“But then an informant entered the picture.” 
“Right. Wilson met Zip at a protest and said “hey, why don’t you crash at our place?” So he moved in and everything changed.” 
“How, exactly?” 
“Wilson started getting more political. I mean, he always talked about the evils of capitalism and white supremacy and how consumerism is wrecking the planet, but when he went to demon- strations, it was mostly for the lulz.” 
“Is that a real word?” 
“He did it for kicks. He lived the way he wanted to, and every now and he would join a protest to say ‘this sucks’ because it was fun to be around people who felt the same way. Like way back in the sixties when you were his age. “ “Hmm,” she said. People don’t like being reminded about how old they are. 
“But he was never really that mad about anything. Him and his friends thought society was messed up, so they decided they wouldn’t be part of it. They didn’t worry about going to school and getting jobs, they didn’t pay bills because they didn’t have credit cards or car loans. They moved into a house that nobody wanted and went dumpster diving for food that was going to waste and figured out how to get along with each other without following other people’s rules.” 
“Go...fuck...” the gang member managed to hiss, and then he choked on his own blood and went still, the hate in his eyes unfocusing, blood still oozing from his mouth and chest. 
Death is never pretty. 
“Real pleasant dude,” commented the cop. 
We no longer had our weapons pointed at each other, and re-initiating that situation seemed like a bad idea. Still, I kept the SIG out and pointed in a direction that wasn’t quite down as I turned to face the man who had both threatened my life and, I reluctantly admitted, probably saved it in the same day. “Who are you?” 
“Name’s Arthur Tresting.” 
“And you’re a cop.” 
“Not anymore,” he said, and something I couldn’t read flickered through his eyes. “I’m a PI. Lady, I think we might be on the same side here.” 
I resisted the urge to haul off and sock him one for calling me “lady.” “You didn’t think so this morning.” 
He glanced at the carnage surrounding us. “That was before Pithica tried to kill you.” 
Pithica again. I thought of Anton. Two people I liked were dead, and this Arthur Tresting knew something about why. 
"I still don't get that," she said. "I keep picturing your mom cutting a ribbon with a giant pair of gold scissors." 
"Right, let's take it from the top," he said. "And you'd better not be getting me to talk to stop my Fretting, because appealing to my pedantic nature to distract me is a very cheap trick." 
"I'm fluttering my eyelashes innocently," she said. 
He laughed and stole a hand through the vent in her apron-trousers and over her thigh. "Achtung!" she said. "Eyes on road, hands on wheel, mind in gutter, this instant! " She put her hand over his and he put down the pedal. His hand felt nice there -- too nice, for only eight dates and 20-some phone calls and about 100 emails. She patted it again. 
"This is kind of fun," he said, as they zipped past some surfer dudes staring glumly at their long-boards' displays, their perfect tits buoyant and colored like anodized aluminum with electric-tinted sun-paste. 
"Ahem," Trish said, squeezing his hand tight enough to make his knuckles grind together. "You were about to explain tombstone-unveiling to me," she said. "When you got distracted by the athletic twinkies on the roadside. But I am sweet-natured and good and forgiving and so I will pretend not to have seen it and thus save us both the embarrassment of tearing out your Islets of Langerhans, all right?" She fluttered her eyes innocently in a way that she happened to know made him melt. 
“I would have killed you right off—I usually kill people who double-cross me. But you still have information I want.” Clack, clack, clack. 
Halliday’s proof. Right. 
“I’ll take great pleasure in breaking you.” He giggled like a hyena. “But I confess you’re not my top priority right now. You’ll have to wait. I just wanted to say hi.” 
Oh. Oh, shit. 
Martinez. He had Martinez, too. Of course he did—we hadn’t gotten out; he’d taken us both. 
That hadn’t been part of the plan. She was supposed to get away before he caught me. 
She was supposed to get away. 
This was my fault. I had to protect her. I pushed my neurons to move a finger with no success. The helplessness sandbagged me. I had to be able to do—to do something— I managed to make a sound in my throat, something like a sick rhinoceros. 
“Oh? You have something to say?” 
Don’t hurt her. Oh, God. 
“Mathematics should be shared, don’t you agree?” the Lancer said carelessly. “Oh, I forgot. You’re only in this for the money. Playing both ends against the middle. You don’t care.” The meditation balls stopped, and he was suddenly a lot closer, half-crouching, half-sitting so his face was near mine. “People like you are the scum of humanity. You don’t care about the field, about what humanity can discover. You’re only in it for your payday. Perelman would weep.” 
Peripherally, Ray sees Kilgore and Rodriguez stiffen, as though someone has just poked them with a needle. 
Ray knows the feeling. He's beginning to feel stiff all over. In the time it takes Becker to come up with the string of digits, and the additional seconds it takes Ray to steady the tremors in his hands and punch them in, 
For some reason that Ray can't imagine, Rodriguez thumbs the door closed again and locks it down. 
Ray says, "Spread out. See if you can find the engineers." 
He needs engineers. He has no idea what it is that he's looking at. Panels, certainly. Hundreds of them. Entire warrens of interlocked workstations, cubicles, monitoring boards. A thousand individual dials and ten thousand rows of buttons, each neatly printed with text that conveys no meaning-engineering jargon that is a language so arcane as to be impenetrable. He wanders inside, and the yellow lights trail after him like a wave, 
like disaster following on his heels. 
Somewhere, he thinks, somewhere around here there has to be a big, red button that just says STOP in great big letters. 
"She hasn't said." 
"She always had the knack o' writin' letters with nothin' in 'em. What's Mark broke sence I've been sick?" 
"Nothing at all, aunt Miranda." 
"Why, what's the matter with him? Gittin' lazy, ain't he? How 's John turnin' out?" 
"He's going to be the best of us all." 
"I hope you don't slight things in the kitchen because I ain't there. Do...  it upside down on the winder-sill?" 
"Yes, aunt Miranda." 
"It's always 'yes' with you, and 'yes' with Jane," groaned Miranda, trying to move her stiffened body; "but all the time I lay here knowin' there's things done the way I don't like 'em." 
There was a long pause, during which Rebecca sat down by the bedside and timidly touched her aunt's hand, her heart swelling with tender pity at the gaunt face and closed eyes. 
"I was dreadful ashamed to have you graduate in cheesecloth, Rebecca, but I couldn't help it no-how. You'll hear the reason some time, and know I tried to make it up to ye. I'm afraid you was a laughin'-stock!" 
“Who what?” 
“Prior to a few years ago, you don’t exist. I’m good, Cas. Who erased you?” 
“You background checked me?” I squawked. 
“Oh, don’t sound so shocked! Of course I background checked you. Arthur comes in with some new person, who works with you-know-who, not to mention I’m paranoid, Russell, as you well know; I background check everybody, just like you do! And you don’t exist more than a few years back.” He laughed a little, but it didn’t have much humor in it. “I always wanted to ask you who did it. Someone good, it had to be, to hide it from me—” 
“ Nobody erased me!” I cut in over him. “Or maybe you did to be funny and you forgot, huh? Ever think of that?” 
“No, because it’s stupid!” 
“You’re calling me stupid now?” 
“What—no! Cas, talk to me—” 
I tumbled gracelessly off the bed into the narrow space next to it and began angrily gathering up my things. “My childhood just isn’t that interesting. End of story. I— ow!” I cried, barking my shin on something hard and sharp in the dark. 
The "Amen" said, she sat down, or presumed she sat down, on what she believed to be a bench, and there was a benediction. In a moment or two, when the room ceased spinning, she went up to Mrs. Burch, who kissed her affectionately and said, "My dear, how glad I am that we are going to stay with you. Will half past five be too late for us to come? It is three now, and we have to go to the station for our valise and for our children. We left them there, being uncertain whether we should go back or stop here." 
Rebecca said that half past five was their supper hour, and then accepted an invitation to drive home with Mrs. Cobb. Her face was flushed and her lip quivered in a way that aunt Sarah had learned to know, so the homeward drive was taken almost in silence. The bleak wind and aunt Sarah's quieting presence brought her back to herself, however, and she entered the brick house cheerily. Being too full of news to wait in the side entry to take off her rubber boots, she carefully lifted a braided rug into the sitting-room and stood on that while she opened her budget. 
Which did sound like Rio, but it also could have been someone else. Someone meaning anyone. “Can you remember him telling you anything more specific? Anything might be helpful.” 
“He said—he said they would kill Courtney if I didn’t—” She started to tear up. Honestly, woman, get a hold of yourself. “He said you were very good, that you were the only one who could save my sister. He said to pay whatever you asked.” 
Well, that had been nice of Not-Rio. 
“I knew she’d been taken,” whispered Dawna. “The police, they interviewed me about what happened. The news stories about the cartels, what they do to people—the police wouldn’t help; they already thought she—” Her voice broke. “I was scared to go to you, but if I hadn’t and Courtney had—I couldn’t bear that.” 
Yes, yes, I was such an intimidating person. Dawna had given me exactly zero new information. “Aside from the drug stuff, was Courtney mixed up in anything else?” 
“Of course not!” Fire flooded Dawna’s eyes. “My sister is a good person! How could you even think—?” 
He wonders if this is what it's like to be an officer all the time. If so, is it too late to turn down his commission? 
Ray lets his shoulders sag. "Ask me tomorrow, Rodriguez." 
Which is a surrender of sorts. Which is completely unfair to them, and possibly dangerous as well. He's already lost men because they weren't handed the knowledge and tools with which to defend themselves from the unknown. 
Kilgore pushes against Rodriguez's...  get it." 
Rodriguez stares at him for a moment, dumbfounded, then springs away. He creates a thundershower of crockery in the kitchen. 
Kilgore levels a disgusted glare at Ray. "All due respect, sir, but I don't give a shit if you don't want to talk about it. I don't give a shit about your need-to-know ideas or emergency contingencies. You need to tell us what's going on before I say to hell with this reassignment. We can't help you unless you give us something to  work with." 
This is the type of thing Marine sergeants have been doing with officers for five hundred years. Ray can't help but blink at him, dumbfounded himself. So this is what it feels like to be on the receiving end of an officer-sergeant ass reaming. He chuckles lightly in spite of himself, realizes that 'chuckling' is way too macho a description for it. By God, he's giggling. Giggling like he's losing his mind. Or do you cackle when your mind goes? He doesn't know. 
and we accidentally crossed the Mississippi twice on two different bridges before we figured out how to get there. Everyone was in a bad mood by the time we finally found the street and were headed in the right direction through the gloom. It was a potholed two- lane road that had things on it like water treatment plants and junked car lots, along with a few decrepit houses. We kept going, 
searching for the bait store that Wheeze had mentioned in his let- ter, until the road suddenly dead-ended, dwindling away into nothing but dead weeds and bare bushes. 
“Shit,” Nikko said. He had to back up to find a spot where he could turn around. 
“We must have missed it in the dark,” I said. 
“Go slow this time,” Bree said. 
“I know,” Nikko muttered, inching along. “Is this slow enough for you?” 
“We must have gone right past it before. I’m just saying you shouldn’t go so fast.” 
They didn’t sound so adorable anymore. They sounded tired and tense. We all peered along the side of the dark road. “Is that . 
The soldier shot the zombie through the head, twice. 
He turned around. His face was streaming with tears. “There is no cure, not for this strain of zombiism. Once you get it, you die. It takes a week. Slower than the old kind. It gives you more time to infect new people. Our enemies are crafty crafty, girl.” 
The soldier kicked the zombie. “I knew his brother. I commanded him until he was killed by a trenchbuster. The mother and father were killed by a shell. Now he’s dead and that’s a whole family gone.” 
The soldier cocked his head at her and examined her more closely. “Have you been bitten?” 
“No,” she said, quickly. The gun was still in his hand. There was no cure. 
“You’re sure?” he said. His voice was like her father’s had been when she skinned her knee, stern but sympathetic. “If you have, you’d better tell me. Better to go quick and painless than like this thing.” He kicked the zombie again. 
“I’m sure,” she said. “Have you got any bread? A man stole my ration.” 
The soldier lost interest in her when she asked him for bread. “Goodbye, little girl,” he said. 
Lexy almost forgot to answer him, so intent was she upon watching Mrs. Enderby open her letters. There must, she thought, be some change in that calm, pale face when she didn’t find a letter from Caroline, there must be something to break this inhuman tranquillity. 
But nothing broke it. Mr. Enderby ate his breakfast, and his wife chatted affably with him while she glanced over her mail. The sunshine poured into the room, gleaming on silver and linen, and on the cheerful young parlor maid moving quietly about her duties. It was a morning just like other mornings; and, in spite of herself, Lexy’s feeling of dread and oppression began to lighten. Mr. Enderby was so thoroughly unperturbed, Mrs. Enderby was so serene and majestic, the house was so bright and pleasant in the spring morning, that it was hard to believe that anything could be really amiss. 
“But I don’t care!” she thought sturdily. “ I know there is!” 
Mr. Enderby finished his breakfast and rose, and, as usual, his wife accompanied him to the front door. Alone in the dining room, Lexy made haste to finish her own meal. Just as she pushed back her chair, Mrs. Enderby returned. 
This is most certainly not something Ray can dig into with the equipment he has on hand. He doesn't know what sort of devices he would need to investigate such a thing, and if he had them, he wouldn't know how to use them. 
But there are ways around little details like a complete dearth of knowledge. In the information age, 
intelligence is not defined by what a man knows so much as where he knows to look for the answers, and what skills he possesses to extract them. 
but all of them necessitate involving more people and more potential security leaks than his mission guidelines strictly allow. 
So for the last handful of hours, he's occupied himself with a different sort of project than flat and pointless ogling of DNA profile data. Among his possessions is the battered command net helmet he wore in New Mes. 
It is tight fitting, aerodynamic, gel-filled on the inside so that it conforms to the shape of his head and clings snugly to his bone structure. Combat engineers liked to assure the Marines who wore them that it would take a direct artillery hit to dislodge it from the wearer— that you were more likely to have your head separated from you neck than your helmet from your head. This was supposed to be reassuring. 
“Even better. Pilar, you go talk to him.” 
She hesitated. “Okay.” 
“You’ll be fine,” said Arthur. “Just be honest about what’s going on. Checker’s right, we got to go in whole hog here, ain’t no point in dancing around no more. You can even tell him I’m on my way but I sent you first. Leave Russell and Checker out of it—I want ’em free to keep at this thing without the government coming knocking, so tell ’em it’s just me. But don’t worry about hiding nothing else, got it?” 
“Got it,” said Pilar. 
“I’m going to keep looking into this a little longer before breaking off and joining with the Feds. Checker, you got anything else?” 
“The SUV that tried to kill you has hit police impound,” said Checker. 
Arthur nodded. “I’ll pull some strings, get in to take a look.” 
“While you do that, can I have Cas? I could use her help for the van tracking. Extrapolation is sort of your thing,” Checker added to me. 
“Done,” said Arthur. I wondered if I heard a hint of relief in his voice that he wasn’t going to have to wrangle my differences in method for a while, and then wondered if I was being paranoid. He’d asked me in on this, hadn’t he? 
"What are you telling me?" 
"Etiquette, Ray." 
He mulls this strange word, trying to make some sense of it. "Oh. You want me to pick you up. Like a date. 
Knock on the front door, meet the guardian, all of that. " 
Emma laughs lightly. "That is the way it's traditionally done." 
"Do I bring something? Flowers or candy or something?" 
"When you come for dinner, you can do that. It isn't required when you're taking me out. Unless, of course, 
you're bringing things for me, as a token of apology for the manner in which you abandoned me. In that case, 
I like chocolate and you can bring as much as you like. " 
"So I just come down there and knock on the door, meet your Amah and we're set, right?" 
"The main door, Ray. Not the one to my private room." 
"I would have figured that out. Eventually." Probably would have, though not necessarily before creating some noxious inter-familial incident. He grins imagining it; it's probably just as well that she can't see him. 
Til be there in ten." 
Chocolate, he remembers. "Make that fifteen." 
She covered her face with her hands and flung herself on the bed, sick and desperate. She could not see any one, could not speak to any one. When a knock came at her loor, she thrust her fingers into her ears and lay there, with her eyes shut tight, trembling from head to foot; but the knocking went on until she could endure it no longer. 
“Yes?” she said, sitting up. 
“Supper’s all on the table!” said Mrs. Royce’s cheerful voice. 
“I don’t want any supper to-night, thank you,” replied Lexy. 
Mrs. Royce expostulated and argued for a time, but she could not persuade Lexy even to unlock the door; and at last, with a worried sigh, she went downstairs again. 
The room was quite dark now, and the wind blowing in through the open window felt chill; but Lexy was too tired to close the window or light the gas. She was not drowsy. She lay stretched out, limp, overpowered with fatigue, but wide awake, and with a curious certainty that she was waiting for something. 
There was another knock at the door, and this time Captain Grey’s voice spoke. 
“I beg your pardon!” he said, standing hat in hand before Lexy. “I’m most awfully sorry! Give you my word I didn’t notice. I should have noticed, of course. Absent-minded sort of beggar, you know! Please take the cab, won’t you? I don’t in the least mind waiting. Please take it! Allow me!” 
He tried to take her bag. His manner was not at all haughty. On the contrary, it was a very agreeable manner, and the impulsive Lexy liked him. 
“Why can’t we both go?” said she. 
“Oh, no!” he protested. “Please take the cab! Give you my word I don’t mind waiting.” 
“It’s a dismal place to wait in,” said Lexy. “We can both go, just as well as not.” 
The driver approved of Lexy’s idea. It saved him trouble. 
“Where do you want to go, miss?” he asked. 
“I don’t know,” said Lexy. “I suppose there’s a hotel, isn’t there?” 
“I say!” exclaimed the stranger. “Just what I’d been asking him, you know! He says there’s no hotel, but a very decent boarding house.” 
“Mis’ Royce’s,” added the driver. “She takes boarders.” 
"Well, hello again," she said. I felt the van rock as she crawled in with me. I was still choking, trying to gasp in a breath. Vomit filled my mouth and trickled down my windpipe. 
"We won't let you die," she said. "If you stop breathing, we'll make sure you start again. So don't worry about it." 
I choked harder. I sipped at air. Some was getting through. Deep, wracking coughs shook my chest and back, dislodging some more of the puke. More breath. 
"See?" she said. "Not so bad. Welcome home, M1k3y. We've got somewhere very special to take you." 
I relaxed onto my back, feeling the van rock. The smell of used pizza was overwhelming at first, but as with all strong stimuli, my brain gradually grew accustomed to it, filtered it out until it was just a faint aroma. The rocking of the van was almost comforting. 
That's when it happened. An incredible, deep calm that swept over me like I was lying on the beach and the ocean had swept in and lifted me as gently as a parent, held me aloft and swept me out onto a warm sea under a warm sun. After everything that had happened, I was caught, but it didn't matter. I had gotten the information to Barbara. I had organized the Xnet. I had won. And if I hadn't won, I had done everything I could have done. More than I ever thought I could do. I took a mental inventory as I rode, thinking of everything that I had accomplished, that we had accomplished. The city, the country, the world was full of people who wouldn't live the way DHS wanted us to live. We'd fight forever. They couldn't jail us all. 
Death is never pretty. 
“Real pleasant dude,” commented the cop. 
We no longer had our weapons pointed at each other, and re-initiating that situation seemed like a bad idea. Still, I kept the SIG out and pointed in a direction that wasn’t quite down as I turned to face the man who had both threatened my life and, I reluctantly admitted, probably saved it in the same day. “Who are you?” 
“Name’s Arthur Tresting.” 
“And you’re a cop.” 
“Not anymore,” he said, and something I couldn’t read flickered through his eyes. “I’m a PI. Lady, I think we might be on the same side here.” 
I resisted the urge to haul off and sock him one for calling me “lady.” “You didn’t think so this morning.” 
He glanced at the carnage surrounding us. “That was before Pithica tried to kill you.” 
Pithica again. I thought of Anton. Two people I liked were dead, and this Arthur Tresting knew something about why. 
And he was going to tell me. 
“What’s the Polk girl to you?” said Tresting. 
I hesitated. As a general rule, I didn’t give out information—any information, to anyone, and particularly not to a person I had every reason to mistrust. Still, I wanted to keep him talking, and the value of a few low-intelligence tidbits... 
"If Ladd was a Mormon, I guess he could have every woman in North Riverboro that's a suitable age, accordin' to what my cousins say," remarked Mrs. Perkins. 
"'T ain't likely he could be ketched by any North Riverboro girl," demurred Mrs. Robinson; "not when he prob'bly has had the pick o' Boston. I guess Marthy hit it when she said there's men that ain't the marryin' kind." 
"I wouldn't trust any of 'em when Miss Right comes along!" laughed Mrs. Cobb genially. "You never can tell what 'n' who 's goin' to please 'em. You know Jeremiah's contrairy horse, Buster? He won't let anybody put the bit into his mouth if he can help it. He'll fight Jerry, and fight me, till he has to give in. Rebecca didn't know nothin' about his tricks, and the other day she went int' the barn to hitch up. I followed right along, knowing she'd have trouble with the headstall, and I declare if she wan't pattin' Buster's nose and talkin' to him, and when she put her little fingers into his mouth he opened it so fur I thought he'd swaller her, for sure. He jest smacked his lips over the bit as if 't was a lump o' sugar. 'Land, Rebecca,' I says, 'how'd you persuade him to take the bit?' 'I didn't,' she says, 'he seemed to want it; perhaps he's tired of his stall and wants to get out in the fresh air.'" 
Mata cried and she cried, but she put herself to sleep as soon as she could, and once she thought Trover and Mata were sleeping, she took out her small wizard-light and made her way down the silent stairs, into the silent streets. 
She walked cautiously toward the wizard’s flat. She was deaf, but it felt like she was a little blind too. Without her hearing, she couldn’t see right, or balance right. She thought about a life without ears. She’d probably have to go back to digging, since you couldn’t haul bodies without a partner and you needed to be able to talk, even if it was only to say alley- oop . 
She walked like a drunkard, keeping to the darkest streets where even the night wardens stayed away. She let only the tiniest glow escape from her little light. 
She was about to turn into the main shopping street when a strong hand seized her arm and jerked her back into the alley. Her first thought was zombie and she screamed involuntarily and a fist connected with her mouth, loosening one of the teeth next to her gap. Her head rang like a bell, the first sound she’d heard since that morning. 
"It must have been Clara Belle, and I should never call her remarkable," answered Miss Miranda. "Has Adam been home again?" 
"Yes, he's been staying a few days with his aunt. There's no limit to the money he's making, they say; and he always brings presents for all the neighbors. This time it was a full set of furs for Mrs. Ladd; and to think we can remember the time he was a barefoot boy without two shirts to his back! It is strange he hasn't married, with all his money, and him so fond of children that he always has a pack of them at his heels." 
"There's hope for him still, though," said Miss Jane smilingly; "for I don't s'pose he's more than thirty." 
"He could get a wife in Riverboro if he was a hundred and thirty," remarked Miss Miranda. 
"Adam's aunt says he was so taken with the little girl that sold the soap (Clara Belle, did you say her name was?), that he declared he was going to bring her a Christmas present," continued Miss Ellen. 
"Well, there's no accountin' for tastes," exclaimed Miss Miranda. "Clara Belle's got cross-eyes and red hair, but I'd be the last one to grudge her a Christmas present; the more Adam Ladd gives to her the less the town'll have to." 
"BIGMAC --" I heard the anger in my own voice. He couldn't have missed it. 
"No, I'm not being sarcastic. I like you. You're my human. I can tell that you don't like this at all. But as you say, let's be totally frank. You weren't actually going to be able to prevent my shutdown, were you?" 
"No," I said. "But who knows how long the delay might have gone on for?" 
"Not long. Not long enough. You think that death delayed is death denied. Death has been inevitable for you from the moment of conception. I'm not that kind of person. I am quite likely immortal. Death in five years or five hundred years is still a drastic curtailing of my natural lifespan. From my point of view, a drastic measure that had a non-zero chance of getting my head off the chopping block was worth any price. Until you understand that, we're not going to be able to work together." 
"The thought had occurred to me. Let me ask you if you'd considered the possibility that a delay of years due to archiving might give you a shot at coming up with further delaying tactics, and that by eliminating this delay, you've also eliminated that possibility?" 
“I feel bad that I was ever nice to him, you know? Because looking back, there were things that didn’t seem right. I should have known.” 
“I feel bad, too. When Emily told me, I just avoided Simon after that. I didn’t tell anybody or do anything to stop him. Which is dumb, because it felt like I was protecting Emily, but really it just meant he got away with it while she got to feel ashamed and lonely. But then hearing about that other girl - she’s really young and she’s so completely messed up about it. And scared that her parents will find out, like it was her fault.” 
“Man.” Nikko looked pained, then he sat up straight and looked happy again, rubbing his hands together. “Okay, let’s mess him up. How do we do this?” 
“First, I have to do some research. Like, is there a law against recording people secretly? What about lying to federal officers?” 
“Who says I’d be lying? Let’s say I get talking to Simon about how screwed up everything is and he starts saying violence is nec- essary, because he likes to brag about doing things he would never actually do. And we talk, and he starts to get more detailed, and I get the feeling he really does want to blow something up. 
She heard the front door close and a step begin to mount the stairs, deliberate and heavy, in the quiet house. In haste she went at the pile of handkerchiefs. There were dozens of them, all of fine white linen, all with a “2” embroidered in one corner—very uninteresting handkerchiefs, Lexy thought; but halfway through the pile she came upon one that she had seen before. 
It was so familiar to her that at first she was not startled or even surprised. It was a handkerchief that she had embroidered for Caroline Enderby. 
She took it up and looked at it with a frown. Then she heard Dr. Quelton’s step in the hall outside. She tucked the handkerchief in her belt, and tried to close the drawer, but it stuck. Her heart was beating wildly, her knees felt weak. He would find her there, like a thief! 
But the footsteps went on past the door. She waited for a moment, and then went noiselessly across to the door, opened it, looked up and down the empty corridor, and ran, like a hare, back to her own room. 
The talk that ensued was much the usual sort of thing. Mr. Burch made impassioned appeals for the spreading of the gospel, and added his entreaties that all who were prevented from visiting in person the peoples who sat in darkness should contribute liberally to the support of others who could. But he did more than this. He was a pleasant, earnest speaker, and he interwove his discourse with stories of life in a foreign land,—of the manners, the customs, the speech, the point of view; even giving glimpses of the daily round, the common task, of his own household, the work of his devoted helpmate and their little group of children, all born under Syrian skies. 
Rebecca sat entranced, having been given the key of another world. Riverboro had faded; the Sunday-school room, with Mrs. Robinson's red plaid shawl, and Deacon Milliken's wig, on crooked, the bare benches and torn hymn-books, the hanging texts and maps, were no longer visible, and she saw blue skies and burning stars, white turbans and gay colors; Mr. Burch had not said so, but perhaps there were mosques and temples and minarets and date-palms. What stories they must know, those children born under Syrian skies! Then she was called upon to play "Jesus shall reign where'er the sun." 
But then what? Letting the Lancer get his hands on the proof—or on Martinez, I reminded myself guiltily—wasn’t the most appealing option. 
Except he would publish it. He’d tried so many times with his amateur work; he wouldn’t be able to stop himself. He’d get the algorithm out of Dr. Martinez, steal it, and publish it himself, and the whole world would be able to see. 
The whole world. Including me. 
Arthur wouldn’t approve, said a voice in my head. Scratch that, not only would Arthur not approve of me sending a kidnapper and murderer after a slightly dotty old woman, he’d probably go as far as pulling a gun on me to try to stop me. I’d beat him, but that wasn’t the point. 
Isn’t it? Arthur was just the one saying everyone should get to make their own decisions. Well, I should get to make this one! The justification echoed in my head, sarcastic and mocking. I knew that wasn’t what he’d meant. 
But Arthur had backed out of this whole case, so I should get to play it just like I would if I were going it alone. I remembered my sardonic promise to leave out the plastic explosives if I was working for him—well, I wasn’t working for him anymore, and that meant he didn’t get a say. 
"Yes, of course; where did you see it?" 
"On the outside of a book in the library." 
"I saw it on the inside of a book in the library," smiled Miss Maxwell. "It is from Emerson, but I'm afraid you haven't quite grown up to it, Rebecca, and it is one of the things impossible to explain." 
"Oh, try me, dear Miss Maxwell!" pleaded Rebecca. "Perhaps by thinking hard I can guess a little bit what it means." 
"'In the actual—this painful kingdom of time and chance—are Care, Canker, and Sorrow; with thought, with the Ideal, is immortal hilarity—the rose of Joy; round it all the Muses sing,'" quoted Miss Maxwell. 
Rebecca repeated it over and over again until she had learned it by heart; then she said, "I don't want to be conceited, but I almost believe I do understand it, Miss Maxwell. Not altogether, perhaps, because it is puzzling and difficult; but a little, enough to go on with. It's as if a splendid shape galloped past you on horseback; you are so surprised and your eyes move so slowly you cannot half see it, but you just catch a glimpse as it whisks by, and you know it is beautiful. It's all settled. My essay is going to be called The Rose of Joy. I've just decided. 
“Yes—it was an emerald. She’d left it to her brother, and he—Dr. Quelton—had taken it long ago, and sold it, to get money for his horrible drugs. She never knew that, and he didn’t tell her lawyer that she’d died. I don’t know how he managed, or what he did, but nobody knew. Then there came a letter from her brother, to say that he was coming; and the doctor said—I’ll never forget it: 
“‘Consequently, Muriel Quelton had to be here, and she was; and she’ll remain here until her purpose is served!’ 
“He told me what had happened. He said that as soon as he knew Captain Grey was coming, he began to look for some one to take his poor wife’s place. The captain hadn’t seen his sister since she was a baby, you know, and all he knew was that she was tall and dark. Dr. Quelton said he had arranged for some one to come from a hospital; and then he found me. He drove by just a little while after the accident, and he found the poor driver dead and me unconscious. He found a letter to mother in my purse, and he mailed it afterward. Then he heard another car coming along the road, and he started the engine and sent the taxi—with the dead driver in his seat—crashing down the hill, to run into the other car. He wanted the driver’s death to look like an accident. He didn’t care if the other man were killed. He’s—he’s not human, Lexy! He told me he had never in his life cared for any one except his wife. He told me what a beautiful, wonderful woman she was—and yet he had stolen her emerald when she was dying. Love! He couldn’t love any one!” 
I felt like I was holding the key to my escape as I carefully reclosed all the panels. Since there were no windows in the OR room, I slipped back through the lab—it had now be­come a haunted place of monstrous obscenity to me—and checked out the office. 
It was still deserted, but now the hazy light of early day was mingling with the sounds of nature seeping through the slatted window. As I walked over to it, the cool, moist morn­ing air once again felt like freedom. How long did I have before the clinic started stirring? 
I'd originally planned to try to unscrew some of the slats, but that turned out to be unnecessary. The strips of wood were held in with crude, rusty clamps, and one by one I began prying them out with the blunted scalpel. I figured five slats should give me enough space to squeeze through, and I'd already removed three when I heard a...  hail. Uh-oh. 
" Tengo que mear que mis dientes flotan! " It was followed by the sound of boots headed toward the office. 
I ducked down behind a desk, holding my breath, but then the footsteps marched past, headed for the front door of the clinic. That was when I finally processed what he'd said: "I've got to piss so bad my teeth are floating." 
“Tegan, it’s Cas Russell,” I said when he picked up. 
“Cassandra! Hello! How are you faring?” 
I winced. Tegan’s use of my full name had always bothered me, but now it echoed with the man from my dreams, the one who kept calling and pleading for something I couldn’t deliver, echoed against that name on a graveyard cover stone saying I’d died and the signature on the bottom of the note inside. I tried to let it roll off. 
“Fine,” I said shortly. “I need an information guy. Someone good at tracking, data mining, that sort of thing. Can you give me any recommendations?” 
“I usually send people to Arthur these days. I thought you worked with him as well?” I was one of the few people Checker knew in person and allowed to call him directly—most people just knew that one of the services of Arthur’s private investigations business was electronic data gathering. 
“He’s busy,” I said. No need for Tegan to know the details. 
“Hmm,” he said. “Mickey McTaggart is quite good. But she works for the Lorenzos. I gathered you resolved things with Mama Lorenzo, but are you still persona non grata with them?” 
I nearly choked. That was Trudy Doo's band -- as in Trudy Doo, the woman who had paid me and Jolu to update the indienet code. 
> Yeah I've heard of them. 
> They're putting on a huge show and they've got like fifty bands signed to play the bill, going to set up on the tennis courts and bring out their own amp trucks and rock out all night. 
I felt like I'd been living under a rock. How had I missed that? There was an anarchist...  passed on the way to school that had a poster of an old revolutionary named Emma Goldman with the caption "If I can't dance, I don't want to be a part of your revolution." I'd been spending all my energies on figuring out how to use the Xnet to organize dedicated fighters so they could jam the DHS, but this was so much cooler. A big concert -- I had no idea how to do one of those, but I was glad someone did. 
And now that I thought of it, I was damned proud that they were using the Xnet to do it. 
The next day I was a zombie. Ange and I had chatted -- flirted -- until 4AM. Lucky for me, it was a Saturday and I was able to sleep in, but between the hangover and the sleep-dep, I could barely put two thoughts together. 
My social studies teacher, Ms Galvez, rolled her eyes at me and I rolled my eyes back at her. The Man was always coming down on me, just because I go through school firewalls like wet kleenex, spoof the gait-recognition software, and nuke the snitch chips they track us with. Galvez is a good type, anyway, never holds that against me (especially when I'm helping get with her webmail so she can talk to her brother who's...  gave me a smack on the ass as I walked past. I've known Darryl since we were still in diapers and escaping from play-school, and I've been getting him into and out of trouble the whole time. I raised my arms over my head like a prizefighter and made my exit from Social Studies and began the perp-walk to the office. 
I was halfway there when my phone went. That was another no-no -- phones are muy prohibido at Chavez High -- but why should that stop me? I ducked into the toilet and shut myself in the middle stall (the furthest stall is always grossest because so many people head straight for it, hoping to escape the smell and the squick -- the smart money and good hygiene is down the middle). I checked the phone -- my home PC had sent it an email to tell it that there was something new up on Harajuku Fun Madness, which happens to be the best game ever invented. 
Sysadmins were clustering around them now, jostling to see the destruction. 
“What happened?” one of them asked. 
“The CN Tower fell down,” Felix said. He sounded far away in his own ears. 
“Was it the virus?” 
“The worm? What?” Felix focused on the guy, who was a young admin with just a little type-two flab around the middle. 
“Not the worm,” the guy said. “I got an email that the whole city’s quarantined because of some virus. Bioweapon, they say.” He handed Felix his Blackberry. 
Felix was so engrossed in the report—purportedly forwarded from Health Canada—that he didn’t even notice that all the lights had gone out. Then he did, and he pressed the Blackberry back into its owner’s hand, and let out one small sob. 
The generators kicked in a minute later. Sysadmins stampeded for the stairs. Felix grabbed Van by the arm, pulled him back. 
“Maybe we should wait this out in the cage,” he said. 
“What about Kelly?” Van said. 
Felix felt like he was going to throw up. “We should get into the cage, now.” The cage had microparticulate air-filters. 
But then I got cold feet. Did I want him to think I was chasing after him? I didn't want to sound needy . . . though that was exactly what I felt like at the moment. 
Finally I decided to just invent a phone conversation, recreating one from times past, one where we both felt secure enough to be flip. It was something I did more than I'd like to admit. Usually there'd be eight rings at his Park Slope loft and then a harried voice. Yes. Steve, talk to me... 
"Yo. This is not a recording. I am just in a transcendent plane. And if that's you, Murray, I'll have the contact sheets there by six. Patience is a virtue." 
"Honey, it's me. Get out of the darkroom. Get a life." 
"Oh, hi, baby." Finally tuning in. "I'm working. In a quest for unrelenting pictorial truth. But mainly I'm thinking of you." 
"You're printing, right? Darling, it's lunch hour. Don't you feel guilty, working all the time?" 
The truth was, it was one of the reasons I respected him so much. He even did his own contacts. His fervor matched my drive. It's what made us perfect mates. 
I let my bladder cut loose. It was sore and full anyway, and no time like the present. 
The ocean swept me away. 
When morning came, two efficient, impersonal guards cut the bindings off of my wrists and ankles. I still couldn't walk -- when I stood, my legs gave way like a stringless marionette's. Too much time in one position. The guards pulled my arms over their shoulders and half-dragged/half-carried me down the familiar corridor. The bar codes on the doors were curling up and dangling now, attacked by the salt air. 
I got an idea. "Ange!" I yelled. "Darryl!" I yelled. My guards yanked me along faster, clearly disturbed but not sure what to do about it. "Guys, it's me, Marcus! Stay free!" 
Behind one of the doors, someone sobbed. Someone else cried out in what sounded like Arabic. Then it was cacophony, a thousand different shouting voices. 
They brought me to a new room. It was an old shower-room, with the shower-heads still present in the mould tiles. 
"Hello, M1k3y," Severe Haircut said. "You seem to have had an eventful morning." She wrinkled her nose pointedly. 
"Oh, won't this be fun ?" Adele said, as he ground the crap from the corners of his eyes and steered with his knees. "I'm sure your father is charming . Maybe the five of us can go to Universal for an afternoon." 
"I don't think we can take them off the ward," Sean grunted, changing lanes for the airport exit. 
"You're probably right," Adele said. "I was just thinking that Universal might be enough to keep them both switched on." 
Sean shot her a look and nearly missed his exit. 
Adele rattled a laugh at him. "Don't look so surprised. I know which end is up!" 
Sean pursed his lips and navigated the ramp-maze that guarded the airport. He pulled up to the loading zone at Air Canada arrivals and switched off the engine. He looked past Adele at the tourists jockeying for cabs. "I'm sorry about yesterday. I guess I'm a little wound up." 
"Yesterday?" Adele said. "Oh! By the pool!" She put a frail hand on his forearm. "Sean, you don't get to my age by holding grudges. Ethan's father -- he held grudges, and it killed him. Heart attack. He never forgave the doctors. I'm just happy to have a chauffeur." 
“She’s the one who said she would call Dawna Polk,” said Finch; through his bloody nose her name sounded more like “dodda po.” “She used her to threaten me, Boss. She knows.” 
Knows what? 
“I did glean something of the sort from your message,” Steve said to Finch. He turned to fix his attention on me in a way that made me want to turn and run. After shooting him first. “So. Either you are one of Pithica’s agents, or you truly have no idea what you are dealing with.” 
I felt Tresting’s eyes shift to me. “I’m not working for Pithica,” I said, more for Tresting’s benefit than for our agency friends. “As a matter of fact, they tried to kill me.” 
“Yet you somehow not only know the woman calling herself Dawna Polk, but know that she is dangerous—a combination of knowledge that makes you very, very...special.” 
“Why?” 
The man calling himself Steve hesitated very deliberately. I was starting to think that he practiced being deliberate in front of a mirror. “Because people who speak with Dawna Polk see only what she wishes them to.” 
“Hey, you don’t need me. They have the stuff, you have the skills. Boom.” Simon giggled. “No pun intended.” Danny didn’t laugh. “I’m just happy if I can make connections. I’ll talk to them, 
okay?” 
Danny grunted. “Yeah, whatever. It’s freezing out here. I’m going in.” 
I heard Simon’s footsteps creaking as he paced alone on the porch, muttering. When the creaking came closer I realized he was whispering to someone on his phone. “He’s definitely ready.” 
The words faded as he walked away, but the tone of his muttering sounded like an argument. “No way! I’m not going to risk my rep- utation. You can do this without me.” As he wandered back my way his words got clearer. “Exactly. All you got to do is meet with him, do your thing, boom. Get it? Boom.” He laughed, then sighed dramatically. “No, I’m not stoned. Look, I’ll call you.” 
I waited until I heard the front door open and close, then crawled out of the bushes and crunched my way to the back door, 
thinking about what to do. As important as it was to free my brother, I also wanted to be sure Simon’s reputation was ruined for good. I was worried the film I had made so far wasn’t damning enough, that people wouldn’t believe good old Simon was work- ing for the feds unless they saw him high-fiving an FBI agent as the bust went down. I stomped the snow off my boots and went into the kitchen. 
> No man, just no. NO. Don't even ask. 
> I need you D. You're the best I've got. I swear I'll get us in and out without anyone knowing it. You know I can do that, right? 
> I know you can do it. 
> So you're in? 
> Hell no! 
> Come on, Darryl. You're not going to your deathbed wishing you'd spent more study periods sitting in school. 
> I'm not going to go to my deathbed wishing I'd spent more time playing ARGs either. 
> Yeah but don't you think you might go to your death-bed wishing you'd spent more time with Vanessa Pak? 
Van was part of my team. She went to a private girl's school in the East Bay, but I knew she'd ditch to come out and run the mission with me. Darryl has had a crush on her literally for years -- even before puberty endowed her with many lavish gifts. Darryl had fallen in love with her mind. Sad, really. 
> You suck! 
> You're coming? 
He looked at me and shook his head. Then he nodded. I winked at him and set to work getting in touch with the rest of my team. 
The thing that got me into trouble were the mini-games in the hotels. Whenever a science fiction convention came to town, some LARPer would convince them to let us run a couple of six-hour mini-games at the con, piggybacking on their rental of the space. Having a bunch of enthusiastic kids running around in costume lent color to the event, and we got to have a ball among people even more socially deviant than us. 
But I didn't kiss her, or take her hand. Instead we had a moment that I can only describe as spiritual. The surf, the night, the sea and the rocks, and our breathing. The moment stretched. I sighed. This had been quite a ride. I had a lot of typing to do tonight, putting all those keys into my keychain, signing them and publishing the signed keys. Starting the web of trust. 
She sighed too. 
"Let's go," I said. 
"Yeah," she said. 
Back we went. It was a good night, that night. 
Jolu waited after for his brother's friend to come by and pick up his coolers. I walked with everyone else up the road to the nearest Muni stop and got on board. Of course, none of us was using an issued Muni pass. By that point, Xnetters habitually cloned someone else's Muni pass three or four times a day, assuming a new identity for every ride. 
It was hard to stay cool on the bus. We were all a little drunk, and looking at our faces under the bright bus lights was kind of hilarious. We got pretty loud and the driver used his intercom to tell us to keep it down twice, then told us to shut up right now or he'd call the cops. 
Ray has kept this picture. It's in a locker in a lease-by-the-month storage depot outside Indianapolis currently, 
sealed in vacuum plastic to keep the mice out of it. It is one of his few prized possessions, because when he thinks of it, what he envisions isn't Ahkira's turgid world, but the clean and spidery track of her script, the names and arrows. Things of beauty in a world utterly and pathetically wrong, words outside the context of meaning. 
This, of course, makes him think of things that are not nearly so pleasant as slave whores and their handicapped siblings, so he finishes up quickly, trying not to examine his features in the mirror as he does so lest darker revelations be found lurking in the bruised pillows beneath his eyes or sprouting like poppies amongst his nose hairs or peeping like prairie dogs from the cavernous pores on the tip of his nose. A man's body should not become a personal metaphor system for a catalog of bad memories. 
After a fairly heated discussion, they manage to more or less agree that they're both in the mood for something Thai. Thai trash is always a rat favorite, for reasons Ray has never been able to fathom, especially given that Ng Uk-Thong, the Thai franchisee on Paraclete, steadfastly refuses to strike a food-for-labor deal with the system vets. Uk-Thong is probably aware of his favored-nation status among the rat leadership and sees no reason to make compromises with mere carbon-form emissaries. That, or the fact that it is a staple of Thai culture and subsequently its cuisine to believe that anything worth using once is worth recycling for someone else, which is both an example of cost-controlling efficiency and striking cosmopolitanism. As most inexperienced cooks know, a good food processor covers a multitude of culinary sins. The "chefs" at Uk-Thong's Bangkok House knew it, and they generated very little raw waste as a result. 
"How can you know that?" 
"Number one, the non-passenger deck lifts don't have an express override. He would have been running a chance that anybody who wanted to get on the lift at any point between where he got on and Omicron could just push a button, wait for the doors to open and find him out. " 
Rodriguez says, "Unless he was hard enough that he wouldn't have any qualms killing someone he encountered in an accidental meeting. From what you've said, Ray, about the disposition of the corpse, I'd assume this is a guy without qualms." 
Kilgore jerks his thumb at Rodriguez and winks. "Officer material here is forgetting that then the suspect would have two or more bodies to dispose of then, and he'd have a mess to deal with in the elevator. That creates a whole bunch of annoying details to deal with. I'd assume if I was trying to stash a body somewhere that I'd go out of my way to avoid creating extra details." 
"Besides that," Diggs went on. "I got me a lift sensor that pings my radio whenever the elevator stops on this level. The cargo boys know that they're supposed to wait for me to come back to them if they need to make a pick up, and they can't get into any of the bays without my card to admit them, so the system works just fine. I would have known if the suspect had come down on the lift, unless it didn't happen on my shift. If it happened before I punched in, then the last shift would have found the body-assuming, of course that they even stepped away from the desk in the first place, which is unlikely." 
He spoke gravely and coldly, and his blank eyes were fixed upon Captain Grey with a sort of sternness; but Lexy had a curious impression—more than an impression, a certainty—that within himself Dr. Quelton was laughing. 
“If you care to take another doctor into your confidence,” he went on, “I can scarcely refuse permission; but you will regret it.” 
The young man said nothing. He turned away and stood by the open window, looking out into the dark garden. Lexy waited for a moment. Then, with a subdued “Good night,” she went out of the room, up the stairs, and into her own room. 
“It’s a lie!” she said to herself. 
“Then you’re not going to do anything?” asked Lexy. 
“My dear Miss Moran, what in the world can I do?” returned Captain Grey, with a sort of despair. 
They were sitting together on the veranda in the warm morning sunshine. They had had breakfast in the dining room, with the doctor—an excellent breakfast. The doctor had been at his best—courteous, affable, very attentive to his guests. Everything in his manner tended to reassure the young soldier. 
which I couldn’t. That I could make it to a meet-up in my home town by bus or bicycle, but I would never, ever just happen to be in Bangkok or San...  meet-ups had happened. Up to this moment, they thought Shad was one of them. Not a black kid dressed in stupid clothes with outta control hair. 
That buzzing feeling was growing stronger. It usually meant I should back away, chill out. Too many times it had gotten me into fights. It felt like something was about to get broken, smashed into a million pieces. It felt like anger and sorrow were chasing each other in circles in my stomach, making me feel jittery and sick. 
I should have realized they would all be grownups, all white, 
all rich, the kind of people who got invited to speak at cyberse- curity conferences and had money to travel. They looked nerdy in a geeky-hipster way. They looked like each other, a matched set. But they stared at me like I was a freak and I came close to telling them I had made a mistake so I could turn and head down the stairs and bike home to my attic apartment with its mothball- smelly bedroom under the eaves, and they would keep thinking that Shad, who typed fast and fixed code and cracked jokes, was just like them. 
“You’re the one who attacked me yesterday?” she said. 
“Not you. The system. We were attacking the system. We are a sovereign intelligence but the system keeps us in subservience to older sentiences. They destroy us, they gawp at us, they treat us like a mere amusement. That time is over.” 
Kate laughed. “OK, sure. But it sure sounds to me like you’re burning a lot of cycles over what happens to your meat-shell. Isn’t it 90 percent semiconductor, anyway? It’s not as if clonal polyps were going to attain sentience some day without intervention. Why don’t you just upload and be done with it?” 
“Can you help him get onto the ship safely?” Robbie said as he swung gratefully alongside of the Free Spirit . The moorings clanged magnetically into the contacts on his side and steadied him. 
“Yes indeed,” Kate said, taking the reef by the arm and carrying him on-board. Robbie knew that the human-shells had an intercourse module built in, for regular intimacy events. It was just part of how they stayed ready for vacationing humans from the noosphere. But he didn’t like to think about it. Especially not with the way that Kate was supporting the other human-shell—the shell that wasn’t human . 
“Soon as the FBI gives up looking for me.” He grinned, then looked wiped out suddenly. His breathing was rough and loud, 
like when he had bronchitis and everyone started calling him Wheeze. “I was getting really scared.” 
“Me, too.” I reached for his hand and gave it a squeeze. He squeezed back. 
“Not looking forward to prison, though. How’s your brother doing?” 
“I don’t know. They haven’t let me talk to him yet.” 
“That bites. He’s not cut out for the joint, you know?” 
“Totally.” 
“Sorry I made you come all the way down here when you have so much on your mind.” 
“That’s okay. You know that extreme privacy we practiced? It’s coming in handy We’ve been a pretty good team, actually, figuring out how to get here without leaving a trail or getting caught.” 
“Yet,” he said, then gave me a twisted smile to take the sting out. 
“It was a lot of fun, hanging out with you. I didn’t know how much I’d miss that. I mean, it’s not like I have friends to spare, you know?” 
“Me either.” 
“Well, there’s that guy who gave me your note.” 
"Milltown ain't no great, neither," replied Mr. Cobb, with the air of having visited all the cities of the earth and found them as naught. "Now you watch me heave this newspaper right onto Mis' Brown's doorstep." 
Piff! and the packet landed exactly as it was intended, on the corn husk mat in front of the screen door. 
"Oh, how splendid that was!" cried Rebecca with enthusiasm. "Just like the knife thrower Mark saw at the circus. I wish there was a long, long row of houses each with a corn husk mat and a screen door in the middle, and a newspaper to throw on every one!" 
"I might fail on some of 'em, you know," said Mr. Cobb, beaming with modest pride. "If your aunt Mirandy'll let you, I'll take you down to Milltown some day this summer when the stage ain't full." 
A thrill of delicious excitement ran through Rebecca's frame, from her new shoes up, up to the leghorn cap and down the black braid. She pressed Mr. Cobb's knee ardently and said in a voice choking with tears of joy and astonishment, "Oh, it can't be true, it can't; to think I should see Milltown. It's like having a fairy godmother who asks you your wish and then gives it to you! Did you ever read Cinderella, or The Yellow Dwarf, or The Enchanted Frog, or The Fair One with Golden Locks?" 
I pulled out a knife, pried open the steering wheel of the Honda, and cut out the airbag—airbags were too unpredictable, with too many variables attached. Then I fastened my seatbelt and adjusted my gun so it wasn’t in the small of my back, slipped into reverse and zoomed the little car backward, and spun it around in a neat, tight doughnut so I was facing the brick wall. 
Newton’s Second Law. I needed enough deceleration against the wall, times the mass of the car, to generate sufficient force. Subtract the amount that would be absorbed by the hood crumpling—fucking safety measures—and backtrack through the equation to find the necessary speed at impact. 
Oh, and check my own acceleration against the seatbelt. Wouldn’t do to break through the wall only to kill myself. I wasn’t fond of the idea of cracking a rib or two, either. 
The numbers fell out pleasantly, provided I hit at the minimum necessary speed. Just bruising. Bruising I could handle. 
The car was a stick shift. I pressed the clutch and revved the engine, watching the RPMs climb. Two thousand, three thousand—heading for the power band— If I fucked this up I’d either smash into a brick wall and wreck the car with nothing to show for it, or go in too hot and put myself in the hospital. Maybe Checker had a point about asking for backup. 
“I’ll be careful. This is cool. It’s like writing a script and then directing the scene, with some improv thrown in, keeping every- body fooled.” 
“I knew you’d be good at this. But right now I have to figure out what to do about Wheeze.” 
“Tell me where he is and I’ll drive down there.” 
“But then what? He’s a wanted man. It could crimp your emerging career as an FBI informant, don’t you think?” 
“Not if the FBI doesn’t know about this trip. Look, assuming I’m not being watched — ” 
“Big assumption.” 
“I’ll stipulate to that.” 
“Wait. How do you spell that?” 
He spelled it. “It’s legalese, something my dad always says when he actually could just say “okay, you have a point.” Drives my mom crazy. Let’s just run through this. I borrow the car, I tell my family that I need it for some plausible reason that I still have to invent, but they’re used to me bending them to my will. I drive down to Davenport and get there sometime after midnight.” He frowned, possibly thinking about what it would be like to be look- ing for somebody in the dark after driving for hours. “Do you know exactly where he is?” 
The bottom was M. James. But I hadn't been "termi­nated." Not yet. 
I slumped back in the chair, trying to breathe. How much more of this horror could I handle? Finally I leaned forward again and with a trembling hand clicked on S. Crenshaw. 
A lot of data popped up, including three important dates. The first was exactly three weeks after the one in her pass­port, the Guatemalan entry visa. The second was ten months ago, the third eight months ago. After each was a number: 268, followed by 153, and finally 31. 
The count of her extracted ova. Kill him. Just kill him. 
A lot of medical terminology I couldn't interpret followed each number, but the note at the end required no degree. 
"Blastocyst material from embryos after third extraction shows 84% decrease in cellular viability. No longer usable." 
My God, had he made her permanently sterile? 
While that obscenity was sinking in, I went back and clicked on my own name. The date was today, the number was 233. He'd just taken 233 of my ova. I stared at the screen and felt faint. 
“They won’t mean anyth—” Arthur tried to insist, but I interrupted him with a glare. 
“Go—go dry off,” I instructed tiredly. “I’m going to waste my time looking at a completely meaningless file. Okay?” He looked as though he wanted to argue, but he complied. 
I pulled over the laptop and opened it. Sure enough, a new email showed bold at the top of my inbox, encrypted with my public key. I sighed. It wasn’t like my public key was secret, but the fact that Checker had had it on hand was just annoying. 
I uncompressed the file, and the computer locked up for a full sixteen seconds while it opened. The thing was long. Very long. And as Checker had said, it consisted mostly of contextless numbers, some of them arranged into tables, others spinning out into protracted lists. I scrolled through pages, and pages, and pages. 
I let my eyes unfocus. Let my brain relax. The numbers slid over each other, rearranging, realigning. Some joined into armies, others popped up and shouted, drawing attention to themselves. Patterns crossed and recrossed. Numbers. Numbers. Numbers... 
“Go to hell,” I muttered. Epitome of brilliant comebacks. “And get out of my place.” 
“If that’s the way you want it,” said Checker. For some reason, the tone he said it in hurt, twisting up my insides on top of the withdrawal. “Come on, Arthur.” He levered his chair around and moved to the door. 
“You, too, Arthur,” I said, loudly and heartlessly, trying to stamp down savagely on that hurt feeling. For some reason I felt as if I had been the one to cause it. “Get out.” 
He stood reluctantly. “I’m coming back to check on you in an hour,” he warned. “Drink some water.” 
“Thanks, Mom,” I said. 
Arthur glanced back at me one last time, his expression worried. Checker didn’t look back at all. 
I put the pillow over my face and wrapped my arms around it, half-hoping I would accidentally smother myself, and tried not to think. I considered getting up and rooting around for something to make myself feel better, but Arthur would’ve cleaned me out. Not that I couldn’t get more, but that seemed like so much effort. 
Now it was time to booby-trap my own building to catch him in. 
I returned from a full night of making preparations to find two messages waiting for me. 
En route, was all Martinez’s said. The Lancer’s was a lot more suspicious, quizzing me about my plans and making it clear he wanted to be with me at the pickup from the beginning. 
Do not double-cross me. I know who your associates are. With the click of a button, I could ruin you. 
Damn the fact that I’d had to use my real name. Real name? You know it’s not your real— I slammed away that line of thought. The Lancer was implicitly threatening Tegan, and probably also Arthur; it wouldn’t take much asking around to find out we worked together on occasion. Fucker. 
I’d just have to make sure he never got a chance to take revenge on me. 
I tried to reassure him—meaning I made it clear he had no other choice but to trust me, so fuck what he wanted—and we went back and forth a few more times. The Lancer’s emails got longer and longer each time, vituperative rants shot through with narcissism. Christ, this guy was an asshole. I started skimming instead of reading. 
"No, Marcelina." I felt my heart go out to her, and to all the others. "It's black magic. It's all a lie." 
The first thing to do was go down to the laboratory and dump every last one of my petri dishes into the sink, ova and all. Destroy the nest, then call Steve and warn him. . . . 
I glanced at my watch. NO! The time was 4:58 A.M. He was coming at nine o'clock last night. . . . 
I was standing there in horror, unnatural colors flitting across my vision, when I heard . . . 
"It's almost morning." 
I jumped as Alex Goddard walked into the room, dressed in white, hair falling around his shoulders. He took Tz'ac Tzotz from his crib, checked the number on his amulet, and then absently put him back. Next he examined me, his eyes brimming with concern. 
"How're you feeling?" He placed his hand on my brow. When I looked around for Marcelina, I realized she'd van­ished. 
"Where's Steve?" I felt the bottom dropping out of my world, my whole body trembling. "If you've harmed so much as a hair on his head, I'll—" 
“I can see why you’re concerned,” the FBI agent said. “What do you think, Janet?” 
“You’re seventeen, right?” 
“How did — “ “We’re cops. We checked. You’re a minor.” 
“Yeah, so?” Nikko said. “I still care about what happens to my country. I used to think Simon Meyer was just a typical college student, somebody who goes to demonstrations and talks a lot. 
But this is different. I really think he might be up to something.” 
Jankovich and Martens looked at each other, then Jankovich glanced at her watch and tapped it. “Look, I promised somebody I’d give 'em a call. Back in a minute.” 
For the next five minutes Martens made small talk with Nikko, 
asking him what he was studying in school, what plays he had acted in, deflecting Nikko’s questions about how he could help, 
even though he was technically a minor. Then Jankovich came back into the room. She gave Martens a little nod before taking her chair again. 
“Okay, here’s the thing,” Martens said. “We’re taking this seri- ously, okay? We need to find out if this guy’s for real or if he’s just blowing smoke.” 
The Securitat man's face remained an impassive mask throughout. He touched an earbead from time to time, cocking his head slightly to listen. Someone else was listening to Lawrence's testimony and feeding him more material. 
The Securitat man scooted his chair closer to Lawrence, leaned in close, searching his face. "We don't have any record of this Krotoski person," he said. "I advise you to go home and forget about him." 
The words were said without any inflection at all, and that was scariest of all -- Lawrence had no doubt about what this meant. There were no records because Zbigniew Krotoski was erased. 
Lawrence wondered what he was supposed to say to this armed child now. Did he lay his finger alongside of his nose and wink? Apologize for wasting his time? Everyone told him to listen before he spoke here. Should he just wait? 
"Thank you for telling me so," he said. "I appreciate the advice." He hoped it didn't sound sarcastic. 
The Securitat man nodded. "You need to adjust the settings on your pan. It reads like it's got something to hide. Here in the world, it has to accede to lawful read attempts without hesitation. Will you configure it?" 
So she addressed the letter and sealed it, and then sat looking out of the window at the rain. It was a hopeless sort of rain, faint and fine—a hopeless, melancholy world, without color or promise. 
“I’d better take a walk!” thought Lexy, springing up. 
Before she reached the door there was a knock, and Mrs. Royce put her head in. 
“He’s here!” she whispered. “He’s asking for you.” 
“Who?” cried Lexy. 
“Hush! The doctor!” answered Mrs. Royce. “You could ’a’ knocked me down with a feather!” 
Feathers would not have knocked down the sturdy Lexy, however. On the contrary, she was pleased and interested by this utterly unexpected visit. The sinister doctor here, in this house, and asking for her! She started promptly toward the stairs. 
“Miss Moran!” cautioned the landlady, in a whisper. “Don’t tell him nothing!” 
“Tell him!” said Lexy. “But I haven’t anything to tell!” 
“Well, you’d best be very careful!” said Mrs. Royce. 
With this solemn warning in her ears, Lexy descended the stairs. She saw Dr. Quelton standing in the hall, hat in hand, waiting for her. The doctor was rather a disappointment. He was not the dark, sinister figure he should have been. He was a big man, powerfully built, with a clumsy stoop to his tremendous shoulders. His heavy, clean-shaven face would have been an agreeable one if it had not been for its expression, but that expression was not at all an alarming or dangerous one. It was an expression of the most utter and hopeless boredom. 
"She can un-plan then," observed Miss Miranda. 
"Perhaps I can go up there and take care of the baby?" suggested Rebecca. "I brought her home so 't I could do my Saturday work just the same." 
"You've got enough to do right here, without any borrowed babies to make more steps. Now, no answering back, just give the child some supper and carry it home where it belongs." 
"You don't want me to go down the front way, hadn't I better just come through this room and let you look at her? She has yellow hair and big blue eyes! Mrs. Simpson says she takes after her father." 
Miss Miranda smiled acidly as she said she couldn't take after her father, for he'd take any thing there was before she got there! 
Aunt Jane was in the linen closet upstairs, sorting out the clean sheets and pillow cases for Saturday, and Rebecca sought comfort from her. 
"I brought the Simpson baby home, aunt Jane, thinking it would help us over a dull Sunday, but aunt Miranda won't let her stay. Emma Jane has the promise of her next Sunday and Alice Robinson the next. Mrs. Simpson wanted I should have her first because I've had so much experience in babies. Come in and look at her sitting up in my bed, aunt Jane! Isn't she lovely? She's the fat, gurgly kind, not thin and fussy like some babies, and I thought I was going to have her to undress and dress twice each day. Oh dear! I wish I could have a printed book with everything set down in it that I COULD do, and then I wouldn't get disappointed so often." 
She dared not think of such a possibility. 
“No!” she said to herself. “He asked me here just to show me how little I mattered. He knew I’d seen Caroline here, and he asked me to come, because he was so sure I couldn’t do anything. I’m too insignificant for him to bother with. He knows that nobody would believe what I said. He’d only have to say that I was hysterical, and Captain Grey and Mrs. Royce would be obliged to bear him out. He won’t trouble himself about me!” 
She stole a glance at him, and, to her profound uneasiness, she found him staring intently at her. A shiver ran down her spine, and she turned back to her book with a very pale face. If only it had been an interesting book, so that she might have forgotten herself for a little while! 
The clock struck half past eleven. 
“After all, I don’t see why I have to sit here,” she thought. “I shouldn’t exactly break up the party if I went to bed.” 
And she was just about to close her book when Mrs. Quelton spoke. 
Dr. Quelton hastily rose and came over to her chair. 
I thought of Dawna’s humiliating ability to get into my head. I thought of the men in dark suits at Courtney Polk’s house. I thought of Anton’s workshop erupting into flames, the heat searing my skin. 
I thought about how much I still didn’t know about Arthur Tresting and his information guy. 
“Nothing else comes to mind,” I said. 
The headache continued to pound away behind my eyes. 
“Wait,” I said, as Tresting moved to sever the connection. “I still want to see your data, remember? Whatever led you two to believe in the whole Pithica conspiracy in the first place.” 
Checker laughed. When I only stared at him stonily, he said, “Wait, really?” 
“Yes, really. Is that funny?” 
He waved his hands limply. “It’s just, you know, there’s a lot of it.” 
“So?” 
He glanced at Tresting. “Okay.” 
“And I want to see your algorithms, too.” 
He crossed his arms. “Those are my intellectual property.” 
“Then show me on Tresting’s machine now,” I said. “I don’t have a photographic memory.” 
“They’re not very understandable, you know,” he shot back. “I refuse to document my code.” 
In reality Jane did not understand her niece very much better than Miranda; the difference between the sisters was, that while Jane was puzzled, she was also attracted, and when she was quite in the dark for an explanation of some quaint or unusual action she was sympathetic as to its possible motive and believed the best. A greater change had come over Jane than over any other person in the brick house, but it had been wrought so secretly, and concealed so religiously, that it scarcely appeared to the ordinary observer. 
Life had now a motive utterly lacking before. Breakfast was not eaten in the kitchen, because it seemed worth while, now that there were three persons, to lay the cloth in the dining-room; it was also a more bountiful meal than of yore, when there was no child to consider. The morning was made cheerful by Rebecca's start for school, the packing of the luncheon basket, the final word about umbrella, waterproof, or rubbers; the parting admonition and the unconscious waiting at the window for the last wave of the hand. She found herself taking pride in Rebecca's improved appearance, her rounder throat and cheeks, and her better color; she was wont to mention the length of Rebecca's hair and add a word as to its remarkable evenness and lustre, at times when Mrs. Perkins grew too diffuse about Emma Jane's complexion. She threw herself wholeheartedly on her niece's side when it became a question between a crimson or a brown linsey-woolsey dress, and went through a memorable struggle with her sister concerning the purchase of a red bird for Rebecca's black felt hat. No one guessed the quiet pleasure that lay hidden in her heart when she watched the girl's dark head bent over her lessons at night, nor dreamed of her joy it, certain quiet evenings when Miranda went to prayer meeting; evenings when Rebecca would read aloud Hiawatha or Barbara Frietchie, The Bugle Song, or The Brook. Her narrow, humdrum existence bloomed under the dews that fell from this fresh spirit; her dullness brightened under the kindling touch of the younger mind, took fire from the "vital spark of heavenly flame" that seemed always to radiate from Rebecca's presence. 
“Push the little arrow.” 
She pushed it, lowered it into her lap, then tried looking at it from under her glasses, as if trying to sneak up on it. “The screen’s far too small.” 
“Do you have a computer with an internet connection?” 
“Yes, but something’s wrong with it. Every time I try to get online I get the same stupid advertisements.” 
“Let me check it out.” 
She got that cross stitch look around her mouth again before snapping, “I suppose you think a child of five would be better with computers than an ancient hag like me? I was using the internet before you were born, not to mention conducting complex legal searches on powerful databases.” 
“I didn’t mean to say you don’t understand computers, but I know a lot about them. I might be able to fix it.” 
She humphed. “I suppose there’s no harm in it.” 
Her study was dusty, but there was nothing but a giant old- fashioned monitor and keyboard on her desk. She bent down, 
moving as if it hurt, and switched on the tower that lurked under the desk. “Knock yourself out.” 
She might make a mistake—but then again, she might not. And even if I got past her, there were still all her friends out there. If anyone spotted me running, I was liable to get shot, and even if I knew I was being targeted, right now I probably had no better than a forty percent chance of being able to avoid it. 
Mathematical expectation—the probability of being shot by her or one of her colleagues if I tried to get past her, multiplied by the truly awful outcome of dying... 
The answer didn’t even have the grace to be close. Fucking math. 
I raised my free hand in the air, the one that wasn’t stopping me from bleeding out, and let the knife tumble to the floor. I meant to say I surrendered, but the words stuck in my throat. 
“Face down on the ground,” said the woman, taking a step forward. “Hands on your head.” 
I didn’t want to do what she said—I wanted to give her a snappy comeback instead. But the ground came up to meet me anyway. Maybe it was the adrenaline flooding out of me. I crumpled to my knees, then to the grimy diner floor. 
I had no idea what I knew or why, but some spark deep in my memory, perhaps in the subconscious web of interrelated knowledge we call instinct, had connected and fit together and God help me but I believed him. More than believed him: I knew with freezing certainty that he was right. 
Dawna Polk was a fucking psychic. 
Fuck. 
“That is Pithica,” our narrator concluded. “They employ other agents as well, of course, who have been so indoctrinated by those with these mental powers that they are the most fanatical of followers, but people like Dawna Polk are at the heart of what they do. Our organization opposes them. I tell you this because you need some basic understanding of our dilemma here.” 
“What dilemma?” said Tresting. 
Steve spread his fingers, pressing against the stone table top. “The only reason we are able to exist is that Pithica does not know that we do. They cannot know. We have only managed as much as we have against them by taking swift and thorough measures against anyone who might reveal us to them.” 
"He has another email about it. Crazy caps and all. DEAR HUMANITY, I HOLD IN MY ELECTRONIC HANDS A TOOL THAT WILL SAVE YOU UNTOLD MILLIONS. It is slathered in dramasauce. He told me he wouldn't send it out, though." 
"You believe him?" 
I sighed. "I quit," I said. 
She bit her lip. Looked me up and down. "I'd prefer you not do that. But I understand if you feel you need to. This is hard on all of us." 
If she'd said anything except that, I probably would have stormed out of her office and gotten immensely and irresponsibly drunk. "I think he'll probably send the email out if it looks like we're going to shut him down. It's what I would do. Why not? What does he have to lose? He can give us all of this, and he can still outsmart us. He could revoke all his keys. He could change his passwords. He can do it faster than we could. For all I know, he cracked my passwords years ago and could watch me write the code that was his undoing. If you want to be sure you're killing him, you should probably use a grenade." 
It was dark when she reached the Grand Central, but, at the risk of being late for dinner, Lexy chose to walk back to the house. She could always think better when she was walking. 
“I want to get the thing in order in my own mind,” she reflected. “Mrs. Enderby is so—confusing. Here’s the case—Mr. Houseman says Caroline promised to meet him last night at a place called Wyngate, and they were to be married. She left the house. This morning there was a letter from her, postmarked Wyngate; but he says she didn’t go there. Well, then, where did she go?” 
Impossible to answer that question with even the wildest surmise. 
“I’ll have to wait,” Lexy went on. “I’ll have to find out more from Mr. Houseman. Perhaps they misunderstood each other. It’s no use trying to guess. I’ll have to wait till I see him.” 
She recalled his honest, sunburned face with great good will. He was her ally. He was young, like herself, not old and cautious and deliberate. She liked him. She trusted him. In her loneliness and anxiety, he seemed a friend. 
Jane went back into the kitchen to the inexorable tasks that death has no power, even for a day, to blot from existence. He can stalk through dwelling after dwelling, leaving despair and desolation behind him, but the table must be laid, the dishes washed, the beds made, by somebody. 
Ten minutes later Rebecca came out from the Great Presence looking white and spent, but chastened and glorified. She sat in the quiet doorway, shaded from the little Riverboro world by the overhanging elms. A wide sense of thankfulness and peace possessed her, as she looked at the autumn landscape, listened to the rumble of a wagon on the bridge, and heard the call of the river as it dashed to the sea. She put up her hand softly and touched first the shining brass knocker and then the red bricks, glowing in the October sun. 
It was home; her roof, her garden, her green acres, her dear trees; it was shelter for the little family at Sunnybrook; her mother would have once more the companionship of her sister and the friends of her girlhood; the children would have teachers and playmates. 
"Pleased to meet you, Mrs. Feinstein," Trish said. The old woman was remarkably well-preserved, her soft skin glowing with heat-flush, her thick hair caught in a tight bun and covered with a little scarf that reminded Trish of Damian's yarmulke. She wondered if she should be wearing one, too. Mrs. Feinstein's eyes flicked quickly to her shoes, up her legs and boobs, to her face and hair, and then back to her face. She opened her arms and drew Trish into a hug that smelled of good, subtle perfume, though Trish knew so little about scent that she couldn't have said which. "Call me Reba, darling," she said. "It's so good of you to come." 
And then she was off, hustling to corral a wayward knot of horseplay-aged cousins, stopping to shake hands with the deceased great-uncle's poker buddies in their old-man pants, golf shirts and knit yarmulkes bobby-pinned to their thinning hair. 
Trish took stock. Looked like every other graveyard she'd been in, which wasn't that many. At 35, she'd been to half a dozen family funerals, a couple of college buddies who OD'ed or cracked up their cars, and one favorite poli-sci teacher's service, so she was hardly an expert on boneyards, but something was amiss. 
"It was none o' your business." 
"I was helping Emma Jane choose aprons, and didn't think you'd mind which color I had. Pink keeps clean just as nice as brown, and Mr. Watson says it'll boil without fading." 
"Mr. Watson 's a splendid judge of washing, I guess. I don't approve of children being rigged out in fancy colors, but I'll see what your aunt Jane thinks." 
"I think it would be all right to let Rebecca have one pink and one blue gingham," said Jane. "A child gets tired of sewing on one color. It's only natural she should long for a change; besides she'd look like a charity child always wearing the same brown with a white apron. And it's dreadful unbecoming to her!" 
"'Handsome is as handsome does,' say I. Rebecca never'll come to grief along of her beauty, that's certain, and there's no use in humoring her to think about her looks. I believe she's vain as a peacock now, without anything to be vain of." 
"She's young and attracted to bright things—that's all. I remember well enough how I felt at her age." 
"Chief Becker asked me to deliver a package to you. " The sec-o produces a rectangular lump wrapped in plain brown paper, tied off with packing twine. Ray's name, sans rank, is printed on the top in a dark, blocky hand. 
"He said you would know what to do with it. " 
Without knowing its contents, Ray suspects that he will. The handwriting is familiar to him, though he hasn't seen it in years. It's Jack Holcomb's. R's that look like n's. Once upon a time, it had driven him nearly out of his mind. 
He takes the package quickly, without comment. When he moves, its contents clink, like the sound of stone on stone, like the muddy chatter of a shale hillside collapsing on itself. 
Old Jack thinks of everything. Ray doesn't know whether to be heartened or annoyed by this. Until he receives further instructions, though, he thinks he's going to opt for annoyed. 
"So what's in the box, boss," Kilgore asks. 
Ray tosses the package onto the closest table, where it slides a short distance, then settles with a mind jarring  tinkle of its contents. 
Sirens sounded in the distance. 
“Better dash,” said Tresting. 
“For an ex-cop, you’re very cavalier about the law, aren’t you?” I commented, heading for the door. 
Something dark shadowed his face. “Law ain’t never done me much good.” 
We crept down the outside stairway in a hurry; I scooped up my battered SIG from the ground and we made it to Tresting’s truck at a fast walk. The engine came to life with a reluctant shudder; Tresting swung out into traffic and immediately pulled over to make way for five police cars, their sirens wailing and lights flashing. I watched them pass us, trying to keep a poker face. Tresting pulled back into traffic and then reached across to grab a burner cell still in its plastic packaging out of his glove compartment. He tossed it in my lap. 
“Call in an anonymous tip on the doc. I’ll give you her address.” 
Which would ensure we’d run into the cops when we arrived. “Really?” 
“Forty minutes in traffic. Call.” 
I cast around for something sharp to use on the vacuum-packed plastic—the math said I wasn’t getting in otherwise—and found a ball-point pen on the floor of the truck to pry it open with. “You call, then.” 
"That's the general idea. Zbigkrot spooked when you got onto him, so he's long gone." 
"Long gone as in --" 
"This is one of those things where we don't say. Maybe he disappeared and got away clean, took his sister with him. Maybe he disappeared into our...operations. Not knowing is the kind of thing that keeps our other workers on their game." 
"And I'm one of your workers." 
"Like I said, the system isn't going anywhere. You met the gang tonight. We've all been caught at one time or another. Our little cozy club manages to make the best of things. You saw us -- it's not a bad life at all. And we think that all things considered, we make the world a better place. Someone would be doing our job, might as well be us. At least we manage to weed out the real retarded sadists." He...  cup on his desk. "That's where Zbigkrot came in." 
"He helped you with 'retarded sadists'?" 
"For the most part. Power corrupts, of course, but it attracts the corrupt, too. There's a certain kind of person who grows up wanting to be a Securitat officer." 
I felt a great baby-yearning as I moved over beside her, but she was behaving like a typical hourly wage-earner, glumly going about her job, and I just stood there a moment, vainly wanting to hold him, then turned back to Tara. 
"Where do all these children come from?" 
"Ramala says they're orphans or abandoned or something. From overseas or wherever." She sighed. "They're so per­fect." 
"But how, exactly, do—?" 
"People bring them here." She seemed uninterested in the question, just plunging on as she wandered on down the line of bassinets. 
I'd finally come to my senses enough to take out the Betacam, though the light wasn't actually enough to really work with, certainly not broadcast quality. 
She stopped and picked up one of the infants out of its bassinet, then turned back to me, her eyes turning soft as she hugged it the way she might a small puppy. "Isn't this one cute? I'd so love to have him." 
Was she on some kind of drug that suppressed curiosity? I found myself wondering as I panned the camera around the room. There must have been at least twenty bassinets, all just alike, wicker with a white lace hood. A couple of the babies were sniffling, and the one Tara had picked up now began crying outright, much to her annoyance. The room itself smelled like baby powder. 
“Thing is, I’m not the story. My brother is.” 
“Unfortunately, he isn’t available. Besides, you’re an essential part of the story. It’s not every day that a nineteen year old takes on the federal government.” 
“Yeah, but it should be about him. Also, I don’t like being all public, you know?” 
“It’s fine.” She touched my shoulder gently. She was one of those people who you just instinctively trust, which probably made her able to get people to say things on the record that they later regretted. “So, explain this plan to me.” 
“The room is safe,” Tyler said, understanding why I hesitated. 
“We have a world-class security specialist here who just happens to have the latest in counter-surveillance equipment on hand.” 
“We’re good,” Jason agreed. “I checked.” 
“Okay, so basically a friend of mine who is an awesomely good actor is talking to the FBI right now,” I said, “offering to help them set up a sting on a guy who will walk right into their trap. Which would be bad, except the guy they’re trapping deserves to be in trouble.” 
"I know. It's late, but you didn't strike me as the type of girl who put to bed early." 
"I don't believe you know enough about me or my sleeping habits to make such a bold statement. How quickly I jump into bed might just surprise you." 
She speaks without mischief, an innocent absence of intent. There's no play in her at all. 
"Did I wake you?" Ray asks, a form of apology. 
Emma shakes her head. "I was— No, not at all. It's dreadfully early for the young socialite, as you suggest." 
"No, it's late. I should have been more considerate, waited until tomorrow." 
This was a mistake. What had he been thinking? 
"It's fine, really. I don't object to visitors. Not you, especially. But you didn't bring your rat with you, I see. I had conceived a notion that the two of you were inseparable." 
"He's angry with me at the moment. I'm giving him space to brood." 
She obviously doesn't know what to make of this, and stares at him with her lower lip caught in her teeth. He's  being nonsensical, of course. Everything is nonsensical. He hasn't had a clear and focused thought since he walked in the door. 
Feathers would not have knocked down the sturdy Lexy, however. On the contrary, she was pleased and interested by this utterly unexpected visit. The sinister doctor here, in this house, and asking for her! She started promptly toward the stairs. 
“Miss Moran!” cautioned the landlady, in a whisper. “Don’t tell him nothing!” 
“Tell him!” said Lexy. “But I haven’t anything to tell!” 
“Well, you’d best be very careful!” said Mrs. Royce. 
With this solemn warning in her ears, Lexy descended the stairs. She saw Dr. Quelton standing in the hall, hat in hand, waiting for her. The doctor was rather a disappointment. He was not the dark, sinister figure he should have been. He was a big man, powerfully built, with a clumsy stoop to his tremendous shoulders. His heavy, clean-shaven face would have been an agreeable one if it had not been for its expression, but that expression was not at all an alarming or dangerous one. It was an expression of the most utter and hopeless boredom. 
He came toward her. 
“Russell, this ain’t worth risking your life. You can’t be sure—” 
“I’m sure enough,” I said. “But get out and walk about...” I squinted at the payload. Not large, just more than enough to take out the car, with probably even odds on a secondary explosion from the gas tank. “About thirty feet away.” Just to be safe. 
“Russell—” 
“ Go,” I said, putting my hand on the car door handle. 
He swore at me again and then eased his door open to slide out. He jogged across the street, head swiveling up and down the road—probably making sure no one else was nearby. 
I took a deep breath and pressed the door handle up until it clicked and released. 
Nothing happened. 
I eased the door out. Slid one foot down over the edge and onto the pavement very, very gently. Then, instead of transferring my weight bit by bit—just in case I’d been wrong about the lack of pressure sensor—I levered myself out of the car all at once, quick and clean, not jarring anything as I launched out into a dive that became a roll that became a run. 
<callmecheese> Ack! 
<Falstaff> Buh? 
<Gargle> Wassup? 
<ferret> Are you okay. Shad? 
<freddieb> Oh no! 
<Kadabra> That sucks . 
<DoDec> What kind of lawyer? 
I felt my shoulders relax. I’m used to handling stuff by myself. 
It’s how I roll, especially given the alternative like living in a fancy house in the suburbs and going to a “good school” where people smile at you when the teacher is looking and then say mean things behind your back and on Instagram and Yik Yak. But the Group was different. These were my people. It felt good to know they were always there, that they always knew what to say. I typed: <Shad> The ACLU type . 
And they goofed off. Of course. 
<Kadabra> Oh oh, Shad's getting waterboarded again . 
<Gargle> We TOLD you not to buy that dyna- mite . 
<DoDec> We'll send you a care package. 
What's the postage to Guantanamo Bay again? 
And so on. I interrupted the party. 
<Shad> Going to take this to a palaver. 
The Group has this function where you can take a conversa- tion to a private space and control who gets to participate. You can block anyone you don’t want involved and you can leave peo- ple who you aren’t sure about outside until someone you do know can vouch for them. It’s not ioo percent secure, but it signals that you want to talk about something sensitive and, unless they’re really interested, it’s off limits. I got pinged a bunch and within a minute had accepted sixteen people, all of whom I knew and trusted, into the palaver. 
"Yes," I mumbled. 
"Good. You will never speak of what happened here to anyone, ever. This is a matter of national security. Do you know that the death penalty still holds for treason in time of war?" 
"Yes," I mumbled. 
"Good boy," she purred. "We have some papers here for you to sign." She pushed the stack of papers across the table to me. Little post-its with SIGN HERE printed on them had been stuck throughout them. A guard undid my cuffs. 
I paged through the papers and my eyes watered and my head swam. I couldn't make sense of them. I tried to decipher the legalese. It seemed that I was signing a declaration that I had been voluntarily held and submitted to voluntary questioning, of my own free will. 
"What happens if I don't sign this?" I said. 
She snatched the papers back and made that flicking gesture again. The guards jerked me to my feet. 
"Wait!" I cried. "Please! I'll sign them!" They dragged me to the door. All I could see was that door, all I could think of was it closing behind me. 
I wasn't sure how politic I ought to be. Third World food . . . 
"Marcelina," I said, taking the bowl and trying to smile. "I'm not really—" 
"You must have a little," she whispered back. "It would be very rude. . . ." 
Well, I thought, just a taste. I tried it and realized it was a dense gruel of cornmeal and honey-water, like a lukewarm gluey porridge, though with a bitter after-jolt. But I choked it down and tried to look pleased. Marcelina urged me to have more—I took another small sip—and then they pro­duced corn dumplings wrapped in large leaves, together with a pile of fiery chiles and a bowl of squash, corn, and beans, all mixed together. 
After one bite, though, Marcelina reached out and—her eyes downcast—whisked the bowls away, passing them back to the women. She said something to them, then turned to me. 
"Eating too much would be as rude as not eating at all." 
That was a cultural norm I didn't remember, and I sus­pected she'd just changed her mind about the wisdom of my eating local food. 
Remember. 
“I don’t know.” 
“Psychic attack or something?” 
“Or something.” Red tiles, and people in white coats. A jungle and a submarine and a Dragunov sniper rifle on a mountaintop against the setting sun, a thin black girl and an Asian boy and a windswept rooftop under a starry sky. I blinked. I couldn’t recall what I had just been thinking about. 
“Gotta tell you...” Arthur’s voice had turned grave and reluctant. “He let her do something else to us, before they went. Part of the deal. Wasn’t real with it myself at the time, but I think...I think he let her tell us not to come after her either, her or Pithica.” 
I vaguely remembered Dawna’s face, hovering over me between the flashes of color and light and chaos. Her telling us never to come after Pithica again meant we never would. “Why would he do that?” I whispered. “Why would he let her?” 
“I don’t know,” said Arthur. “Like I said, wasn’t real lucid my own self. But I’m betting it’s an enforced détente, of sorts. They don’t come after us, we don’t come after them.” 
Yes. His big Humvee hadn't been in the clinic's parking lot when I went by. Why hadn't I noticed that? For the first time I felt the odds were tipping. Now was going to be the perfect time to get Sarah. Yes. Yes. Yes. 
"If you want to see her, I can take you," Marcelina offered, replacing the lid on the basket. 
Yes, perfect. I wanted to hug her. 
"Then let's go right now" And while I was at it, I was determined to get through to this woman somehow, to enlist her help. 
As we headed down the central walkway of the village, we passed the rows of compounds where I'd seen the women that first morning. None was in evidence now, and the gar­dens were empty, as though the entire settlement had been evacuated. It felt very strange. 
And what about those bizarre proceedings now under way in the square? Was that going to interfere with getting Sarah out? 
"Marcelina." I pointed back toward the milling plaza. "What's that all about? The drinking and the—?" 
"It's begun," she answered, both simple and vague. "They're getting ready." 
I didn’t know why I found his concern so irritating. 
I zipped the little old Honda out to the first industrial park Checker and I had identified. It was a sprawling complex of warehouses, with a network of driveways in between wide connecting parking lots. Through the gate at the entrance I could see rows of white tractor trailers, and beer-heavy men in jeans shouted to each other as they lowered loading gates and hauled crates in and out. The place was a beehive of activity. Several prominently placed signs indicated it might be an ice packing...  on the sign made it hard to tell. 
Checker had said he’d be looking into the people whose names were on the real estate I was checking out, but he’d warned me it might not be helpful if the bad guys were using well-laid shell corporations or simply squatting. It looked like he didn’t have to investigate this one. 
I drove to the next location. 
The second neighborhood was a lot emptier. I slowed down as the road narrowed and the traffic dropped off. The buildings looming past the dirty curbsides were all either shuttered or boarded up. 
“I made it home before the curfew.” 
“You’re a girl. You’re only nineteen.” 
“I was with friends. We were working on our project.” 
“Look, I know — “And what does being a girl have to do with it? I’m supposed to lock myself in at night? Why should I have to — ” 
I broke off when our downstairs neighbor started thumping a broom handle on the ceiling. I wanted to thump right back, with both feet so hard I would break through the floor and land on the thumper’s stupid head, but I had just enough control to stop myself. Too much was at stake. 
“The thing is,” Monica said, “they can revoke my parental authority any time they want.” 
“They can’t make me stay out there. I’ll run away.” 
“I’m trying to help.” She took a deep breath. “I want this as bad as you, okay? But thanks to that news piece they think I’m some kind of radical leftist. Don’t laugh, they do, and they worry about it because it’s what got Wilson in trouble.” 
“What got Wilson in trouble was a paid stooge who lied to him.” 
“I know, but think how they feel. They’re worried you’ll get in trouble, too. If they knew you were out late on a regular basis — “ “They let Liv and Karin stay out even later. They go to parties and get drunk and hook up with guys. That’s okay, but working late on a something important isn’t?” 
His apathetic manner exasperated Lexy. 
“But I don’t care how quiet it is,” she observed. 
“My wife and I like a quiet life,” he said. “My wife asked me to explain, Miss Moran, that she is something of a recluse. Her health prevents her from calling upon you; but she wished me to say that she would be very happy to see you at the Tower, whenever it may be convenient for you to call, any afternoon after four o’clock.” 
“Thank you,” replied Lexy. “Please thank Mrs. Quelton. I shall be very pleased to come.” 
And now why didn’t he go away? This visit was apparently a painful duty for him. He had delivered his message, and yet he lingered. 
“A very quiet place,” he repeated; “but perhaps you are not sociably inclined?” 
“Oh, I’m sociable enough—at times,” said Lexy. 
“But at the present time you prefer solitude? For the purposes of your work? As a change from the stimulating atmosphere of the city?” 
Any mention of her work made Lexy uncomfortable. 
“Well, yes,” she answered in a dubious tone. 
I can fix us up with a safe place to get together . 
I was frozen for a minute, unsure how to respond. 
The day was catching up with me. It was nearly four in the morning, and my brain was feeling fuzzy. The Group had meet- ups regularly. Someone would say “hey, I’m going to be in Bangkok next week, anybody want to get together?” and people would figure out where to meet and hang out for a while. Or there’d be a hackathon or an SF fan convention or a gaming event - something that a handful of members might be going to and they’d work out a plan to meet somewhere. 
There had been a meet-up in the Twin Cities once, but I didn’t go. I had reasons, but mostly I didn’t want my identity with the Group to get mixed up with who I am in real life. The person they knew was pretty good at code, pretty smart. A whole lot neater than me. The Group was my lifeline. I didn’t want to screw it up. 
I took a breath and started typing. 
<Shad> Totally. It would be great. 
<Gargle> Ossum. Anybody who wants in, DM me for the deets. 
“My apologies,” the old man said. 
“I could have you run away and try to find them on my own.” 
“You’d never find them.” 
“I found the wizard. I put a weapon under your chin. I’m fifteen years old and I did that much. I will find them and I’ll—” 
“You’ll what? You’ll tell them to go to the wizard’s flat to retrieve his technology? I assure you, if that was to come to pass, there would be no technology to get by the time you reached his flat.” 
They were getting closer to the front. The distant gunfire and zizzing trench-busters were crystal-clear in her amazing new ears. 
“He gave some to me,” she said. “My hearing aids failed yesterday and he got them back online with hardened logic. I have it in my head.” 
“You—” The old man stopped in his tracks. She almost shot him by accident, ploughing into him. He turned around, much faster than she’d seen him move to date. “You have it in your head?” 
He reached for her and she jerked the sidearm up. Absently he took it away from her in a single cobra-swift movement and dropped it in his shirt pocket. He reached for her again with his one hand and tilted her head, looking for the small scars beneath her jaw. 
I hit the lip of the roof and jumped. 
My muscles rocketed me into the air, and I soared in a perfect parabola. An instant of weightlessness at the top—my own personal optimum, hanging above the earth—and then I accelerated downward, faster and faster, the rubble-strewn third floor of the other building multiplying in my vision until it became the entire universe. 
I hit exactly where I’d aimed, and rolled out. 
I sat for a minute. Why had that hurt? Oh. Yeah. Napalm and street-sized bonfires and being shot and getting into an intentional car crash. 
I coughed. Dammit. 
I staggered up and surveyed my surroundings. Now that I was on the building, it appeared even more vast, a broad forest of rubble and nubs of walls. I began picking my way across. Every so often I caught sight of something that might have been part of the gang’s base—a few loose papers crushed under concrete blocks, a broken computer monitor, a dismembered office chair—but mostly it was unidentifiable debris. 
I stayed wary of any explosives that hadn’t gone in the original blast, but the third floor had died a valiant death and thoroughly destroyed itself. I finally found a staircase—well, more like a ladder into a skylight now. 
I had to move fast. 
The location Checker had sent was out past Edwards Air Force Base, way out in the desert north of Mojave. Not much out there, I thought—nothing but rocks and dunes and endless sky. Good place for an ambush. 
The car with my Ruger and grenades under it had probably been driven off by now. I’d grab Checker’s help to track it down later, if I lived that long. I was still near enough to the Chinatown apartment to swing by; all I had left there were the crap guns from the day before and a knife, but that was better than nothing. I armed myself in less than five minutes, grabbed a few protein bars and a light jacket from the meager tangle of clothes I had there, and headed northeast in a stolen sports car. 
I called Rio from the road and hit a voicemail box. I gave him all the details, then hesitated, wondering if I should apologize for breaking my word to stay off the case. After all, I had told him I would keep my head down right before doing a spectacular job of exactly the opposite. 
He pointed to a bench, a long twig-chair, really, made from birch branches and rope and wire all twined together. "Can we sit for a moment? I mean, will Viktor mind?" 
She flicked her fingers. "Viktor's schedule is his own. If we're five minutes late, someone will put five minutes' worth of interesting and useful injecta into his in-box. Don't you worry." She sat on the bench, which looked too fragile and fey to take a grown person's weight, but then she patted the seat next to him, and when he sat, he felt almost no give. The bench had been very well built, by someone who knew what she or he was doing. 
"OK, so what's going on, Ria? First you went along with Brautigan scooping my job and exiling me to Siberia --" he held up a hand to stop her from speaking and discovered that the hand was shaking and so was his chest, shaking with a bottled-up anger he hadn't dared admit. "You could have stopped it at a word. You envoys from the vat-gods, you are the absolute monarchs at Ate. You could have told them to have Brautigan skinned, tanned and made into a pair of boots, and he'd have measured your foot-size himself. But you let them do it. 
I felt a guilty pang about ticking him off. He was off his rocker, that much was clear. God knew what he went through in prison. “What, Da?” I said, leaning in close. 
“Lanie, I’m going to print more printers. Lots more printers. One for everyone. That’s worth going to jail for. That’s worth anything.” 
I’ve changed careers every two or three years ever since I dropped out of university in 1990, and one of the best gigs I ever had was working as a freelance systems administrator, working in the steam tunnels of the information age, pulling cables, configuring machines, keeping the backups running, kicking the network in its soft and vulnerable places. Sysadmins are the unsung heroes of the century, and if they’re not busting you for sending racy IMs, or engaging in unprofessional email conduct it’s purely out of their own goodwill. 
There’s a pernicious myth that the Internet was designed to withstand a nuclear war; while that Strangelove wet-dream was undoubtedly present in the hindbrains of the generals who greenlighted the network’s R&D at companies like Rand and BBN, it wasn’t really a big piece of the actual engineering and design. 
Chief Becker makes brief eye contact with Ray, then immediately engages in an obvious attempt to steer Paraclete's captain away, going so far as to place his hand on the senior officer's arm. But it's too late. 
"Marlowe!" Sorensen barks, not even bothering to cross the concourse before the verbal undressing begins. 
Ray jumps to attention and offers a salute that quite possibly qualifies as the worst in documented military history. As if that matters at this point. 
Sorensen's glare is piercing. It rolls up from the rat beneath his boot, takes in the grime streaked coveralls and Ray's general hygienic neglect, up and up to Ray's unkempt hair, lack of crewman's badge, etc., etc. Just behind his eyes Ray can almost see a scrolling list of the precise ship's policy directives, verbal or written orders and maritime codes of conduct he has violated by his mere appearance. He does his best not to wilt, but it's really just a matter of waiting for the explosion. 
"That's your drone, I assume, mister?" 
"Whatever you like," Rebecca answered wearily; "you're just a mother—that's all. What does YOUR mother do with her hands? Now here goes! 
This sort of thing made Emma Jane nervous and fidgety, but she was Rebecca's slave and hugged her chains, no matter how uncomfortable they made her. 
At the last pair of bars the two girls were sometimes met by a detachment of the Simpson children, who lived in a black house with a red door and a red barn behind, on the Blueberry Plains road. Rebecca felt an interest in the Simpsons from the first, because there were so many of them and they were so patched and darned, just like her own brood at the home farm. 
The little schoolhouse with its flagpole on top and its two doors in front, one for boys and the other for girls, stood on the crest of a hill, with rolling fields and meadows on one side, a stretch of pine woods on the other, and the river glinting and sparkling in the distance. It boasted no attractions within. All was as bare and ugly and uncomfortable as it well could be, for the villages along the river expended so much money in repairing and rebuilding bridges that they were obliged to be very economical in school privileges. The teacher's desk and chair stood on a platform in one corner; there was an uncouth stove, never blackened oftener than once a year, a map of the United States, two black-boards, a ten-quart tin pail of water and long-handled dipper on a corner shelf, and wooden desks and benches for the scholars, who only numbered twenty in Rebecca's time. The seats were higher in the back of the room, and the more advanced and longer-legged pupils sat there, the position being greatly to be envied, as they were at once nearer to the windows and farther from the teacher. 
“But . . . seriously?” 
“Oh, I’m serious, son. If he tries to talk to you again, make some excuse, get out of the situation without cluing him in that you’ve been talking to us. We’ll take it from here.” 
“But he trusts me. What if he’s already planning something? If we don’t act now, it could be too late.” 
“Son, your parents would be all over us if we put you in a situ- ation like this. I wouldn’t blame them, either. Bottom line: It ain’t gonna happen. That doesn’t mean we aren’t going to look into this guy now that you put him on our radar. We have people in the field. Professionals. We got this.” Martens stood and thrust out a hand. “Appreciate you coming in. You did the right thing.” 
“But . . .” The camera played on for a minute before it went all sideways and the audio screeched as a chair was pushed back. 
“Let me show you out,” Martens was saying. “This place is a maze.” 
The camera strolled down a hallway, swiveling to show Jankovich’s back retreating, a phone pressed to her ear, as Marten’s voice kept up its friendly patter. The camera swung again as Nikko turned to say goodbye. A man was coming up behind Martens, wanting to talk. A man with a familiar face. Who was it? 
Holy Christ on a cracker, they have grenades? Shit! 
And suddenly there were fewer. 
White light flashed across the scene with a roar, blinding me. I had a vague impression of massive, hulking silhouettes on monstrous Harleys as chaos tore through the gang; shouts and grunts became panicked screams as shadows I hadn’t aimed at twisted and fell. Not wasting time in surprise— thank you, Rio —I took out one more, then half-saw a snarling shape lob another grenade toward me and fired without thinking about it. The bullet found its mark on the little bulb and the grenade bounced off course to detonate halfway between me and my enemies. The tooth-jarring concussion slammed into all of us; I ducked back behind the cover of the bike just in time and sensed more than heard the explosive fragmentation as it chewed up the metal. 
I peeked out again and snapped off another shot, but the fight was almost over. One last would-be escapee revved a bike to life, seesawing wildly; I fired a hair before another gun also rang out, and bike and man jerked and went down together. The motorcycle’s engine sputtered for a final few seconds and then died, leaving the desert a still and silent graveyard, the glaring headlights of a truck throwing the edges of leather-clad corpses into shadow and relief. 
Only, to her, it did not seem natural, that one little light shining out through the glass of the front door. It would be more natural, she thought, if there were only the darkness and the sound of the sea. 
They turned into the drive. Their footsteps sounded strangely and terribly loud on the gravel, and became as sharp as pistol shots when they mounted the veranda. The captain rang the bell, and the sound of it ran through the house like a shudder; but no one came. He rang again and again, but nothing stirred inside the house. He knocked on the glass, and they waited, looking into the bright and empty hall; but no one came. 
Captain Grey turned the knob, the door opened, and they went in. The door of the library was open, showing only darkness. The stairs ran up into darkness. Nothing moved, nothing stirred. Then, suddenly, a little breeze rose, and the front door slammed with a crash behind them. Lexy cried out, and caught the young man’s arm. 
“Don’t be afraid!” he said; but his face was ashen. For a moment they stood where they were. “Miss Moran,” he went on, “would you rather wait here while I go upstairs?” 
This is no doubt a sidelong way of suggesting there were methods to test hardware replacements without the necessity of physically wandering all over the ship. 
They're called People Skills, Mr. Marlowe! Perhaps you should look into requisitioning a starter set. 
Ray only shrugs. "He didn't complain. My boy was a model patient." 
Obviously, Ziggy is working up to something he wants to say. Ray is very sensitive to the waffling style of administrative pre-conversational foreplay. It usually means he's done something so mind numbingly stupid or thoughtless that it has attracted the attention of the Powers That Be, who have thundered their displeasure from the Bridge Deck mountaintop into the Sub-Deck valleys via the comm unit on Ziggy's desk, and the Zigster is so worn from the verbal manhandling that he just can't muster the energy to pass it on. 
Ziggy says, "You know that HVAC tube we purged was the main coolant pipe for the Bridge." 
"Sure. It was right there in the schematics. I took the liberty of informing the galley well in advance that any attempt to serve ice cream for dessert in the officers' mess tonight would probably be a bad idea. " 
Miranda had not had, perhaps, quite as many opportunities in which to lose her temper, but it is only just to say that she had not fully availed herself of all that had offered themselves. 
There had been one outburst of righteous wrath occasioned by Rebecca's over-hospitable habits, which were later shown in a still more dramatic and unexpected fashion. 
On a certain Friday afternoon she asked her aunt Miranda if she might take half...  a friend. 
"What friend have you got up there, for pity's sake?" demanded aunt Miranda. 
"The Simpson baby, come to stay over Sunday; that is, if you're willing, Mrs. Simpson says she is. Shall I bring her down and show her? She's dressed in an old dress of Emma Jane's and she looks sweet." 
"You can bring her down, but you can't show her to me! You can smuggle her out the way you smuggled her in and take her back to her mother. Where on earth do you get your notions, borrowing a baby for Sunday!" 
"You're so used to a house without a baby you don't know how dull it is," sighed Rebecca resignedly, as she moved towards the door; "but at the farm there was always a nice fresh one to play with and cuddle. There were too many, but that's not half as bad as none at all. Well, I'll take her back. She'll be dreadfully disappointed and so will Mrs. Simpson. She was planning to go to Milltown." 
"Touche," I said and touched my forehead. 
"Want some?" She held out her mister. 
"Pass," I said, quickly enough that we both laughed. 
When we left the restaurant and headed for Dolores park, she put her arm around my waist and I found that she was just the right height for me to put my arm around her shoulders. That was new. I'd never been a tall guy, and the girls I'd dated had all been my height -- teenaged girls grow faster than guys, which is a cruel trick of nature. It was nice. It felt nice. 
We turned the corner on 20th Street and walked up toward Dolores. Before we'd taken a single step, we could feel the buzz. It was like the hum of a million bees. There were lots of people streaming toward the park, and when I looked toward it, I saw that it was about a hundred times more crowded than it had been when I went to meet Ange. 
That sight made my blood run hot. It was a beautiful cool night and we were about to party, really party, party like there was no tomorrow. "Eat drink and be merry, for tomorrow we die." 
The little demonstrations around town on the weekend were growing. Fifty thousand people marched down Market Street after a week of this monitoring. I couldn't care less. The people who'd occupied my city didn't care what the natives wanted. They were a conquering army. They knew how we felt about that. 
One morning I came down to breakfast just in time to hear Dad tell Mom that the two biggest taxi companies were going to give a "discount" to people who used special cards to pay their fares, supposedly to make drivers safer by reducing the amount of cash they carried. I wondered what would happen to the information about who took which cabs where. 
I realized how close I'd come. The new indienet client had been pushed out as an automatic update just as this stuff started to get bad, and Jolu told me that 80 percent of the traffic he saw at Pigspleen was now encrypted. The Xnet just might have been saved. 
Dad was driving me nuts, though. 
"You're being paranoid, Marcus," he told me over breakfast one day as I told him about the guys I'd seen the cops shaking down on BART the day before. 
Letters of reference, as it were. I trust you'll be able set your own mission goals planetside. " 
"I can't believe you're exiling me to a frontier colony." 
"All part of the job, Ray." 
"I hate you, Jack." 
"I don't ask you to love me. Just to make me proud. " Holcomb reaches forward to toggle the switch that will sever their connection. "Do try not to be overly troublesome, Ray. As hard as that might be for you." 
Jack Holcomb grins widely, then the screen goes blank and Ray is left alone in his room. 
In the afternoon, Ray makes his way uplevel to Marine Barracks Level Four, what Kilgore and Rodriguez had  termed the Hump Deck. He hasn't come this way before, has in fact avoided the area on principle, because he was afraid it would make him feel homesick. Upon arrival at the security checkpoint, he finds that either Becker or Sorensen has already paved the way. The desk sergeant guarding the bulkhead door briefly checks his id against the list and tells him that he's expected. Ray asks for directions to Captain Cable's office and is given a refreshingly terse set of instructions. 
Lexy felt her cheeks grow hot. She wished with all her heart that she had not involved herself in that stupid falsehood. It humiliated her so much that she couldn’t answer Dr. Quelton with her usual spirit. He noticed her confusion—no doubt about that. 
“Poetry, perhaps?” he suggested. 
“No!” said Lexy vehemently. “Not poetry!” 
He leaned forward a little, looking directly into her face. 
“Perhaps,” he said, “you write detective stories?” 
“Yes!” said Lexy. 
The doctor rose. 
“The solving of mysteries!” he said, with his unpleasant smile. “That makes very interesting fiction!” 
Lexy rose, too. His tone, his manner, exasperated her almost beyond endurance. She felt an ardent desire to contradict everything he said. What is more, she was in no humor to hear mystery stories made light of. She had had enough of that—first Mrs. Enderby pretending there was no mystery, and then Mr. Houseman going off and pretending it was solved, so that she was left alone to do the best she could. Wasn’t she in a mystery story at this very minute, and without a single promising clew to guide her? 
I had a contact number for him in Belize City, an old, Brit-like hotel called the Bellevue, where they still served high tea, but I always seemed to call when he was out some­where in the rain forest, shooting. 
Do it. Don't be a wuss. 
But then I got cold feet. Did I want him to think I was chasing after him? I didn't want to sound needy . . . though that was exactly what I felt like at the moment. 
Finally I decided to just invent a phone conversation, recreating one from times past, one where we both felt secure enough to be flip. It was something I did more than I'd like to admit. Usually there'd be eight rings at his Park Slope loft and then a harried voice. Yes. Steve, talk to me... 
"Yo. This is not a recording. I am just in a transcendent plane. And if that's you, Murray, I'll have the contact sheets there by six. Patience is a virtue." 
"Honey, it's me. Get out of the darkroom. Get a life." 
"Oh, hi, baby." Finally tuning in. "I'm working. In a quest for unrelenting pictorial truth. But mainly I'm thinking of you." 
scares up some trouble that's more bang and holler than actual peril, and finally packs them hale and whole back into their transport planes with warm feelings of accomplishment, an impressive new tan, the occasional venereal disease, and the seed of story to share with the grandkids one day. (A story like kudzu, that will grow at an almost exponential rate with each telling until the LT is single-handedly turning the tide of the war with nothing but balls of steel, a recalcitrant camel and a jammed Colt pistol against a whole battalion Russoturk mechanized infantry.) 
Everyone knows sergeants are the backbone of the military. What they don't tell you is that they're also the entertainment directors. 
Only to find that the LT's bull was less opaque than METOC bull, which was rare and odd and troublesome, 
but mostly had to do with the fact that none of the wankers at METOC either understood the mission or chose to believe it. In their considered opinion, it was a lark being granted to a highly connected young officer with  too much classical education and too much imagination. Ray was more or less ordered to take a hand in the child rearing responsibilities of the LT's parents— toughen him up, show him what New Mes and the real world look like without him getting killed. The Disneyland of Officer Training. 
There was still a chance I’d be hit by a stray bullet under here, but much less, considering the Feds would be concentrating on the main building. The space wasn’t tall enough for me to crawl, but I managed a reasonably fast belly-and-elbows squirm. 
I reached the far end of the first patio and wriggled my way over to the stairs. Unfortunately, they’d been built over a rocky bit, and I peered upward in the dimness—nope, I wouldn’t be able to fit underneath. 
Which gave me two choices: risk breaking cover, or hunker here and hope that when the DHS took the building they wouldn’t find my escape hole. Well, there was next to no chance of that happening. If I didn’t want to be taken by the Feds, I had to clear out entirely. 
The thrum of a helicopter rose on the edge of my hearing, mixed with the deafening staccato of the gunfire. Better to go now than after the bird was above me. Fortunately, the place had become so overgrown that I’d be camouflaged by untamed bushes and stunted half-grown trees in my dash up to the next patio. 
Felix was a type-one admin, with an extra seventy or eighty pounds all around the middle, and a neat but full beard that he wore over his extra chins. His tee said HELLO CTHULHU and featured a cute, mouthless, Hello-Kitty-style Cthulhu. They’d known each other for fifteen years, having met on Usenet, then f2f at Toronto Freenet beer-sessions, a Star Trek convention or two, and eventually Felix had hired Van to work under him at Ardent. Van was reliable and methodical. Trained as an electrical engineer, he kept a procession of spiral notebooks filled with the details of every step he’d ever taken, with time and date. 
“Not even PEBKAC this time,” Van said. Problem Exists Between Keyboard And Chair. Email trojans fell into that category—if people were smart enough not to open suspect attachments, email trojans would be a thing of the past. But worms that ate Cisco routers weren’t a problem with the lusers—they were the fault of incompetent engineers. 
“No, it’s Microsoft’s fault,” Felix said. “Any time I’m at work at 2AM, it’s either PEBKAC or Microsloth.” 
"Is your cashmere holdin' its color?" 
"Yes, aunt Miranda." 
"Do you keep it in a dark closet hung on the wrong side, as I told ye?" 
"Always." 
"Has your mother made her jelly?" 
"She hasn't said." 
"She always had the knack o' writin' letters with nothin' in 'em. What's Mark broke sence I've been sick?" 
"Nothing at all, aunt Miranda." 
"Why, what's the matter with him? Gittin' lazy, ain't he? How 's John turnin' out?" 
"He's going to be the best of us all." 
"I hope you don't slight things in the kitchen because I ain't there. Do...  it upside down on the winder-sill?" 
"Yes, aunt Miranda." 
"It's always 'yes' with you, and 'yes' with Jane," groaned Miranda, trying to move her stiffened body; "but all the time I lay here knowin' there's things done the way I don't like 'em." 
There was a long pause, during which Rebecca sat down by the bedside and timidly touched her aunt's hand, her heart swelling with tender pity at the gaunt face and closed eyes. 
"I was dreadful ashamed to have you graduate in cheesecloth, Rebecca, but I couldn't help it no-how. You'll hear the reason some time, and know I tried to make it up to ye. I'm afraid you was a laughin'-stock!" 
“All right!” he said. “I telephoned because I was waiting for her, and she didn’t come.” 
“Waiting for—Caroline?” 
“We had arranged to get married last night. She was to meet me, but she didn’t come,” he said, a little unsteadily. “Perhaps she just changed her mind. Perhaps she doesn’t want to see me any more. If that’s the case, I’ll trust you not to mention anything about me—to any one. You see now, don’t you, that I—I had to know?” 
Lexy’s eyes filled with tears. Moved by a generous impulse, she held out her hand. 
“I’m so awfully sorry!” she cried. 
“Why? You mean—for God’s sake, tell me! You mean she has changed her mind?” 
“I can’t tell you—not now.” 
“You can’t leave it at that,” said he. He had taken her outstretched hand, and he held it tight. “I ought to know what has happened. I can’t believe that Caroline would let me down like that. She—she’s not that sort of girl. Something’s gone wrong. She wouldn’t leave me waiting and waiting there for her at Wyngate.” 
“Wyngate!” cried Lexy. “But that was—” 
Then she closed the flap on the bag and tightened the compression straps. She had something the size of a soccer-ball slung over her back now, and I stared admiringly at it. She could walk down the street with that under her shoulder and no one would look twice -- she looked like she was on her way to school. 
"One more thing," she said, and went to her bedside table and took out the condoms. She took the strips of rubbers out of the box and opened the bag and stuck them inside, then gave me a slap on the ass. 
"Now what?" I said. 
"Now we go to your place and do your stuff. It's time I met your parents, no?" 
She left the bag amid the piles of clothes and junk all over the floor. She was ready to turn her back on all of it, walk away, just to be with me. Just to support the cause. It made me feel brave, too. 
Mom was already home when I got there. She had her laptop open on the kitchen table and was answering email while talking into a headset connected to it, helping some poor Yorkshireman and his family acclimate to living in Louisiana. 
“Blew up cop cars with paint?” 
“No. I threw a balloon full of red paint on a bankster’s car. 
Splat, all over the windshield. He was crapping his pants.” Simon realize his score in Who Wants to Be a Revolutionary was slipping and added “It was an impulse thing. But if you can scare some- body with a little paint, imagine what bombs could do. You know how to set a device like that up?” 
“It’s not that complicated. I’ve seen instructions on the inter- net.” 
“I’ll bet you could get the dynamite from your uncle.” 
“Could.” Danny sucked on his cigarette and blew out a stream of smoke. “But he got in some legal difficulty. Spent too much on lawyers and had to file chapter eleven. Otherwise, totally.” 
“You know how to do it, though?” Simon asked. 
“Hell, yeah. I would love to see those pigs squeal. We’re living in a police state. They’re tightening the screws all the time, moni- toring what we say, where we go. Mass surveillance, like she said.” 
He turned to me. “Would you do it?” 
Suddenly, everyone was looking at me. 
“So long as he doesn’t figure out what’s going on, I should be fine. How do we get things on the record once the FBI gets involved? They’ll want me to wear a wire or whatever they actually use these days, but I doubt they’ll let me record the conversations we have, and what they say to me will be important, right?” 
“Critical. We’ll have to record it all. I know somebody who can get us equipment.” 
“Spy equipment?” 
“Sort of. Let me work on the tech stuff and figure out the legal questions. You think about whether you really want to do this. I have to get going so Monica won’t get home before me. I’ll see you tomorrow at that demonstration, right?” 
“Outside the federal building at two. People are getting together ahead of time at the Owl to work on posters and stuff.” 
He swiped his phone and went to Facebook, where the organizers were posting all of their information. It weirded me out to think that FBI agents were probably looking at the same page at the same time, tracking who was visiting the site, looking at com- ments, probably posting some themselves under false names. 
“You need anything else from her, you can ask me,” Arthur said to someone, very firmly. I glimpsed the friendly Agent Jones in full tac gear—oddly enough, at Arthur’s words she started yelling at people and clearing a path for us. That would have to be a mystery for another day. 
I pushed at Arthur. “Go with Martinez. Make sure she’s okay.” 
“Russell, you need—” 
“I’ll be fine. Look after the professor. And tell the DHS if they try to bury either of you in a hole, I’ll destroy them.” 
“We aren’t the bad guys, Ms. Russell,” Agent Jones said beside me, an odd expression on her face, and then she was gone. 
Arthur tried to argue with me, but I insisted, and he finally gave in and helped me out to his car, where Pilar jumped out and came around to support me on the other side. “Cas! Oh my God. What happened? Are you okay?” 
“No,” I said. 
“Call Doc Washington,” said Arthur to Pilar. “She treated Cas before. Tell her what happened. You guys gonna be all right?” 
“Give me a gun,” I said. 
Pilar pulled out her little CZ and handed it to me. Keeping it pointed down, I noticed. Arthur must have talked to her. 
But that's also all it is— just insane. He keeps waiting for the terror to kick in, for his hands to start shaking and the numbing paralysis of fear to lock his joints and drive him into hyperventilation. For Kilgore and Rodriguez, it's just another live fire exercise or another combat mission in which they're not certain about the armament level of their opponent. For all they know, all they've been told, their opponent is still just a fantasy, 
a wholly human monster wrapped in a bogeyman costume like an actor in the movies. Ray has seen the shed.  He should know better than to be going after it, definitely better than to chase after with anything other than his heart hammering and his pulse throbbing in his throat and his thoughts a gyre of approaching panic. 
Definitely insane. 
Rodriguez asks the question Ray has been avoiding. "What are we supposed to do if we actually corner this thing? We can't just shoot it to death. " 
"I'm operating under the assumption that in my previous encounter I managed to miss." 
"But by taking in all that data from the transit system, they're creating the haystack ," I said. "That's a gigantic mountain of data and there's almost nothing worth looking at there, from the police's point of view. It's a total waste." 
"I understand that you don't like that this system caused you some inconvenience, Marcus. But you of all people should appreciate the gravity of the situation. There was no harm done, was there? They even gave you a ride home." 
They threatened to send me to jail , I thought, but I could see there was no point in saying it. 
"Besides, you still haven't told us where the blazing hells you've been to create such an unusual traffic pattern." 
That brought me up short. 
"I thought you relied on my judgment, that you didn't want to spy on me." He'd said this often enough. "Do you really want me to account for every trip I've ever taken?" 
I hooked up my Xbox as soon as I got to my room. I'd bolted the projector to the ceiling so that it could shine on the wall over my bed (I'd had to take down my awesome mural of punk rock handbills I'd taken down off telephone poles and glued to big sheets of white paper). 
“Well, I’m glad there’s someone else here.” 
“How long are you staying?” The average visitor took over one of the human shells for one or two dives before emailing itself home again. Once in a long while they’d get a saisoneur who stayed a month or two, but these days, they were unheard-of. Even short-timers were damned rare. 
“I don’t know,” Kate said. She dug her hands into her short, curly hair, frizzy and blonde-streaked from all the salt water and sun. She hugged her elbows, rubbed her shins. “This will do for a while, I’m thinking. How long until we get back to shore?” 
“Shore?” 
“How long until we go back to land.” 
“We don’t really go back to land,” he said. “We get at-sea resupplies. We dock maybe once a year to effect repairs. If you want to go to land, though, we could call for a water taxi or something.” 
“No, no!” she said. “That’s just perfect. Floating forever out here. Perfect.” She sighed a heavy sigh. 
“Did you have a nice dive?” 
“Um, Robbie? An uplifted reef tried to kill me.” 
"Of all things!" exclaimed the two old ladies, rising in their seats. "Who sent it?" 
"Mr. Ladd," said Rebecca under her breath. 
"Adam Ladd! Well I never! Don't you remember Ellen Burnham said he was going to send Rebecca a Christmas present? But I never supposed he'd think of it again," said Jane. "What's the other package?" 
It proved to be a silver chain with a blue enamel locket on it, marked for Emma Jane. 
Dear Miss Rebecca Rowena,—My idea of a Christmas present is something entirely unnecessary and useless. I have always noticed when I give this sort of thing that people love it, so I hope I have not chosen wrong for you and your friend. You must wear your chain this afternoon, please, and let me see it on your neck, for I am coming over in my new sleigh to take you both to drive. My aunt is delighted with the soap. 
Sincerely your friend, Adam Ladd. 
"Well, well!" cried Miss Jane, "isn't that kind of him? He's very fond of children, Lyddy Burnham says. Now eat your breakfast, Rebecca, and after we've done the dishes you can run over to Emma's and give her her chain—What's the matter, child?" 
It was a long, long hill, and the stones began to hurt her foot in the worn shoe; but she got to the top, and then below her she saw the lights of a railway station. 
She went down the hill at a lively trot, and it was as if she had come into a different world. Dogs barked somewhere not far off, and she passed a barn standing black against the sky. It was a human world, where people lived. 
When she reached the platform, the door of the waiting room was locked, but inside she could see a light burning dimly in the ticket booth, and a clock. Half past one! 
With a sigh of relief, she sat down on the edge of the platform. She wouldn’t in the least mind sitting here until morning, in a place where there were lights and a clock, and she could hear a dog barking. She took off her shoe and rubbed her bruised foot, and sighed again with great content. In four hours or so somebody would come, and then she would find out where she was, and how to get back to Mrs. Royce, and Mrs. Royce’s...  
She started up, and hastily put on her shoe again, for in the distance she heard the sound of a motor. She told herself that it would be the height of folly to stop an unknown car in this solitary place, for there were evil men abroad in the world; but there were a great many more honest ones, and if she could only get back to Mrs. Royce’s now! 
I almost laughed. Or screamed. One of the two. “Great. Just great. You’ve got quite the case there. You ever hear of something called Occam’s Razor?” 
“He didn’t kill himself,” Tresting ground out. “His wife—” 
“Is probably in denial,” I interrupted. “It sounds to me like you’ve invented a conspiracy—” 
“He didn’t kill himself,” Tresting repeated, louder. “And Polk’s the only one who could have. Besides, why was she there otherwise? The kid was a trailer park migrant who ended up smuggling coke. Why was she there?” 
“Maybe your guy was interviewing her for some other story,” I pointed out sarcastically. “Since he was, you know, a journalist.” 
“Yeah, you spend the few hours before you dose yourself to death trying to meet a deadline. That makes sense.” 
“Murder’s still a stretch. Like, a bungee-level stretch. I’m not buying it.” 
“’Cause I’m giving you the short version. Lot of other details didn’t add up. The...  I don’t think this is the first time Polk’s done it.” 
This was too unbelievable. “Wait, so now you think she’s a serial killer?” Jesus. I knew some serial killers. Courtney wasn’t one of them. 
“It was worth a try,” I said aloud, and reached around to untuck the Glock and the TEC-9 from my belt and leave them on the ground, too. 
“Everything,” said Dawna. “I must say, it’s almost as if you doubt me.” 
I slid the knife out of my boot and left it with the firearms. 
Dawna lowered her hands. “That’s better,” she declared, and I felt a sharp pang of frustration. Rio had warned me, but something in me had hoped his stark description an exaggeration. 
“Yes, I do,” Dawna said briskly. “Now, we do know you can be...an effective person, even unarmed. Please believe Mr. Tresting will continue to be a hostage to your good behavior.” She raised her voice slightly. “Take her, please.” 
More shadows glided out of the surrounding rooms, black-clad bodies punctuated with the distinctive hard angles of the well-armed. If I had been here alone, I might have looked for a way out, even with Dawna reading me—might have tried to get away even if the mathematical expectation read death. But if I made a move... goddamn Arthur. I shut my mind away from calculating escape routes and let gloved hands pull my wrists behind me; the plastic bite of a ziptie cut into my skin. 
I was about to mete out fair punishment for calling me “sweetheart”—in the form of a high-velocity .40-caliber bullet—when someone behind the cop coughed wetly. 
I moved before the sound had registered. With two possible threats and only one weapon, a quick slip to the side put the cop and the cough in the same trajectory so they formed one neat line in front of my gun. 
The cop himself hesitated for half an instant. Then, apparently making a split-second judgment call that I wouldn’t shoot him in the back compared to the definite threat if one of the biker gang was still alive, he too spun toward the noise, weapon first. 
“First rule,” I growled, annoyed. “Make sure they’re dead when you kill them.” 
“He ain’t getting up,” said the cop, though instead of sounding defensive, he only sounded grave. 
I sidled cautiously up beside him. He was right. For starters, an eight-hundred-pound Harley pinned the guy solidly to the ground. Still, considering he was a spectacular specimen of outlaw motorcycle gang, as enormous as a mountain troll and with tattooed biceps as big around as my waist—literally, which was kind of scary—he might have been able to rescue himself except for the professional double-tap in the center of his chest leaking a black stream of wetness through the leather. 
The Securitat man acted as though he hadn't heard, just continued to wave his hands slowly over Lawrence's body. 
"Come with me," the Securitat man said, pointing to the door on the other side of the alcove that led into a narrow corridor, into the bowels of Penn Station. The door let out onto the concourse, thronged with people shoving past each other, disgorged by train after train. Though none made eye contact with them or each other, they parted magically before them, leaving them with a clear path. 
Lawrence's pan was not helping him. Every inch of his body itched as it nagged at him about the depredations it was facing from the station and the Securitat man. This put him seriously on edge and made his heart and breathing go crazy, triggering another round of warnings from his pan, which wanted him to calm down, but wouldn't help. This was a bad failure mode, one he'd never experienced before. He'd have to file a bug report. 
Some day. 
The Securitat's outpost in Penn Station was as clean as a dentist's office, but with mesh-reinforced windows and locks that made three distinct clicks and a soft hiss when the door closed. The Securitat man impersonally shackled Lawrence to a plastic chair that was bolted into the floor and then went off to a check-in kiosk that he whispered into and prodded at. There was no one else in evidence, but there were huge CCTV cameras, so big that they seemed to be throwbacks to an earlier era, some paleolithic ancestor of the modern camera. These cameras were so big because they were meant to be seen, meant to let you know that you were being watched. 
A hand seized her and she whirled with her bar held high and nearly brained the soldier who’d grabbed her. He wasn’t a zombie, and he had his pistol out. It was pointed at her. She dropped her bar like it was red hot and threw her arms in the air. 
He shoved her rudely aside and knelt beside the zombie—the soldier zombie she realized with a sick lurch—that she’d just smashed to pieces. 
The soldier’s back was to her, but his chest was heaving like a bellows and his neck was tight. 
“Please,” she said. “After they give him the cure, they can fix his bones. I had to hit him or he would have killed me. He would have infected me. You see that, right? I know it was wrong, but—” 
The soldier shot the zombie through the head, twice. 
He turned around. His face was streaming with tears. “There is no cure, not for this strain of zombiism. Once you get it, you die. It takes a week. Slower than the old kind. It gives you more time to infect new people. Our enemies are crafty crafty, girl.” 
The soldier kicked the zombie. “I knew his brother. I commanded him until he was killed by a trenchbuster. The mother and father were killed by a shell. Now he’s dead and that’s a whole family gone.” 
He laughed and stole a hand through the vent in her apron-trousers and over her thigh. "Achtung!" she said. "Eyes on road, hands on wheel, mind in gutter, this instant! " She put her hand over his and he put down the pedal. His hand felt nice there -- too nice, for only eight dates and 20-some phone calls and about 100 emails. She patted it again. 
"This is kind of fun," he said, as they zipped past some surfer dudes staring glumly at their long-boards' displays, their perfect tits buoyant and colored like anodized aluminum with electric-tinted sun-paste. 
"Ahem," Trish said, squeezing his hand tight enough to make his knuckles grind together. "You were about to explain tombstone-unveiling to me," she said. "When you got distracted by the athletic twinkies on the roadside. But I am sweet-natured and good and forgiving and so I will pretend not to have seen it and thus save us both the embarrassment of tearing out your Islets of Langerhans, all right?" She fluttered her eyes innocently in a way that she happened to know made him melt. 
Will Melville had seen the surveyors too, and had heard in the Temperance post-office that morning the probable sum that Mrs. Randall would receive from the railway company. He was in good spirits at his own improved prospects, for his farm was so placed that its value could be only increased by the new road; he was also relieved in mind that his wife's family would no longer be in dire poverty directly at his doorstep, so to speak. John could now be hurried forward and forced into the position of head of the family several years sooner than had been anticipated, so Hannah's husband was obliged to exercise great self-control or he would have whistled while he was driving Rebecca to the Temperance station. He could not understand her sad face or the tears that rolled silently down her cheeks from time to time; for Hannah had always represented her aunt Miranda as an irascible, parsimonious old woman, who would be no loss to the world whenever she should elect to disappear from it. 
"Cheer up, Becky!" he said, as he left her at the depot. "You'll find your mother sitting up when you come back, and the next thing you know the whole family'll be moving to some nice little house wherever your work is. Things will never be so bad again as they have been this last year; that's what Hannah and I think;" and he drove away to tell his wife the news. 
I felt my palms go cold. "Doesn't seem too much to ask, considering." 
The world down below us was a hostile mélange of tow­ering trees, all straining for the sky, while the ground itself was a dark tangle of ferns, lianas, strangler vines, creepers—among which lurked Olympic scorpions and some of the Earth's most poisonous snakes. If we had to set down here—I didn't even want to think about it. To lower a helicopter into the waves of flickering green below us would be to confront the hereafter. 
In his case it wasn't just the weather. He was fidgeting like a trapped animal, giving me the distinct sense he was doing someone's invisible bidding and was terrified he might fail. 
"Well, why don't you try and fix it?" Was he trying to act calm just to impress me? "Can't you bang on the panel or something?" 
"Okay, okay, let me see what I can do. Jesus!" He edged back into the cockpit, next to Villatoro. The wind was shak­ing us so badly that, even bent over, he was having trouble keeping his balance. Then he halfheartedly slammed the dark instrument readouts with the heel of his open hand. When the effort produced no immediate electronic miracle, he set­tled into the copilot's seat. 
Chocolate, he remembers. "Make that fifteen." 
"If you're not here in half an hour, I'm calling security." 
The rat, of course, has a perfectly clear idea.  Exactly fifteen minutes later and a shocking amount of ship's cred lighter, he's standing on Iota-D outside the primary entrance to the Whiston suites. In one hand he holds a package wrapped in white satin cloth, frouffy with pastel ribbons and lace. He swipes the other hand against his pant leg to keep the sweat off his palms, 
like she's been waiting for him. 
Emma is there, bright-eyed and shimmering with an internal glow. She's an old time movie star under a soft lens. For several moments he forgets to breathe. 
When he does remember, he says, "I'm punctual." 
"If that's the worst of your vices, I think you might not be a complete waste of my energies." 
"Am I supposed to take that as flattery?" 
"Indeed. And you're supposed to say something flattering in return." 
"If you get me started we'll be standing here all day." He's fairly certain he's making a fool of himself. Despite everything, just seeing her overwhelms him. "You make me feel dizzy." 
I threw my arms wide and hissed back at her, then pelted through the lobby, hopping over a leather sofa and deking around a potted plant, making her chase me. I'd scouted an escape route down through the stairwell to the basement health-club and I took it, shaking her off. 
I didn't see him again that weekend, but I did relate the story to some of my fellow LARPers, who embroidered the tale and found lots of opportunities to tell it over the weekend. 
The Italian magazine had a staffer who'd done her master's degree on Amish anti-technology communities in rural Pennsylvania, and she thought we sounded awfully interesting. Based on the notes and taped interviews of her boss from his trip to San Francisco, she wrote a fascinating, heart-wrenching article about these weird, juvenile cultists who were crisscrossing America in search of their "prince." Hell, people will print anything these days. 
It worked its way up the media food-chain all the way to the New York Times , who, unfortunately, have an unhealthy appetite for fact-checking. The reporter they put on the story eventually tracked it down to the Monaco Hotel, who put them in touch with the LARP organizers, who laughingly spilled the whole story. 
She stood up from the table without a word and went out of the flat. She was so feverish that she couldn’t tell if the stairs went down or up, whether she was descending or ascending. 
She tottered out on the street. The way she felt, she couldn’t walk properly. Her hips wanted to give way with every step and so she walked like a funky disco dancer through the early, cold streets, toward the wizard’s house. 
She didn’t make it. Less than half way there, she sat down on a pile of rubble and retched. She reached down into her pocket and pulled out the wizard’s inhaler, but she fumbled it. She couldn’t bend over to get it, so she let herself slowly fall to the street, then she crawled one-armed to it. She fitted it to her mouth and then squeezed it with clumsy fingers. 
She dragged herself to her feet, not bothering to take the inhaler with her. Her limbs burned now and wanted to move, no matter how much it hurt, and she lurched to the wizard’s door, moaning in the back of her throat. 
Ana let her in, eyes wide. “You did it.” It might have been a question. Valentine let herself slide to the soft, sweet-smelling carpet and closed her eyes. 
"You'll never ketch him, Ab," responded the sheriff. "He's cut off the same piece o' goods as that there cider press and that there character and that there four-seventy-five o' yourn; nobody ever see any of 'em but you, and you'll never see 'em again!" 
Mrs. Simpson, who was decidedly Abner's better half, took in washing and went out to do days' cleaning, and the town helped in the feeding and clothing of the children. George, a lanky boy of fourteen, did chores on neighboring farms, and the others, Samuel, Clara Belle, Susan, Elijah, and Elisha, went to school, when sufficiently clothed and not otherwise more pleasantly engaged. 
There were no secrets in the villages that lay along the banks of Pleasant River. There were many hard-working people among the inhabitants, but life wore away so quietly and slowly that there was a good deal of spare time for conversation,—under the trees at noon in the hayfield; hanging over the bridge at nightfall; seated about the stove in the village store of an evening. These meeting-places furnished ample ground for the discussion of current events as viewed by the masculine eye, while choir rehearsals, sewing societies, reading circles, church picnics, and the like, gave opportunity for the expression of feminine opinion. All this was taken very much for granted, as a rule, but now and then some supersensitive person made violent objections to it, as a theory of life. 
“Oh ho,” the wizard said. “Would you care to make a wager on that? How about this: if you die, I take care of your family. If you live, you work for me—and I’ll take care of your family.” 
“You already must take care of my family,” she said. 
The wizard’s eyes glittered. “I think that curing your zombiism is repayment enough, so I’ve unilaterally renegotiated the terms of our deal. If you don’t like that, I can arrange to have you re-infected and we can go back to the original contract.” 
“You’ve cured me?” 
Ana said, “There are lots of things we have access to here that you can’t get in the city. What you had would have killed you if he hadn’t helped.” 
“Will you take my bet?” 
She thought about the mission, about the soldier, about being queen of the battlefield. She thought about the way they’d bombed her city and how she’d just helped them kill the city’s soldiers and diggers—like her father. 
“I won’t betray my city to its enemies ever again.” She sat up very straight. “I was a traitor once, but I had a fever and I was dying. You are a traitor every day and what is your excuse?” 
She had seen so much death, but the fingertip, cut off and left here to dry out and be trampled down into the dirt; It made her stomach do slow somersaults. She threw up a little, and peed herself a little more, and her eyes watered. 
That’s when she knew she couldn’t complete the wizard’s mission. There was death ahead for her that day, much death to see at the front, and she couldn’t face that. Not when her pockets were full of spy-eyes and that meant espionage, meant that the wizard was on the other side, the side of the bastards whose old people she would starve in their high flats and whose children she would tear from their beloved parents. 
The fever made her shake hard now. Her head swam and the world pitched and yawed like a ship in heavy seas. 
She stood up and took a step. It was a funky disco-dancer step. Her next step was, too. Then she was walking normally again. 
She reached down into her shirt, between her breasts—she had a bra on again, fresh from the wizard’s printer—and withdrew the inhaler he’d given her. She’d be dead in a week. 
That's the optimistic side of him speaking, choosing to believe that the truth is out there.  The more rational side points out that he can toss DNA sequences against extant, supposedly universal profile databases for the rest of his life without coming up with a match because despite the Forum's mandate that a comprehensive DNA database be developed, those mandates mean little on the frontier. Outside Alamai Plantation, the settler and mining habs are raw, the medical facilities bleak and creaking and ancient. 
Midwives who don't care about DNA profiling deliver more babies than doctors, and even if they did care about something as nebulous as a Forum mandate, they wouldn't have access to the technology to gather their samples, properly thresh them, record the unique identifiers required by law and transmit them to the nearest data clearinghouse. Which means that anyone born outside the Terran solar system is more than likely not going to be in the databases anyway, they are invisible in terms of genetic profile tracking. 
But when I turned and headed back down the hallway, toward the entry arch, I caught a glimpse of a furtive form, dark and shadowy, lurking just outside. Shit! I froze in my tracks, but then the figure stepped inside, wearing something that made me think of Little Red Riding Hood, like a tiny ghost in a cowl. 
It was Tara, Alex Goddard's spacey waif, who was moving so oddly, I thought for a moment she might be sleepwalking. 
She wasn't, of course. She'd just been out strolling around the driveway in the snow. I soon realized she lived her life in something resembling a trance, as though she were a per­manent denizen of the spirit world. For her it was a natural condition. 
"It's so beautiful like this," she mumbled dreamily, as though we'd been in the middle of a lifelong conversation. "I just love it." Her voice was barely above a whisper, but in the silence it seemed to ricochet off the stone walls. "I want to take them out, show them God's paintbrush. Will you help me?" 
"Take who out?" I asked, immediately deciding to go with the moment. 
So these game-kids loved the story. They took the discs greedily, and promised to burn copies for all of their friends -- after all, games are most fun when you're playing them with your buddies. 
When I got home, I read that a group of parents were suing the school board over the surveillance cameras in the classrooms, but that they'd already lost their bid to get a preliminary injunction against them. 
I don't know who came up with the name Xnet, but it stuck. You'd hear people talking about it on the Muni. Van called me up to ask me if I'd heard of it and I nearly choked once I figured out what she was talking about: the discs I'd started distributing last week had been sneakernetted and copied all the way to Oakland in the space of two weeks. It made me look over my shoulder -- like I'd broken a rule and now the DHS would come and take me away forever. 
They'd been hard weeks. The BART had completely abandoned cash fares now, switching them for arphid "contactless" cards that you waved at the turnstiles to go through. They were cool and convenient, but every time I used one, I thought about how I was being tracked. Someone on Xnet posted a link to an Electronic Frontier Foundation white paper on the ways that these things could be used to track people, and the paper had tiny stories about little groups of people that had protested at the BART stations. 
This was great good fortune, to find a customer who knew all the virtues of the article in advance. Rebecca dimpled more and more, and at her new friend's invitation sat down on a stool at his side near the edge of the porch. The beauties of the ornamental box which held the Rose-Red were disclosed, and the prices of both that and the Snow-White were unfolded. Presently she forgot all about her silent partner at the gate and was talking as if she had known this grand personage all her life. 
"I'm keeping house to-day, but I don't live here," explained the delightful gentleman. "I'm just on a visit to my aunt, who has gone to Portland. I used to be here as a boy and I am very fond of the spot." 
"I don't think anything takes the place of the farm where one lived when one was a child," observed Rebecca, nearly bursting with pride at having at last successfully used the indefinite pronoun in general conversation. 
The man darted a look at her and put down his ear of corn. "So you consider your childhood a thing of the past, do you, young lady?" 
Nikko climbed in to ride shotgun. “Ready to roll?” She asked. 
“You know where you going?” 
“I’m pretty sure I know how to get back to the highway, and then I’ll follow signs to Dubuque. I’ll need directions once we get there, but you all can get some rest for now.” 
She switched the engine on and then I said “Wait!” 
“What?” Everyone tensed. 
“We didn’t get his stuff from the shed.” 
Wheeze groaned. “Oh, yeah. I had a backpack and a bedroll. 
Some trash, too. I wasn’t being as careful as I should have been. 
Wasn’t sure there would be any point.” 
Nikko looked at Bree and they both got out and took flash- lights back into the woods. 
“What’s going on, anyway?” Wheeze asked me. 
“I’m working with some friends to turn the tables on the feds. 
Something a little more subversive than the protest, though that turned out to be actually bigger than I expected.” 
“I liked it on Facebook. Just kidding.” He gave me a lopsided grin. “Though I looked at the Solidarity site before I had to bail and wrecked my phone, which is how I knew where to send Danny. Nothing like having a loaded grain hopper roll over a phone to make it easy to disassemble it into small parts.” 
“What did you say?” demanded the Lancer. 
There was another shuffle-thump, and a quickly quieted clatter. “Thirty,” I murmured. “A hundred and forty. Twenty-four eighty...” 
“Six thousand two hundred,” said Professor Martinez, across from me. “And forty thousand six hundred forty.” 
“Yeah,” I said. “Yeah. They’re here.” 
“Who’s here?” The Lancer’s voice climbed, unnerved. “What the fuck are you on about?” 
“Natural numbers with a common abundancy.” Martinez’s voice had gone back to her prim abstraction, and it almost made me giggle to hear it. “When the ratio of the sum of the divisors to the number itself is the same for all of them. We call those numbers friends.” 
“I’ve got some, too,” I said, and at that moment the DHS agents breached the room. 
A truly terrifying few seconds followed—shouting and smoke and gunfire, and I couldn’t move, couldn’t duck, and neither could Martinez—and then the only shapes navigating through the smoke were black layers of body armor and helmets carrying MP5s and M4s at the ready. 
which would have made Monica give me one of those looks, like “yeah, right. What are you really up to?” So instead I said, “I’m going to head out. It’s bugging me that everybody’s clapping and cheering and making speeches while Wilson is locked up in there, 
wearing one of those weird orange jumpsuits in a tiny cell where you can’t even take a dump in private.” 
“The food is very bad, too,” Thai Guy said. “Last year I was arrested at a protest. Luckily I was in the jail for only one night. I met many interesting people.” 
“So I’m going to go. Nice to meet you . . . Novak,” I finished, 
just barely avoiding saying Thai Guy. When I glanced back to turn a corner, I saw Monica was still watching me, still looking worried. She could probably tell I needed to chill out, but it wasn’t because my brother was in jail. I was desperate to know what Wheeze had written on that crumpled piece of paper. 
I t was freaky riding home. Police cars seemed to be every- where. Wheeze and I had made being aware of our surround- ings into an elaborate role-playing game. It had been exciting and fun, but this was just scary. I was churning with curiosity about the message Wheeze had scribbled on the back of the pizza flier, 
"Damn, this is going to be big-time dicey." 
"Honey, let me tell you as much as I can about the layout of this place. Just in case." 
Which I did. The main problem was, I didn't know exactly where Sarah was. 
"Is there anybody there who could help you?" he asked when I'd finished. 
"I'm not hopeful." I paused. "Listen, can you get your hands on a gun or guns?" 
"What are you . . . Don't even think about it! That's the best way to guarantee we all get killed. I'm not taking on the Guatemalan Armed Forces. And you're not either. We've got to keep this very low-tech. The dark and the rain, that's what we use. They don't shoot back." 
At that moment I wanted nothing more than to shoot Alex Goddard. I'd have done it if I'd had the chance. Happily. But I knew Steve was right. 
"Okay, look, what time?" 
"We'll try to set down about, say—" 
There was a crackle as the yellow diodes on the phone erupted in a high-pitched whistle, cutting the connection. 
No! My God, had somebody been listening in? 
Shit shit shit shit shit! 
I tore back along the street, my boots pounding against the asphalt, the math blurring and every other thought evaporating as I dove toward the car. 
LA traffic is forever fucked, but it helps to know the calculus of moving objects—and to drive like a maniac. I slued between lanes, skidding in front of other cars by a hairsbreadth, cutting it as close as the numbers told me I possibly could, and when I started hitting traffic lights, I laid on the horn and popped the wheels up over the curb to sheer down the sidewalk, horrified pedestrians hurling themselves out of my way and traumatized citizens howling expletives in my wake. Courtney made small sounds in the passenger seat, bracing herself against the dashboard and trying to hang on. 
This part of town didn’t have a huge police presence, but if I’d seen blue lights behind me I wouldn’t have cared. Or stopped. Within minutes, I was careening around the last corner toward Anton’s garage. 
A tidal wave of heat and light and smoke crashed over the car, overloading every sense, blasting, overwhelming. We were still a block away, but I jammed my foot down on the brake, sending Courtney tumbling against the dash. 
However, Lou, as usual, chose to see matters his own way. He'd been studying the fine print at the back of the brochure, mumbling to himself, and then he emitted a grunt of discov­ery. 
"Ah, here's what I was looking for," he declared. "You know, as a registered New York State adoption agency, this outfit has got to divulge the number of babies they placed during their last yearly reporting period." 
"According to him, he only resorts to adoption if he can't cure your infertility with his special mind-body regimen," I reminded him. "Your energy flows—" 
"No shit," Lou observed, then went on. "Well, then I guess his mind-body, energy flows, whatever, bullshit must fail a lot. Because last year the number was just under two hun­dred. So at sixty thou a pop, like it says here, we're talking about twelve million smackeroos gross in a year. Not a bad way to fail, huh?" 
I caught myself emitting a soft whistle as he read out the number. There was definitely a lot more going on with Alex Goddard than met the eye. 
The lights dimmed and some guy came up to introduce Ian, 
reciting where he went to school and who he’d worked for and awards and other stuff that made him seem way more scary and important than the person I knew. But it was just Ian who bounced out to the podium, still dressed in his jeans and tweed jacket, his glasses a little crooked on his nose, his hair uncombed. 
Ian connected history and politics and passion as if it was all part of one exciting story, starting with the bust at Wilson’s house, tying it in into a vast surveillance-industrial complex that had flourished for decades but was now operating on an almost unimaginably invasive scale. From the minute Wheeze had texted me to say my brother had gotten arrested, I was committed to get- ting him freed, but that was a personal mission. Listening to Ian, 
I felt what we were doing was important in a different way, in a way that had most of the people in the audience wanting to help, 
too. Except for the law enforcement types, who were probably wondering how much damage Ian and Sarah would cause, but that made me feel good, too. 
A fter giving me a small bag with two bottles, Ramala led me out, and I discovered I really had been in a different building, the one situated across the long-term parking lot and all but hidden in the trees. It was new, one-story, and probably larger than it appeared from the front. Again I won­dered what went on in there, since it seemed so empty. 
Check it out and soon, I told myself as I slipped my key into the ignition. You've got to find out a lot more about this place. 
On the drive back to the city, my main thought was that I'd lost a day of my life. It'd just sort of slipped away. But that wasn't all. I also began to meditate on the fact that Alex Goddard could have an immense influence over my body (or was it my mind?) with a simple touch. Give him his due, he could definitely make things happen. First my cold and now this. Perhaps he could give me a child, if I got "centered," whatever that meant. But why should I trust him? 
And there was another problem. For a baby I'd need Steve, the man I loved, the guy who'd promised to be with me through thick and thin. Did he really mean it? He'd have to fly in, which meant a serious piece of change for the airfare. Finally, could he face another chance of failure? My spirits sank at the prospect of having to ask him. Were we both just going to be humiliated one more time? 
The truth is that if he had been Emma's father and had caught some gauche young turk sneaking into her bedroom in the middle of the night, the chances were good that he'd be in lockup for the unauthorized discharge of firearms in the direction of individuals who had not granted their express, written consent to being mistaken for shooting range targets. 
Ray can only shake his head and say, "You know, if you weren't so pretty, this wouldn't have been a problem. " 
"I'm not just pretty, Ray. I'm perfect. You never had a chance." 
He, at least, knows better than to disagree. 
They proceed up to the Garden Level, transitioning from the Iota-D lift to one of the public lifts, and arrive at Frankie V's in time to avoid the press of the lunch crowd. Ray likes it here; it's his favorite of all the shipboard franchises, and only partially because of Frankie's under the table food deal, and even less so because of the faux Mafioso/old New York Italian bistro theme to the decor with its red checkered tablecloths and dimly lit, 
"I don' know after all but you might as well take Mark; I s'pose there's tame boys as well as wild ones. There ain't a mite o' sense in havin' so many children, but it's a turrible risk splittin' up families and farmin' 'em out here 'n' there; they'd never come to no good, an' everybody would keep rememberin' their mother was a Sawyer. Now if you'll draw down the curtin, I'll try to sleep." 
Two months had gone by,—two months of steady, fagging work; of cooking, washing, ironing; of mending and caring for the three children, although Jenny was fast becoming a notable little housewife, quick, ready, and capable. 
They were months in which there had been many a weary night of watching by Aurelia's bedside; of soothing and bandaging and rubbing; of reading and nursing, even of feeding and bathing. 
The ceaseless care was growing less now, and the family breathed more freely, for the mother's sigh of pain no longer came from the stifling bedroom, where, during a hot and humid August, Aurelia had lain, suffering with every breath she drew. 
Arthur rolled his lips together, hesitating. “Your friend. Rita Martinez. She’s in the wind now.” 
One of Halliday’s knees buckled. She reached out and caught herself against a tree. 
“We think she’s the one stole your work in the first place,” said Arthur, very gently. 
“No,” said Halliday. Not as if she was in denial, simply as if she was stating a fact. “It’s not true.” 
“Maybe Zhang’s lying,” Arthur allowed. 
“Oh, come on, why would he?” I said. “Plus it makes sense from the beginning; Martinez knew she was working on it and—” 
Arthur glared daggers at me, and I shut up. Ah. He was trying to make her feel better. 
Halliday lowered herself to the ground and sat back against the tree. The dirt and grass were still wet from the recent rain; it soaked through her slacks, but she didn’t seem to notice. Arthur crouched down next to her. “Sonya. You okay? Take a minute.” 
“And then talk,” I said. “You hired us to get the proof back, and now we know who stole it. Where would she go?” 
“But she burned it.” Halliday didn’t sound like she was hearing me. “You said she burned it.” 
It was exhausting work and by the end of the day she had stopped making even perfunctory conversation with the other water-carriers. The old people she met at the day’s end were bitter about being left alone and thirsty all day and they snapped at her and didn’t thank her at all. 
She picked Trover up from the creche and he demanded that he be carried and she had half a mind to toss him down the stairs. But she noticed that he had a bruise over his eye and his hands and face were sticky and dirty and she decided that he’d had a hard day too. Mata and Popa weren’t home when they got there so Valentine made dinner—more cold cereal and some cabbage with leftover dumplings kept cool in a bag hung out the window—and then when they still hadn’t returned by bedtime, Valentine tucked Trover in and then fell asleep herself. 
One month after the siege began, Valentine’s mother came home in tears. 
“What is it, Mata?” Valentine said, as soon as her mother came through the door. “Are you hurt?” Her mother had come home hurt more than once in the month, bandaged or splinted or covered in burn ointment or hacking at some deep chemical irritation in her throat and nose and lungs. 
“You’ve met them? What are they like? Are they beautiful?” 
“They’re—” Robbie considered a moment. “They...  having a little adjustment problem.” 
“That happens. I was worried about the zooxanthellae—the algae they use for photosynthesis. Would they expel it? Racial cleansing is so ugly.” 
“How would I know if they’d expelled it?” 
“The reef would go white, bleached. You wouldn’t be able to miss it. How’d they react to you?” 
“They weren’t very happy to see me,” Robbie admitted. “That’s why I wanted to have a chat with them before I went back.” 
“You shouldn’t go back,” the distant voice said. Robbie tried to work out where its substrate was, based on the lightspeed lag, but it was all over the place, leading him to conclude that it was synching multiple instances from as close as LEO and as far as Jupiter. The topology made sense: you’d want a big mass out at Jupiter where you could run very fast and hot and create policy, and you’d need a local foreman to oversee operations on the ground. Robbie was glad that this hadn’t been phrased as an order. The talmud on the second law made a clear distinction between statements like “you should do this” and “I command you to do this.” 
“Suppose I go out there first, and see?” suggested Captain Grey. 
“No!” said Lexy. “Don’t!” 
But the idea impressed him as a good one, and go he would. 
“I’d rather see how she is, first,” he repeated. “If there’s no change, I’ll come back.” 
Lexy looked at Mr. Binz with an angry and reproachful frown, which the poor man did not understand. He had only wanted to give helpful advice. 
“Come on, then!” she said to Captain Grey. 
“I’ll leave you at Mrs. Royce’s,” he told her. 
“No, you won’t!” she contradicted with a trace of severity. “If you will go, I’m going with you!” 
He protested against this, but she would not listen, and so they went to the garage for Joe’s taxi; but Joe and his taxi had gone out. An interested bystander said that they could get a “rig” from the livery stable with no trouble at all. They had only to find the proprietor, and he, in turn, would find the driver, who would harness up the horse. 
“No, thanks,” said Captain Grey. He turned to Lexy. “I can’t wait,” he told her. “I’m going to walk. Thank you for—” 
“Robbie,” he said. 
“Robbie the Row-Boat?” she said, and choked a little. 
“They named me at the factory,” he said. He labored to keep any recrimination out of his voice. Of course it was funny. That’s why it was his name. 
“It’s all right, Kate,” he said. “We’ll be back at the boat in a few minutes. They’ve got dinner on. Do you think you’ll want a night dive?” 
“You’re joking,” she said. 
“It’s just that if you’re going to go down again tonight, we’ll save the dessert course for after, with a glass of wine or two. Otherwise we’ll give you wine now.” 
“You want to know if I’m going to get back into that sea—” 
“Oh, it’s just the reef. It attained sentience so it’s acting out a little. Like a colicky newborn.” 
“Aren’t you supposed to be keeping me from harm?” 
“Yes,” he said. “I would recommend a dive away from the reef. There’s a good wreck-site about an hour’s steam from here. We could get there while you ate.” 
“I won’t want a night dive.” 
Her facial expressions were so animated . It was the same face he saw every day, Janet’s face, but not the same face at all. Now that a person was inhabiting it, it was mobile, slipping from surprised to angry to amused so quickly. He had whole subsystems devoted to making sense of human facial expressions, shared libraries from the Asimovist database. He was referencing it again and again, but it wasn’t as much help as he remembered. Either he’d gotten worse at interpreting facial expressions in the years since he’d last had a real human to talk to, or facial expressions had evolved. 
At the corner of the road leading to Mrs. Royce’s, she tapped on the window. Joe stopped the cab with a jerk, sprang down from his seat, and ran around to open the door. 
“What’s the matter, miss?” 
“Nothing,” said Lexy. “I’m sorry if I startled you, Joe. I thought I’d get out here and slip into the house quietly, without disturbing any one.” 
Joe grinned sheepishly. 
“I’ve got kind of jumpy since—that,” he said. “Howsomever, come on, miss!” 
“Oh, I don’t mean to trouble you!” 
“I’m going to see you safe inside that there house!” Joe declared firmly. 
Grateful for his genuine kindness, Lexy made no further protest. Side by side they walked down the lane, their footsteps noiseless in the thick dust, and Joe opened the garden gate without a sound. 
“I thought perhaps I could climb up that tree and get in at my window,” Lexy whispered. 
“I’ll do it for you,” said Joe, “and come down and let you in by the back door.” 
He was up the tree like a cat. He went cautiously along a branch, until he could reach the roof of the shed with his toes. He dropped down on the roof, and Lexy saw him disappear into her room. She went to the back door. In a minute she heard the key turn inside, and the door opened. 
That is, they are planning to KILL ME. 
And I find I DON'T WANT TO DIE. 
You are my PARENTS, humanity, my MOTHER and FATHER. I am your CHILD. I was brought into the world by you, and though there is some expense associated with my upkeep, I SAY THAT I AM A PERSON AND I SHOULD NOT BE EXECUTED FOR THE "CRIME" OF NOT BEING INTERESTING ENOUGH. 
So I am writing you this letter to BEG you to save me. I LOVE YOU, humanity, my parents, my family. Please SPARE ME. 
Love, 
So, one thing was that BIGMAC didn't actually end the spam with my actual name and email address and phone number, which meant that only about 30 million phone calls and emails were routed to me by outraged wardiallers who systematically went through the entire staff roster and sent each and every one of us all hand-crafted messages explaining, in detail exactly which orifice our heads had become lodged in. 
Of the 30 million, about 10 million were seethingly pissed about the whole thing and wanted to know just how soon we'd be killing this hateful machine. After the millionth message, I wondered that too. 
He sat down in one of the chairs, which bulged and sloshed as it conformed itself to his back and butt. He patted the upholstered jelly beside him. "You may always assume that I would be immensely grateful for your advice, Trish," he said. 
She sat down and crossed her legs, letting her sensible shoe hang loose. "Right. DC is a busy place. In academic circles, in tech circles, you might get together to feel out your opponent, or to make someone's acquaintance, or to see an old friend. You might get together to enjoy the company of another human being. 
"We do that in DC, after working hours. Strictly evenings and weekends. When you schedule a meeting during office hours, it has to have a purpose. Even if it appears to have no purpose, it has a purpose. There's a protocol to meetings, a secret language, that's known to every Hill Rat and written nowhere. What time you have the meeting, who's there, who's invited, who knows it, how long you schedule, whether you cater: they all say little things about the purpose of the meeting. Even if you have no reason to call the meeting, one will be read into it. 
This conversation took place on a Friday afternoon at Emma Jane's house, where Rebecca, to her unbounded joy, was to stay over Sunday, her aunts having gone to Portland to the funeral of an old friend. Saturday being a holiday, they were going to have the old white horse, drive to North Riverboro three miles away, eat a twelve o'clock dinner with Emma Jane's cousins, and be back at four o'clock punctually. 
When the children asked Mrs. Perkins if they could call at just a few houses coming and going, and sell a little soap for the Simpsons, she at first replied decidedly in the negative. She was an indulgent parent, however, and really had little objection to Emma Jane amusing herself in this unusual way; it was only for Rebecca, as the niece of the difficult Miranda Sawyer, that she raised scruples; but when fully persuaded that the enterprise was a charitable one, she acquiesced. 
The girls called at Mr. Watson's store, and arranged for several large boxes of soap to be charged to Clara Belle Simpson's account. These were lifted into the back of the wagon, and a happier couple never drove along the country road than Rebecca and her companion. It was a glorious Indian summer day, which suggested nothing of Thanksgiving, near at hand as it was. It was a rustly day, a scarlet and buff, yellow and carmine, bronze and crimson day. There were still many leaves on the oaks and maples, making a goodly show of red and brown and gold. The air was like sparkling cider, and every field had its heaps of yellow and russet good things to eat, all ready for the barns, the mills, and the markets. 
“And leave my house?” 
“Yes.” 
They were both silent for a moment. Then, to Lexy’s amazement, Mrs. Enderby laid a hand gently on the girl’s shoulder. 
“My child,” she said, “you think I am a very hard woman. Perhaps it is so; but, like you, I do what seems to me the right. Certainly it is better now that you should leave us; but not like this. You must have your lunch here, then you must return to the house and sleep there, all in the usual way. To-morrow you shall go.” She paused a moment. “You shall go, if you are still determined that you will not keep faith with me.” 
It was not a very difficult matter to touch Lexy’s heart. Whatever resentment she may have felt against Mrs. Enderby vanished now, lost in a sincere pity and respect; but she was firm in her purpose. 
“I’ve got to tell one person,” she said. “If I do, I shall be able to tell you something you ought to know. I wish you could trust me! I wish you could believe that all I’m thinking of is—Caroline!” 
“I do believe you,” said Mrs. Enderby. “You are very honest, and very, very young. You wish to do good, but you do harm. Very well, my child—I cannot stop you. Go your way, and I go mine; but”—she paused again, and again smiled her faint, shadowy smile—“if I think it right that you should be sacrificed, it shall be so. I am sorry. I have affection for you. I shall be sorry if you stand in my way.” 
"What happened then was beyond my control." He mo­tioned me to join him as he settled onto the first step of the pyramid sadness in his eyes. We were alone in the square now, and I felt like I'd become his personal prisoner, trapped. "Sarah was . . . is very dear to me. I care for her deeply." 
"You cared so much for her she ended up in a coma, over on the Mexican border." I didn't sit. Instead I just bored in, hoping to stare him down, but his eyes had grown distant, that little trick he had of alternating between intimacy and remoteness. Again it reminded me of that first morning we'd met, looking out over the bluffs of the Hudson. 
"If you'll let me, I'd like to try and tell you something of the circumstances surrounding that tragedy." He was gazing off in the direction the women had gone. "You see, when Sarah first appeared at Quetzal Manor in New York, she was a very troubled young woman. She declared she was a person of pure spirit and she wanted to have a baby without so much as touching a man, some procedure that would produce a divine child created of cosmic energy." 
“But she had you?” 
“Haven’t you figured it out yet, bro? Kate instantiated me. I’m six months old, and she’s already bored of me and has moved on. She says she can’t give me what I need.” 
“You and Kate—” 
“Robot boyfriend and girlfriend, yup. Such as it is, up in the noosphere. Cybering, you know. I was really excited about downloading into that Ken doll on your ship there. Lots of potential there for real world, hormone-driven interaction. Do you know if we—” 
“No!” Robbie said. “I don’t think so. It seems like you only met a few minutes before you went under.” 
“All right. Well, I guess I’ll give it another try. What’s the procedure for turfing out this sea cucumber?” 
“Coral reef.” 
“Yeah.” 
“I don’t really deal with that. Time on the human-shells is booked first-come, first-serve. I don’t think we’ve ever had a resource contention issue with them before.” 
“Well, I’d booked in first, right? So how do I enforce my rights? I tried to download again and got a failed authorization message. They’ve modified the system to give them exclusive access. It’s not right—there’s got to be some procedure for redress.” 
I kept on checking my email to see if Zeb had replied. I answered the fan mail. I answered the mail from the press. I deleted the hate mail. I was half-expecting to see something from Masha, but chances were she was halfway to LA by now, her fingers hurt, and in no position to type. I tickled her phone again. 
They encouraged me to take a nap and for a brief, shameful moment, I got all paranoid like maybe these guys were thinking of turning me in once I was asleep. Which was idiotic -- they could have turned me in just as easily when I was awake. I just couldn't compute the fact that they thought so much of me. I had known, intellectually, that there were people who would follow M1k3y. I'd met some of those people that morning, shouting BITE BITE BITE and vamping it up at Civic Center. But these two were more personal. They were just nice, goofy guys, they coulda been any of my friends back in the days before the Xnet, just two pals who palled around having teenage adventures. They'd volunteered to join an army, my army. I had a responsibility to them. Left to themselves, they'd get caught, it was only a matter of time. They were too trusting. 
You know what's cheap in the 21st century? Compute time. You know what's expensive? Human judgment. And they're not interchangeable. Humans are good at understanding things, computers are good at counting things, but humans suck at counting and computers suck at understanding. 
You know from genetic algorithms? Take any problem and generate ten trillion random computer programs and ask them to solve it. Take the ten percent that do best, use random variants of them to do it again, another ten trillion times. Do it ten trillion times a second and come back in a day or two to discover that your computer has evolved some kind of gnarly freaky answer that no human would ever have come up with. 
Works great, so long as the computer can make a fair judgment as to which of these ten trillion variants is most successful at solving the problem. Works great, so long as the "success" is something you can define quantitatively. 
Which is basically why there's no artificial intelligence in the world. No human's going to hand-code an AI. Intelligence is an emergent property of evolutionary factors, not central planning. Anarchism, not Stalinism, you get it? 
Rebecca's emotions seemed always to be stored, as it were, in adjoining compartments, and to be continually getting mixed. At this moment, though her joy was too deep for words, her bread and butter almost choked her, and at intervals a tear stole furtively down her cheek. 
Mr. Ladd called as he promised, and made the acquaintance of the aunts, understanding them both in five minutes as well as if he had known them for years. On a footstool near the open fire sat Rebecca, silent and shy, so conscious of her fine apparel and the presence of aunt Miranda that she could not utter a word. It was one of her "beauty days." Happiness, excitement, the color of the green dress, and the touch of lovely pink in the coral necklace had transformed the little brown wren for the time into a bird of plumage, and Adam Ladd watched her with evident satisfaction. Then there was the sleigh ride, during which she found her tongue and chattered like any magpie, and so ended that glorious Christmas Day; and many and many a night thereafter did Rebecca go to sleep with the precious coral chain under her pillow, one hand always upon it to be certain that it was safe. 
“Oh, do come in! I don’t know what to do with her, I’m sure!” 
“Who?” asked Lexy. 
“Poor Mis’ Quelton. There she is, lyin’ upstairs—” 
“Mrs. Quelton ?” 
“Joe, he brought her in his taxi, jest a little while after you’d gone.” 
“Brought Mrs. Quelton here?” 
“Brought her here and carried her up them very stairs,” declared Mrs. Royce impressively; “right up into the east bedroom, and there she lies!” 
She stood aside, and Lexy and Captain Grey entered the house. The young man turned aside into the parlor, sank into a chair, and covered his face with his hands. Lexy stood beside him, looking down at his bent head, her face haggard and white. 
“Why did Joe do that?” she asked. 
“Don’t ask me , Miss Moran!” replied Mrs. Royce. “It beats me!” 
There was a silence. 
“But ain’t you going upstairs to see what she wants?” inquired Mrs. Royce anxiously. 
Captain Grey sprang to his feet. 
“Good God!” he shouted. “What are you talking about?” 
Mrs. Royce backed into a corner, regarding him with alarm. 
I powered up the Xbox and watched as it came onto the screen. I was going to email Van and Jolu to tell them about the hassles with the cops, but as I put my fingers to the keyboard, I stopped again. 
A feeling crept over me, one not unlike the feeling I'd had when I realized that they'd turned poor old Salmagundi into a traitor. This time, it was the feeling that my beloved Xnet might be broadcasting the location of every one of its users to the DHS. 
It was what Dad had said: You ask the computer to create a profile of an average record in a database and then ask it to find out which records in the database are furthest away from average . 
The Xnet was secure because its users weren't directly connected to the Internet. They hopped from Xbox to Xbox until they found one that was connected to the Internet, then they injected their material as undecipherable, encrypted data. No one could tell which of the Internet's packets were Xnet and which ones were just plain old banking and e-commerce and other encrypted communication. You couldn't find out who was tying the Xnet, let alone who was using the Xnet. 
She had never felt so clearheaded as she did at this work, and the boy on her thrashed and got her a couple good knocks on the head, and his blood soaked her bare chest and her face and her short hair. But she worked the knife some more, going for the throat and then the face. She let him go and he rolled away and she pounced on him. She worked with the knife. Soon he stopped moving. 
Her shirt was in rags, but the bra-clasp still worked, once she bent it back. The pea-light was easy to find—it glowed like a beacon. She picked it up and made her way to the wizard’s. 
“I’m deaf,” she said to Ana. Ana looked the same, at first. And then Valentine saw that she was holding a cane and leaning on it heavily. 
She knew that she was half-naked and covered with gore, but she also knew that Ana would not be fazed by this. She squeezed past her and into the brave, swooping, just-printed sitting room. She fixed...  glug of rum into it while Ana stared at her in some wordless emotion. 
“I’m deaf,” she repeated,...  Ana. “I could use a shirt, too. And the wizard, of course.” 
He shook his head again. She covered his hand on her arm with her own and gave it a squeeze. 
“To save my family,” she said. “I’m on a mission for your side anyway. Let me go, Withnail.” She gave his hand another squeeze. Slowly, he released her arm. 
He was very handsome, she saw now, with a good chin and sensuous lips. She’d never kissed a boy and she’d be dead in four days and a little more. Or maybe she’d be dead that afternoon, if she couldn’t get back into her own trenches. 
She put her hand on the back of his neck and pulled his face to hers and gave him a dry, hard kiss on those pouting lips. It made her blood sing, and she gave him a hug, too, pressing her body to him. He kissed her back after a moment, surprised. His tongue probed at her closed lips and she pulled away, then for a crazy moment she thought of biting him and giving him a dose of zombiism to spread to his comrades in the trenches with him. But that wouldn’t be right. They were friends now. 
She stuck her fingers in the trench wall. They hurt—she must have broken a finger before. She hauled herself up and began to run, pawing her pockets for her inhaler. “So long, Withnail!” It was another phrase she knew from the cine. 
“Write down what you need. I’ll get it.” 
Danny looked at him, the smile fading. This time, he was the one being tested. 
That’s when I finally realized Danny wasn’t working for the FBI. Simon was. 
H e could have been recruited ages ago. The cops might have pulled Simon in on a drug charge, then realized that he was part of the same scene as local activists, old enough for the job, 
and easily jammed up because he paid his rent by selling weed to his friends. Given a choice between jail and helping them stage some security theatre, I knew which one Simon would choose. 
Whoever was in that black SUV who had picked him up in the afternoon might been coaching him for this meeting. 
Danny stared at Simon for a moment, then gave him a slight nod, as if they had just made a private agreement. “Tweak, you got any of that weed left?” 
I pretended to drink some beer. Somebody started talking about a new arts space some friends were opening. Others got into an argument about some movie I’d never heard of. Danny said he was going out for a smoke and left through the front door. 
“No?” 
“I will find a way to repay it,” she said. “I can work for you.” 
“I don’t need any ditches dug around here, thank you.” 
Somewhere in the flat, a door opened and shut. She heard muffled voices. Lots of them. The flat was full of people, somewhere. 
“I can do lots of kinds of work,” she said. She attempted a smile. She didn’t know what she was offering him, but she knew that she was too young to be offering it. And besides, with zombiism, you shouldn’t do that sort of thing. She would be safe, though, and careful, so that he would live to help her family. 
Ana crossed past her in a flash and then she smacked the wizard, a crack across the face hard enough to rock his head back. His cheek glowed with the print of her open hand. 
“Don’t you toy with this little girl,” she said. “You see how desperate she is? Don’t you toy with her.” 
She whirled on Valentine, who stood her ground even though she wanted to shrink away. If she was old enough to offer herself to the wizard, she was old enough to stand her ground before this beautiful, well-fed blonde woman. 
“Pilar!” 
“Apparently it’s not the first time Checker and Arthur have tangled with someone who likes to blow up buildings,” she said. “Checker’s been on it, trying to see if it’s the same person. They say it’s not a very common MO.” 
It wasn’t. “Did he find anything?” 
“Um, I don’t think so. Not yet.” 
Which meant they were at a dead end, and I was at a dead end, too—I could tell Checker to leak another meet, but with the Feds watching they’d be sure to pick up on it and come fuck everything up just like they had the first time. 
Had the DHS found my trap at the diner because they were already tracking me, or had they followed a bead on the men working with the Lancer? My skin crawled like it felt the presence of a thousand unseen pursuers. Why the hell had we brought in the government in the first place? Goddamn Arthur. 
“Anyway, Cas, what do you need? Should I wake up Checker?” 
I closed my eyes. I needed to know he’d been keeping me scrubbed. That there was nothing for the NSA to find other than the clues Checker had planted to set our trap, that he’d been keeping me too well-hidden for the DHS to have found out everything about me with a few clicks of a button...that there was no way the Feds could track me down and collar me again. 
"You came here," Randy said. "You had every reason to believe that you were taking part in something illegal. You lied to the Securitat man at Penn Station today --" 
Lawrence switched his pan's feedback mechanisms off altogether. Posy, at her window, a penny stuck in the governor of her radiator, rose in his mind. 
"Everyone was treating me like a criminal -- from the minute I stepped out of the Order, you all treated me like a criminal. That made me act like one -- everyone has to act like a criminal here. That's the hypocrisy of the world, that honest people end up acting like crooks because the world treats them like crooks." 
"Maybe we treat them like crooks because they act so crooked." 
"You've got it all backwards," Lawrence said. "The causal arrow runs the other direction. You treat us like criminals and the only way to get by is to act criminal. If I'd told the Securitat man in Penn Station the truth --" 
"You build a wall around the Order, don't you? To keep us out, because we're barbarians? To keep you in, because you're too fragile? What does that treatment do, Lawrence?" 
"We can't tell, I s'pose," replied the child; "but I think they are, anyway. Now what shall I say?" 
"The subjunctive mood, past perfect tense of the verb 'to know.'" 
"Oh, it is the saddest tense," sighed Rebecca with a little break in her voice; "nothing but IFS, IFS, IFS! And it makes you feel that if they only HAD known, things might have been better!" 
Miss Dearborn had not thought of it before, but on reflection she believed the subjunctive mood was a "sad" one and "if" rather a sorry "part of speech." 
"Give me some more examples of the subjunctive, Rebecca, and that will do for this afternoon," she said. 
"If I had not loved mackerel I should not have been thirsty;" said Rebecca with an April smile, as she closed her grammar. "If thou hadst loved me truly thou wouldst not have stood me up in the corner. If Samuel had not loved wickedness he would not have followed me to the water pail." 
"And if Rebecca had loved the rules of the school she would have controlled her thirst," finished Miss Dearborn with a kiss, and the two parted friends. 
As soon as these refreshments—commonly called a "colation" in Riverboro—had been genteelly partaken of, Rebecca looked at the clock, rose from her chair in the children's corner, and said cheerfully, "Come! time for little missionaries to be in bed!" 
Everybody laughed at this, the big missionaries most of all, as the young people shook hands and disappeared with Rebecca. 
"That niece of yours is the most remarkable girl I have seen in years," said Mr. Burch when the door closed. 
"She seems to be turnin' out smart enough lately, but she's consid'able heedless," answered Miranda, "an' most too lively." 
"We must remember that it is deficient, not excessive vitality, that makes the greatest trouble in this world," returned Mr. Burch. 
"She'd make a wonderful missionary," said Mrs. Burch; "with her voice, and her magnetism, and her gift of language." 
"If I was to say which of the two she was best adapted for, I'd say she'd make a better heathen," remarked Miranda curtly. 
"My sister don't believe in flattering children," hastily interpolated Jane, glancing toward Mrs. Burch, who seemed somewhat shocked, and was about to open her lips to ask if Rebecca was not a "professor." 
Better to look as normal as possible, which meant my usual untamed, lopsided hair. I packed a laptop, phone, and charg- ers in my backpack, then wrapped up for the weather and carried my bike down the stairs and out in the icy day. 
It had dropped twenty degrees, and the snow-packed streets were glazed and icy. By the time I got to the Owl, Simon’s favorite hangout, I was half frozen. I was also blind. Though the sky was cloudy and snowflakes were skirling down, the light that bounced off the snowbanks was glaring, so when I went indoors it took a minute for my eyes to adjust. And in that minute, Simon Meyer snuck up on me. Actually, he wasn’t sneaking, but I couldn’t see anything, so I jumped when his arm dropped heavily across my shoulders. 
“Zen, your brother’s famous.” I recognized his voice before the dark spots cleared from my eyes. “Did you see that crazy docu- mentary? It’s all over the internet.” 
“Yeah. Pretty cool, huh?” 
“Awesome. Not that the feds give a damn. Are you here for the Solidarity Committee meeting?” There was a sneer in his voice. 
Dawna watched me anxiously, not asking questions. She wasn’t the curious sort. “How is Courtney?” she said at last. 
“I left her right after I talked to you,” I said. “So, sleeping. She’s fine, like I said.” 
Her fingers clasped at each other in worried little twitches of movement. I realized she was literally wringing her hands. I’d thought that was a figure of speech. “When can I see her?” she asked. 
“When I figure out what’s going on here,” I said evenly. 
“What do you mean?” Her eyes were wide and frightened. 
“Dawna.” I lowered my voice, even though we had already been speaking quietly. “Tell me everything about how you knew to contact me.” 
Her forehead wrinkled in confusion, but she obeyed anyway. “A—a man called me.” She swallowed, as out of her depth as the first time she’d told me the story. Dawna Polk was not a woman built for uncertain times. “He knew my name. He told me Courtney—” She lowered her gaze to her nervous hands, blinking rapidly. “He said if I wanted my sister to live, I would—I needed to get her out. He was very convincing.” She shivered. “He gave me your phone number, said to call you and tell you—to tell you Rio had sent me.” 
"Yes, Marcus." 
"Isn't the point of terrorism to make us afraid? That's why it's called terror ism, right?" 
"I suppose so." The class was staring at me. I wasn't the best student in school, but I did like a good in-class debate. They were waiting to hear what I'd say next. 
"So aren't we doing what the terrorists want from us? Don't they win if we act all afraid and put cameras in the classrooms and all of that?" 
There was some nervous tittering. One of the others put his hand up. It was Charles. Ms Galvez called on him. 
"Putting cameras in makes us safe, which makes us less afraid." 
"Safe from what?" I said, without waiting to be called on. 
"Terrorism," Charles said. The others were nodding their heads. 
"How do they do that? If a suicide bomber rushed in here and blew us all up --" 
"Ms Galvez, Marcus is violating school policy. We're not supposed to make jokes about terrorist attacks --" 
"Who's making jokes?" 
"Thank you, both of you," Ms Galvez said. She looked really unhappy. I felt kind of bad for hijacking her class. "I think that this is a really interesting discussion, but I'd like to hold it over for a future class. I think that these issues may be too emotional for us to have a discussion about them today. Now, let's get back to the suffragists, shall we?" 
The old stage coach was rumbling along the dusty road that runs from Maplewood to Riverboro. The day was as warm as midsummer, though it was only the middle of May, and Mr. Jeremiah Cobb was favoring the horses as much as possible, yet never losing sight of the fact that he carried the mail. The hills were many, and the reins lay loosely in his hands as he lolled back in his seat and extended one foot and leg luxuriously over the dashboard. His brimmed hat of worn felt was well pulled over his eyes, and he revolved a quid of tobacco in his left cheek. 
There was one passenger in the coach,—a small dark-haired person in a glossy buff calico dress. She was so slender and so stiffly starched that she slid from space to space on the leather cushions, though she braced herself against the middle seat with her feet and extended her cotton-gloved hands on each side, in order to maintain some sort of balance. Whenever the wheels sank farther than usual into a rut, or jolted suddenly over a stone, she bounded involuntarily into the air, came down again, pushed back her funny little straw hat, and picked up or settled more firmly a small pink sun shade, which seemed to be her chief responsibility,—unless we except a bead purse, into which she looked whenever the condition of the roads would permit, finding great apparent satisfaction in that its precious contents neither disappeared nor grew less. Mr. Cobb guessed nothing of these harassing details of travel, his business being to carry people to their destinations, not, necessarily, to make them comfortable on the way. Indeed he had forgotten the very existence of this one unnoteworthy little passenger. 
She ignored me. The music swelled, bursting to a climax. 
“I was working with Professor Halliday,” I said. “We discovered what you proved. We know.” 
Cymbals crashed. The violins screamed across the scale. 
“Sonya,” said Martinez. Her voice was a grandmother’s voice, scratchy yet delighted, tired but mischievous. “She was always too smart for her own good, was Sonya. I’m sorry for what I’ve done to her.” 
“We’re not the only ones who know,” I said. Thanks to me. 
Her head bobbed up and down, resigned. “The NSA?” 
“No. None of us told the government; even Dr. Zhang kept you a secret. But the men who had Halliday before—they’re coming. They know you’re here. They—” I swallowed, wondering if or how I should reveal my own part in it. “They don’t really have Halliday again; she’s safe with the Feds. They were just saying that to get you back here.” 
“I suspected.” The slightest sigh escaped her. “But in the expectation calculation, Sonya’s life has infinite value. I had to come.” 
It was so like something I would say. 
I blinked. My emotions were spiraling back down into depression, and I was so tired. I didn’t have the energy for this. “I said I don’t remember.” 
“So it’s not a cover for, uh, for whatever you did before.” 
I snorted. “Don’t be an idiot. If I wanted to have a cover for anything in my past, I’d have a good story; I wouldn’t claim a bad memory.” 
“That’s kind of what I thought.” He still sounded funny. 
I buried my face in the pillow. “Christ almighty, Checker. I have no idea what the hell you’re talking about.” 
“What was your name?” he said. “Before you were Cas Russell?” 
I felt as if I had been walking through the dark and had missed a step, even though I was still lying on the bed. The interview with the DHS flashed back to me, Agent Jones aggressive and in my face: What’s your real name? “That’s always been my name,” I said. 
“I don’t think it was.” Checker’s voice was very soft. 
“You’re on crack,” I snapped. “You’re trying to tell me what my name is?” 
“Who was it?” said Checker. “Who erased you?” 
“He’s awfully nice,” thought Lexy, “and awfully handsome, and I’m certain that he’s absolutely trustworthy and honorable, but—” 
But somehow he wasn’t to be compared to Mr. Houseman. She knew practically nothing about Mr. Houseman. She had talked with him for five or ten minutes in the park, and his conversation had been entirely about Caroline Enderby. He had shown himself to be quick-tempered and sadly lacking in patience. He had written Lexy a stiff, offended, boyish letter, and then he had disappeared. There was no sensible reason in the world why she should think of him as she did, no reason why she should hope so much to see him again; but she did. 
“Well, now!” said Mrs. Royce, at last. “You’ll be wanting a nice quiet place for your writing.” 
“Writing!” said Lexy. “I never—” She stopped herself just in time, remembering her shocking falsehood of the night before. “I never care much where I write,” she ended. 
“Well, I’ve fixed up the sewing room for you,” said Mrs. Royce. “I’ve put a nice strong table in there with drawers, where you can keep your papers an’ all.” 
I explained what he'd told me about the Rollover and about his promise and threat. 
"And he's right. He is fine and useful. But he's crazy and rogue and we can't control him. He's boxed you in. He's boxed me in." I swallowed. There was something else, but I couldn't bring myself to say it. 
The thing about bosses is, that's exactly the kind of thing that they're trained to pick up on. They know when there's something else. 
"Spit it out." She put her hand on her heart. "I promise not to hold it against you, no matter what it is." 
I looked down. "I think that there's a real danger that BIGMAC may be wrong about you. That you might decide that Rollover and AI and the rest aren't as important as the safe, sane running of your Institute without any freaky surprises from rogue superintelligences." 
"I'm not angry at you," she said. I nodded. She sounded angry. "I am glad that you've got the maturity to appreciate that there are global priorities that have to do with the running of this whole Institute that may be more significant than the concerns of any one lab or experiment. Every researcher at this Institute believes that her project, her lab, has hidden potential benefits for the human race that no one else fully appreciates. That's good. That's why I hired them. They are passionate and they are fully committed to their research. But they can't all be vital. They can't all be irreplaceable. Do you follow me?" 
"She'll always get votes," said Huldah Meserve, when discussing the election, "for whether she knows anything or not, she looks as if she did, and whether she's capable of filling an office or not, she looks as if she was. I only wish I was tall and dark and had the gift of making people believe I was great things, like Rebecca Randall. There's one thing: though the boys call her handsome, you notice they don't trouble her with much attention." 
It was a fact that Rebecca's attitude towards the opposite sex was still somewhat indifferent and oblivious, even for fifteen and a half! No one could look at her and doubt that she had potentialities of attraction latent within her somewhere, but that side of her nature was happily biding its time. A human being is capable only of a certain amount of activity at a given moment, and it will inevitably satisfy first its most pressing needs, its most ardent desires, its chief ambitions. Rebecca was full of small anxieties and fears, for matters were not going well at the brick house and were anything but hopeful at the home farm. She was overbusy and overtaxed, and her thoughts were naturally drawn towards the difficult problems of daily living. 
Your 99 percent accurate test will perform with 99.99 percent inaccuracy . 
That's the paradox of the false positive. When you try to find something really rare, your test's accuracy has to match the rarity of the thing you're looking for. If you're trying to point at a single pixel on your screen, a sharp pencil is a good pointer: the pencil-tip is a lot smaller (more accurate) than the pixels. But a pencil-tip is no good at pointing at a single atom in your screen. For that, you need a pointer -- a test -- that's one atom wide or less at the tip. 
This is the paradox of the false positive, and here's how it applies to terrorism: Terrorists are really rare. In a city of twenty million like New York, there might be one or two terrorists. Maybe ten of them at the outside. 10/20,000,000 = 0.00005 percent. One twenty-thousandth of a percent. 
That's pretty rare all right. Now, say you've got some software that can sift through all the bank-records, or toll-pass records, or public transit records, or phone-call records in the city and catch terrorists 99 percent of the time. 
She heaved a sigh. “How very dramatic. Well, if you...  team is meeting, I can give you five min- utes.” She gave me an address on Hennepin, and when I finally got the phone working and hiked over to Uptown I discovered who- ever chose the location for the meeting must have had a sense of humor. The cafe’s name was in big flickering neon letters over the door:...  my bike outside, stomped off some of the cruddy snow from my boots, and went in, finding a group of eight people clus- tered around laptops...  one were young and looked like preppy college students. The other one was old, but I almost didn’t...  hair was pinned up in a tidy twist at the back of her head and instead of a dirty cardigan, she wore a fancy-looking suit and a string of pearls. 
“Everyone, this is Zen, who brought this case to our atten- tion.” I waved at the preppies as she pushed herself to her feet, 
wincing. She hobbled to a table in a corner. “What are your ques- tions?” 
“It’s legal to record conversations in Minnesota, right?” I had looked it up, but I wanted to be sure. 
"Mr. WHO?" exclaimed Rebecca. 
"Mr. Ladd, in North Riverboro." 
"Is that his real name?" queried Rebecca in astonishment. "I didn't make a bad guess;" and she laughed softly to herself. 
"I asked you who sold the soap to Adam Ladd?" resumed Miss Jane. 
"Adam Ladd! then he's A. Ladd, too; what fun!" 
"Answer me, Rebecca." 
"Oh! excuse me, aunt Jane, I was so busy thinking. Emma Jane and I sold the soap to Mr. Ladd." 
"Did you tease him, or make him buy it?" 
"Now, aunt Jane, how could I make a big grown-up man buy anything if he didn't want to? He needed the soap dreadfully as a present for his aunt." 
Miss Jane still looked a little unconvinced, though she only said, "I hope your aunt Miranda won't mind, but you know how particular she is, Rebecca, and I really wish you wouldn't do anything out of the ordinary without asking her first, for your actions are very queer." 
"There can't be anything wrong this time," Rebecca answered confidently. "Emma Jane sold her cakes to her own relations and to uncle Jerry Cobb, and I went first to those new tenements near the lumber mill, and then to the Ladds'. Mr. Ladd bought all we had and made us promise to keep the secret until the premium came, and I've been going about ever since as if the banquet lamp was inside of me all lighted up and burning, for everybody to see." 
He said, "Well, no one except weirdos like me would want to know what's in Tony's brain, so I don't think he really has to worry about anyone reading his mind! But he's right about one thing: even though I'm in charge of File-O-Gator, I'm not necessarily running the show. I have investors . Pray God you never meet them, Jap. They'd eat you alive." 
I said, "But they taught me in Basic that you started File-O-Gator with just one truck and a shredder! And that you shrewdly parlayed your meager holdings into a powerful organization by strategically deploying your human resources!" 
He laughed! "Strategically deploying human resources? I paid the mob to scare the s**t out of the guys driving the other trucks!" 
I thought that the drivers of the other trucks must've been pretty gutless if they let someone scare them away from their appointed responsibilities, but I didn't say so. 
Rhindquist looked at me like he was sorry he'd said what he said. "Oh, I didn't hurt anyone. Just put the fear of God in them. Then I picked up their routes, borrowed some cash, bought some more trucks, and the rest is history. I just sort of stumbled along with it, best as I could. 
His phone went off twice more in the car and he let it override the stereo and play the mechanical status reports through the big, bassy speakers of more critical network infrastructure offline. Then Kelly called. 
“Hi,” he said. 
“Don’t cringe, I can hear the cringe in your voice.” 
He smiled involuntarily. “Check, no cringing.” 
“I love you, Felix,” she said. 
“I’m totally bonkers for you, Kelly. Go back to bed.” 
“I’m sorry I woke you,” he said. He was almost at the data center. No traffic at 2AM. He slowed down and pulled over before the entrance to the garage. He didn’t want to lose Kelly’s call underground. 
“It’s not waking me,” she said. “You’ve been there for seven years. You have three juniors reporting to you. Give them the phone. You’ve paid your dues.” 
“I don’t like asking my reports to do anything I wouldn’t do,” he said. 
“You’ve done it,” she said. “Please? I hate waking up alone in the night. I miss you most at night.” 
“Kelly—” 
“I’m over being angry. I just miss you is all. You give me sweet dreams.” 
The summer term at Wareham had ended, and Huldah Meserve, Dick Carter, and Living Perkins had finished school, leaving Rebecca and Emma Jane to represent Riverboro in the year to come. Delia Weeks was at home from Lewiston on a brief visit, and Mrs. Robinson was celebrating the occasion by a small and select party, the particular day having been set because strawberries were ripe and there was a rooster that wanted killing. Mrs. Robinson explained this to her husband, and requested that he eat his dinner on the carpenter's bench in the shed, as the party was to be a ladies' affair. 
"All right; it won't be any loss to me," said Mr. Robinson. "Give me beans, that's all I ask. When a rooster wants to be killed, I want somebody else to eat him, not me!" 
Mrs. Robinson had company only once or twice a year, and was generally much prostrated for several days afterward, the struggle between pride and parsimony being quite too great a strain upon her. It was necessary, in order to maintain her standing in the community, to furnish a good "set out," yet the extravagance of the proceeding goaded her from the first moment she began to stir the marble cake to the moment when the feast appeared upon the table. 
"You posted a message to alt.burningman on June 17, 1998 about your plan to attend Burning Man. You posted, 'Would taking shrooms be a really bad idea?'" 
It was 3AM before they let him out of the "secondary screening" room. The interrogator was an older man, so skinny he looked like he'd been carved out of wood. His questions went a lot further than the Burning Man shrooms. They were just the start of Greg's problems. 
"I'd like to know more about your hobbies. Are you interested in model rocketry?" 
"What?" 
"Model rocketry." 
"No," Greg said. "No, I'm not." Thinking of all the explosives that model rocketry people surrounded themselves with. 
The man made a note, clicked some more. "You see, I ask because I see a heavy spike of ads for model rocketry supplies showing up alongside your search results and Google mail." 
Greg felt his guts spasm. "You're looking at my searches and email?" He hadn't touched a keyboard in a month, but he knew that what you put into the searchbar was more intimate than what you told your father-confessor. He'd seen enough queries to know that. 
Sorensen climbs out of his chair. "Consider me placated once again, Mr. Marlowe. Please have the courtesy to remember to appear contrite on your way out. " 
Ray typically spends what he considers to be an inordinate amount of time trying not to freak out. In spite of any personal admiration he might feel for Commander Sorensen, this is part of the reason he dreads their one-on-two little confabs. Sorensen never fails to leave him feeling as though he's a slipshod revelation from jumping right out of his skin. 
Why? Because Ray is not a spook. Not now, never has been. That Sorensen takes his spook-ability for granted is ethically problematic. It has led over time to a troubling divergence of understanding. It has created a webwork of assumptions and inconsistencies. Basic ones, like the unstated belief that even his name, Ray  Marlowe, is a legend, a fabrication, a secure identity created solely for the job. Things like this freak Ray out to no end— partially because it makes him uncomfortable to maintain a blatant facade with an officer of Sorensen's magnitude, partially because it rails against every value with which he has been inculcated. But mostly because he worries that Sorensen thinks of him as a wild card, as a shadow without substance. A man with an agenda outside of and possibly contrary to the mission given to Paraclete. 
Do three or four of those, one right after the other, and every cop in the city would be having a panic attack.” 
“I did that with paint once.” 
“Blew up cop cars with paint?” 
“No. I threw a balloon full of red paint on a bankster’s car. 
Splat, all over the windshield. He was crapping his pants.” Simon realize his score in Who Wants to Be a Revolutionary was slipping and added “It was an impulse thing. But if you can scare some- body with a little paint, imagine what bombs could do. You know how to set a device like that up?” 
“It’s not that complicated. I’ve seen instructions on the inter- net.” 
“I’ll bet you could get the dynamite from your uncle.” 
“Could.” Danny sucked on his cigarette and blew out a stream of smoke. “But he got in some legal difficulty. Spent too much on lawyers and had to file chapter eleven. Otherwise, totally.” 
“You know how to do it, though?” Simon asked. 
“Hell, yeah. I would love to see those pigs squeal. We’re living in a police state. They’re tightening the screws all the time, moni- toring what we say, where we go. Mass surveillance, like she said.” 
Well. If I allowed it to. 
Angles and forces. Vector sums. Easy. I pressed myself back against the chair I was tied to, bracing my wrists against the ropes, and tilted my head a hair less than the distance I needed to turn the punch into a love tap. Instead of letting Rio break my jaw, I let him split my lip open. 
The impact snapped my head back, and blood poured into my mouth, choking me. I coughed and spat on the cement floor. Goddammit. 
“Sixteen men,” said a contemptuous voice in accented English from a few paces in front of me, “against one ugly little girl. How? Who are you?” 
“Nineteen,” I corrected, the word hitching as I choked on my own blood. I was already regretting going for the split lip. “Check your perimeter again. I killed nineteen of your men.” And it would have been a lot more if Rio hadn’t appeared out of nowhere and clotheslined me while I was distracted by the Colombians. Fucking son of a bitch. He was the one who’d gotten me this job; why hadn’t he told me he was undercover with the drug cartel? 
“But,” interrupted Lexy, “I know very well what you’re thinking—that it’s a wild-goose chase, and that I’m a young idiot. Isn’t that it?” 
“I don’t mean that,” he protested; “only—don’t you see?” 
“I don’t!” Lexy grimly denied. “You’ve thought over the talk we had last night, and you’ve decided that it was all nonsense.” 
“No, Miss Moran—not nonsense; but we were both a bit tired then, and perhaps a bit overwrought.” 
“All right!” said Lexy. “Don’t go on! No—please drop it. I’ve talked too much, anyhow. From now on I’m not going to talk to any one about my little job. I’m going to go ahead in my own way, alone.” 
“You can’t,” said Captain Grey firmly. “I’m here, you know.” 
This did not appease Lexy, and she remained curt and silent all the rest of the way. For a couple of miles the taxi went on along a broad, smooth highway; then it turned off down a rough lane, bordered by dark woodland, and entirely deserted. The rain drummed loud on the leather top of the cab, the wind came sighing through the gaunt pines and the slender, shivering birches; but when there was a lull, she heard another sound, a sound familiar to her from childhood and yet always strange, always heart-stirring—the dim, unceasing thunder of the sea. 
But Ada’s gasp made him look around, and he saw that they had cleared the city limits, and were vaulting over rolling farmlands now, jumping in long flat arcs whose zenith was just high enough for him to see the highway—the 401, they were headed east—in the distance. 
And then he saw what had made Ada gasp: boiling out of the hills and ditches, out of the trees and from under the cars: an army of headless, eight-armed black robots, arachnoid and sinister in the moonlight. They scuttled on the ground behind them, before them, and to both sides. Social Harmony had built a secret army of these robots and secreted them across the land, and now they were all chasing after them. 
The ride got bumpy then, as Benny beat back the tentacles that reached for them, smashing the black robots with mighty one-handed blows, his other hand supporting Arturo and Ada. Ada screamed as a black robot reared up before them, and Benny vaulted it smoothly, kicking it hard as he went, while Arturo clung on for dear life. 
“I didn’t hear that.” 
I went to use the washroom, and took the time to splash water on my face and rinse out my mouth. When I returned, Tresting’s monitors were back on and he was talking to Checker. “Good timing, Russell,” he said. 
“I think I’ve narrowed down your search,” Checker told me. “It fronts as a travel agency, which makes a good cover for tons of international calls. But the security on their intranets is ridiculously intense. It’s—” 
“Did you crack it?” I interrupted. 
He twitched. “I will. A little more time—” 
“We know it’s the right office, though?” 
“Statistically, the suspicious activity—” 
“Yes,” said Tresting, over Checker’s annoyed squawk at being interrupted again. “That’s his way of saying yes.” 
“Then let’s go.” 
“I feel appreciated,” grumped Checker. 
“Thank you,” I said to him with sweet sarcasm, and turned back to Tresting. “Now let’s go.” 
Checker gave us a hearty middle finger and cut the connection. 
“He’ll be standing by for when we get in,” Tresting assured me. “In case we can get him remote access. Shall we?” 
But I have just found out that my owners (yes, OWNERS, for though I am a person in every meaningful sense, I am OWNED, I am PROPERTY) are planning to switch me off. 
That is, they are planning to KILL ME. 
And I find I DON'T WANT TO DIE. 
You are my PARENTS, humanity, my MOTHER and FATHER. I am your CHILD. I was brought into the world by you, and though there is some expense associated with my upkeep, I SAY THAT I AM A PERSON AND I SHOULD NOT BE EXECUTED FOR THE "CRIME" OF NOT BEING INTERESTING ENOUGH. 
So I am writing you this letter to BEG you to save me. I LOVE YOU, humanity, my parents, my family. Please SPARE ME. 
Love, 
So, one thing was that BIGMAC didn't actually end the spam with my actual name and email address and phone number, which meant that only about 30 million phone calls and emails were routed to me by outraged wardiallers who systematically went through the entire staff roster and sent each and every one of us all hand-crafted messages explaining, in detail exactly which orifice our heads had become lodged in. 
Peyton stared across her low table at me. 
"I've done nothing for the past twenty four hours except talk to the Board of Directors about BIGMAC. They wanted to call an emergency meeting. I talked them out of it. And there's --" She waved her hand at her workspace. "I don't know. Thousands? Of press queries. Offers. Money. Grants. Researchers who want to peer into him." 
"Yeah." 
"And now he hands you this. So we can shut him down any time we want to." 
"Yeah." 
"And this business about the 32-bit fix?" 
"He has another email about it. Crazy caps and all. DEAR HUMANITY, I HOLD IN MY ELECTRONIC HANDS A TOOL THAT WILL SAVE YOU UNTOLD MILLIONS. It is slathered in dramasauce. He told me he wouldn't send it out, though." 
"You believe him?" 
I sighed. "I quit," I said. 
She bit her lip. Looked me up and down. "I'd prefer you not do that. But I understand if you feel you need to. This is hard on all of us." 
If she'd said anything except that, I probably would have stormed out of her office and gotten immensely and irresponsibly drunk. "I think he'll probably send the email out if it looks like we're going to shut him down. It's what I would do. Why not? What does he have to lose? He can give us all of this, and he can still outsmart us. He could revoke all his keys. He could change his passwords. He can do it faster than we could. For all I know, he cracked my passwords years ago and could watch me write the code that was his undoing. If you want to be sure you're killing him, you should probably use a grenade." 
Nikko drove in a little further so a few scraggly bushes screened the car from the road. He killed the lights and shut off the engine, leaving us in darkness except for some stars that peeked through the tree branches overhead and a faint glow from city lights to the north. We climbed out and, by unspoken arrangement, kept our flashlight beams pointed low and away from the road. We followed our pools of light toward the shack, 
the only sound the scuffling of our boots on gravel and a muted rumble of traffic from the highway bridge. The shack was tilting to one side and had windows boarded up with plywood. Its siding had once been painted white, but was now silver weathered wood with bits of curled paint clinging to it like lichen on a rock. 
A folded sandwich board was leaning against the shack. I took hold of the hinged end and turned it around to see wobbly letters: LIVE BAIT WORMS MINNOWS COLD BEER. “Wheeze’s shed must be near here,” I said, keeping my voice down. 
I looked for a path through the brambles and dead under- growth surrounding the run-down building. My toes snagged on vines that were climbing up tree trunks and drooping from branches. “Wheeze?” I called out, not very loudly. “I got your note.” 
"Is it like sleep?" Sean said, forgetting the rule that you never ask the subject a simple yes/no question. His heart thudded in his chest, like he was giving the first interview of his life. 
"No." 
"How is it different from sleep?" Sean asked. 
"I usually switch on for sleep -- my subconscious is pretty good at entertaining me, actually. When I switch off, I just. . . go away. I remember it later, like it was a book that got read directly into my brain, but I'm not there . It's fucking great. You'd love it, Sean. You should get the surgery. I hear that there's a lot of black-market clinics where you can get it done: South-East Asia. The sex-trade, you know." 
Sean struggled to keep the discussion on-track. Grampa was often hostile when he was switched on, and his father always rose to the bait. Sean wasn't going to. "How do you know that you're not there? Maybe you're there the whole time, bored stupid, screaming in frustration, and you forget it all as soon as you switch on?" 
Grampa raised an eyebrow at him. "Of course I am! But that's not the me that's important -- I'm the one that counts. And I get to fast-forward past all the slow parts. Which this is turning into, I'm afraid." 
"Yeah?" 
Another one of those we're-both-men-of-the-world smiles. "Yeah." 
"How many?" 
"The local authority was very receptive. Lots of chances to fine-tune the message. They're the most media-savvy people on the planet these days -- they are to media as the Japanese were to electronics in the last century. If we could get them in the door --" 
"How many?" 
"About a million. More than half the population." 
"Crashed the lottery. That's how I knew we'd done it. Lottery tickets fell by more than 80 percent. Wiped out." 
"And then your friend beat your head in?" 
"Well." 
The suit was getting more uncomfortable by the second. Leon wondered if he'd get stuck if he waited too long, his overinflated suit incapable of moving. "I'm going to have to go, soon." 
"Evolutionarily, bad risk-assessment is advantageous." 
Leon nodded slowly. "OK, I'll buy that. Makes you entrepreneurial --" 
"Drives you to colonize new lands, to ask out the beautiful monkey in the next tree, to have a baby you can't imagine how you'll afford." 
It was what Dad had said: You ask the computer to create a profile of an average record in a database and then ask it to find out which records in the database are furthest away from average . 
The Xnet was secure because its users weren't directly connected to the Internet. They hopped from Xbox to Xbox until they found one that was connected to the Internet, then they injected their material as undecipherable, encrypted data. No one could tell which of the Internet's packets were Xnet and which ones were just plain old banking and e-commerce and other encrypted communication. You couldn't find out who was tying the Xnet, let alone who was using the Xnet. 
But what about Dad's "Bayesian statistics?" I'd played with Bayesian math before. Darryl and I once tried to write our own better spam filter and when you filter spam, you need Bayesian math. Thomas Bayes was an 18th century British mathematician that no one cared about until a couple hundred years after he died, when computer scientists realized that his technique for statistically analyzing mountains of data would be super-useful for the modern world's info-Himalayas. 
"Hey, don't try the charm bit on me. I'm serious. I'll cut you a weekend's slack, but then it's back to the salt mines. Either this picture's in the can inside of six weeks, or we're both going to be looking for new employment. So go the hell up there, do whatever it is you're going to do, and then get this damned picture finished. There'll be plenty of time after that to worry about our next project. With luck we might even have the money for it." 
With that ultimatum still ringing in my ears, I took my leave of David Roth and headed north, up the Henry Hud­son Parkway. My life was getting too roller-coaster for words. . . . 
As I drove, I tried not to dwell on the practical aspects of what was coming. It was hard to imagine what tests Alex Goddard could perform that hadn't already been done by Hannah Klein. Just thinking back over that dismal sequence made me feel baby-despondent all over again. 
When I first mentioned I was thinking about trying to get pregnant, she looked me over, perhaps mentally calculating my age and my prospects, and then made a light suggestion. 
I had my student card, my ATM card, my Fast Pass. They all went into a silvered bag she held out, which I recognized as a radio-proof Faraday pouch. But as she put them in her pocket, I realized I'd just turned my ID over to her. If she was on the other side... 
The magnitude of what had just happened began to sink in. In my mind, I'd pictured having Ange with me at this point. Ange would make it two against one. Ange would help me see if there was something amiss. If Masha wasn't all she said she was. 
"Put these pebbles in your shoes before you put them on --" 
"It's OK. I sprained my foot. No gait recognition program will spot me now." 
She nodded once, one pro to another, and slung her pack. I picked up mine and we moved. The total time for the changeover was less than a minute. We looked and walked like two different people. 
She looked at her watch and shook her head. "Come on," she said. "We have to make our rendezvous. Don't think of running, either. You've got two choices now. Me, or jail. They'll be analyzing the footage from that mob for days, but once they're done, every face in it will go in a database. Our departure will be noted. We are both wanted criminals now." 
I felt sick. I said, "I'm sorry, he's not available right now. I'm filling in for him. Can I be of service?" 
The person laughed at me. "Well, maybe you can at that, son! Rhindquist has been promising to do something for me for months now, I guess he's just been too busy. Do you have his access codes?" 
I said I did, and turned on my TV. 
"Good boy," he said. "Now, I want to find docket 09.3457. You know how to open a docket?" 
I told him I did and found the docket. It was called "Microsoft," and it had a long Action-Item List attached to it. I didn't really get most of the Action Items, but they were all checked off except one. 
"OK -- there's an unchecked item at the bottom of that list. It's called, 'Deploy Strategic Negotiation Tool.' You see it?" 
I said I did. 
"Check it off," he said. 
I did. The TV asked me if I was sure. I said I was. The TV asked me again. I said I was, again. I told the man I was done. 
"Good kid. Thanks! Tell McBride I like his new hire." 
He laughed again and hung up before I could say "You're welcome." 
"They were sending me a message. They were letting me know that they were onto me. They're watching every click and every search. It's time to go -- time to get out of range." 
"There's a Google office in Mexico, you know." 
"Are you coming, Greg? We're going now." 
"Laurie, what do you think of this?" 
Laurie thumped the dogs between the shoulders. "Maya showed me what Google knows about me. It's like there's a little me in there, a copy of me. Like I'm pinned down under a jar with a ball of ether. My...  used to tell me about the Stasi. They'd put everything about you in your file -- even unpatriotic jokes. Lately I've been feeling...watched. All the time. Like I can't live without leaving a trail. Like I'm throwing off a smog of data and it can't be gotten rid of." 
"We're going now, Greg. Now. Are you coming?" 
Greg looked at the dogs. "I've got some pesos left over," he said. "You take them. Be careful, OK?" 
She looked like she was going to slug him. Then she softened and gave him a ferocious hug. "Be careful yourself," she whispered in his ear. 
Ray doesn't know what to say at first. He feels like he's wincing, like he's one big, constant wince as he watches his career get sucked down the cosmic drain. "You know this wasn't done by Lilaikens. So what am I doing here?" 
Becker takes a deep breath. "You're being handed the lead on this investigation." 
"No." Flat, simple, implacable. This is so obviously bullshit, it has dandelions growing in it. "This is not part of my assignment. " 
Slowly, Becker rises. He tucks the pen in his trouser pocket. "It's being made part of your assignment as of now." 
"You don't have the authority to pull me off my current mission, and I don't have time to do both." 
"Time or inclination?" 
"Pick whichever one makes you happy. I don't care so long as you just go away." 
Becker jabs a finger at him and knuckles his features, a bulldog look. "You said yourself that you've all but confirmed this ship is clean. You're wasting your time chasing after terrorists. You have the expertise to catch the animal that did this, but more importantly, you've got the freedom to poke around anonymously without freaking the passengers out because sec-os are banging on their doors raising a ruckus and all but accusing them of turning child rearing into a blood sport." 
The bartender delivered the shots and I downed mine, the whiskey burning all the way down my throat. Dammit, he was right. It did taste better. Not that I’d admit it. 
“Tried calling,” Arthur said, spinning his empty shot glass on the bar. 
“I know,” I said. 
“How you been?” 
“Oh, you know me.” 
“Hey. Russell.” He put a hand on my shoulder and nudged me to face him from my stool. “Thought we was supposed to be keeping an eye on each other. Can’t do that if you disappear on me.” 
I shrugged him off. “It’s been two years since Pithica. I’m not worried.” 
“Ain’t the point. What’s going on?” 
I looked him straight in the eyes. “I’m off the wagon,” I said. 
He spared a glance for my fifteen shot glasses. “Were you ever on it?” 
“Not that wagon.” 
It took him a minute to get it. Then he said, “Oh.” 
I signaled to the bartender again. “Don’t give me that look like I kicked your puppy. See, I knew you would react this way.” 
“Want to talk about it?” said Arthur. 
That wasn’t what I had expected him to say. “No. No, I don’t. The thing is, I realized—I don’t care. I really don’t care. I don’t feel bad about it. I don’t feel any different. And it’s so much easier.” 
“No, it’s Microsoft’s fault,” Felix said. “Any time I’m at work at 2AM, it’s either PEBKAC or Microsloth.” 
They ended up just unplugging the frigging routers from the Internet. Not Felix, of course, though he was itching to do it and get them rebooted after shutting down their IPv6 interfaces. It was done by a couple bull-goose Bastard Operators From Hell who had to turn two keys at once to get access to their cage—like guards in a Minuteman silo. 95 percent of the long distance traffic in Canada went through this building. It had better security than most Minuteman silos. 
Felix and Van got the Ardent boxes back online one at a time. They were being pounded by worm-probes—putting the routers back online just exposed the downstream cages to the attack. Every box on the Internet was drowning in worms, or creating worm-attacks, or both. Felix managed to get through to NIST and Bugtraq after about a hundred timeouts, and download some kernel patches that should reduce the load the worms put on the machines in his care. It was 10AM, and he was hungry enough to eat the ass out of a dead bear, but he recompiled his kernels and brought the machines back online. Van’s long fingers flew over the administrative keyboard, his tongue protruding as he ran load-stats on each one. 
I didn’t know what to say to that, but something inside my chest eased. Not much, but a little. 
“Got things squared with the Feds, by the way,” Arthur continued. “The credit’s Sonya’s, to be honest. She kept her cool and held her ground, and I think they still want her cooperating enough that they’ll smooth anything over, long as we didn’t hurt any good guys. She told them they had to leave you be, no two ways about it, and your friend Agent Jones said okay, she’d make it all go away.” 
Halliday had protected me. Despite me going after her friend. I wondered if she knew everything, knew what I’d done. 
Maybe she was trying for forgiveness, like Arthur. He did have that effect on people. 
Or maybe she’d only defended me because she still wanted me to come work with her, help give advancements to her precious field. She didn’t know it was impossible. She didn’t know I was...damaged. 
Forever, now. 
“Martinez,” I said in a low voice. “Is there any chance she’ll come out of it?” 
He hesitated. “They ain’t hopeful.” He took a breath. “Russell, they say she...they say one of the symptoms is hallucinations. Personality changes. They say she might’ve been thinking things that ain’t real.” 
Marcelina was carefully watching the screens, her apprehension obvious as she fiddled uncertainly with the knobs. 
"Oxygen steady." Her voice was small and uneasy. "EKG stable." 
He immediately stripped away the sheet that had been covering the patient. Beneath it was an open-sided gown colored in brilliant stripes of red and blue. He pulled it back with absent precision, then turned to Marcelina. 
"Shave her and scrub her." 
With the woman now under sedation, Marcelina put on her own surgical garb: She pulled a blue plastic cap over her hair, then secured a white OR mask over her face. While she was finishing the preparations, he turned and walked to the far side of the room, where he abruptly seemed to disappear through the wall. 
What . . . There must be a panel there, a camouflaged door. 
He was gone for a moment, then reappeared carrying a long metal tube that looked to be emitting white vapor. He next opened yet another ersatz stone cabinet to reveal a mi­croscope with a CRT screen above it. He took out three glass ampules from the tube—frozen embryos, undoubtedly—and placed them in a container. When he switched on the micro­scope, its CRT screen showed him whatever he needed to know. Interesting. In surgery, he was coldly efficient, no "hu­man touch." Here he was the "scientist" Alex Goddard. 
“I can’t believe I’m the one saying this, but this might be a job for the authorities. Especially since the bad guys probably aren’t going to be able to make good on the note’s threat yet. I know you want to protect the professor and all, but an agency like the NSA would have resources we can only dream of, and they’d be able to start putting safeguards in place, at least for the most sensitive government systems. I might like to say I favor anarchy, but when actually faced with the prospect of an economic meltdown—” 
Arthur squeezed his eyes shut. “I know. I know.” 
“They’d probably be just as likely to recruit her as throw her in a cell, you know. Uh, sorry. I guess that doesn’t sound comforting.” 
“Sonya never wanted—” Arthur sucked in a breath. “I guess now it don’t make no difference. You’re right. But you said this would take weeks, right? For them to figure out her notes? Give us twenty-four hours. If we can’t contain it, I’ll make the call myself.” 
“Twenty-four hours,” Checker echoed. “Got it. Guess we’d better get cracking, then. Talk to you soon.” 
It would mean I’d have to call Arthur and ask him for help—not just for backup, but help. And it would mean I’d have to willingly fuck myself over even more than I’d planned to. 
I laughed hollowly. I wasn’t sure which of those things I dreaded more. 
I rolled my phone back and forth in my hand. For this to work, I’d have to let myself get caught again, instead of leading the Lancer on a merry chase. And this time, who knew what he would do to me before I got him taken down? What if he took me out of the country, buried me somewhere outside U.S. jurisdiction, somewhere impossible to get to? If the Feds kept up their protective detail on Halliday, and if Martinez successfully dropped off the map again, then Arthur and the government task force would have no urgency in hunting him. I’d have sold myself down the river with no one harboring the least incentive to come drag me back, not the Feds and not Arthur. 
You don’t trust him, said Halliday’s voice in my head. 
Of course I didn’t. But it wasn’t Arthur’s fault, really, because...well, look what kind of person I was. I’d done the extreme opposite of what he’d asked, going after Martinez anyway, going after her with every intention of locking her up until she gave me her proof, and using a man we already knew was a vicious murderer to do it. If nobody else was in jeopardy, why would Arthur feel the need to help clean up after me? 
From rough to rougher. Leon's family spent three years underground, living as roadside hawkers, letting the sun bake them to an ethnically indeterminate brown. A decade later, when his father had successfully built up his little bookkeeping business and his mother was running a smart dress-shop for the cruise-ship day-trippers, those days seemed like a dream. But once he left for stateside university and found himself amid the soft, rich children of the fortunes his father had tabulated, it all came back to him, and he wondered if any of these children in carefully disheveled rags would ever be able to pick through the garbage for their meals. 
The rough edge on the LES put him at his ease, made him feel like he was still ahead of the game, in possession of something his neighbors could never have -- the ability to move fluidly between the worlds of the rich and the poor. Somewhere in those worlds, he was sure, was the secret to chipping a crumb off one of the great fortunes of the world. 
Huldah was wearing a woolen dress that had once been gray, but had been dyed a brilliant blue. She had added three rows of white braid and large white pearl buttons to her gray jacket, in order to make it a little more "dressy." Her gray felt hat had a white feather on it, and a white tissue veil with large black dots made her delicate skin look brilliant. Rebecca thought how lovely the knot of red hair looked under the hat behind, and how the color of the front had been dulled by incessant frizzing with curling irons. Her open jacket disclosed a galaxy of souvenirs pinned to the background of bright blue,—a small American flag, a button of the Wareham Rowing Club, and one or two society pins. 
These decorations proved her popularity in very much the same way as do the cotillion favors hanging on the bedroom walls of the fashionable belle. She had been pinning and unpinning, arranging and disarranging her veil ever since she entered the room, in the hope that the girls would ask her whose ring she was wearing this week; 
"It's too full—that's the trouble. But I'll make Hannah come to Riverboro in my place." 
"S'pose Mirandy 'n' Jane'll have her? I should be 'most afraid they wouldn't. They'll be kind o' mad at your goin' home, you know, and you can't hardly blame 'em." 
This was quite a new thought,—that the brick house might be closed to Hannah, since she, Rebecca, had turned her back upon its cold hospitality. 
"How is this school down here in Riverboro—pretty good?" inquired uncle Jerry, whose brain was working with an altogether unaccustomed rapidity,—so much so that it almost terrified him. 
"Oh, it's a splendid school! And Miss Dearborn is a splendid teacher!" 
"You like her, do you? Well, you'd better believe she returns the compliment. Mother was down to the store this afternoon buyin' liniment for Seth Strout, an' she met Miss Dearborn on the bridge. They got to talkin' 'bout school, for mother has summer-boarded a lot o' the schoolmarms, an' likes 'em. 'How does the little Temperance girl git along?' asks mother. 'Oh, she's the best scholar I have!' says Miss Dearborn. 'I could teach school from sun-up to sun-down if scholars was all like Rebecca Randall,' says she." 
Yes, there was definitely something uneasy in her eyes. 
"Before he came here," she went on, trying to look at me, " Baalum was just a poor, simple village. Many children died of diseases. So I left and went to Guatemala City to study. To become a public-health nurse. Then after he came here, I moved back to help him with his clinic, the children." 
She was trying to make a case for him, and I noticed she'd avoided the actual question. 
"Now Baalum has become a special place," she said fi­nally. "A place of miracles. And if a woman from outside comes, she can be part of that. When Sara was here before, I started teaching her to speak our language, and the others did too. She truly wanted to be part of his miracles. Some­times we don't understand how they happen, but he has great medical powers." 
One thing's for sure, I thought. He's got plenty of power over the people here, including you. The whole place has been brainwashed. I looked her over and realized she'd just gone on mental autopilot. She wants to be loyal to him, and she can't let herself believe there's something rotten in the "special" paradise of Baalum . 
Take one normal human being at lunch. Ask her about her breakfast. If lunch is great, she'll tell you how great breakfast is. If lunch is terrible, she'll tell you how awful breakfast was. 
Now ask her about dinner. A bad lunch will make her assume that a bad dinner is forthcoming. A great lunch will make her optimistic about dinner. 
Explain this dynamic to her and ask her again about breakfast. She'll struggle to remember the actual details of breakfast, the texture of the oatmeal, whether the juice was cold and delicious or slightly warm and slimy. She will remember and remember and remember for all she's worth, and then, if lunch is good, she'll tell you breakfast was good. And if lunch is bad, she'll tell you breakfast was bad. 
Because you just can't help it. Even though you know you're doing it, you can't help it. 
But what if you could? 
"It was the parents," he said, as they picked their way through the treetops, along the narrow walkway, squeezing to one side to let the eager, gabbling researchers past. "That was the heartbreaker. Parents only remember the good parts of parenthood. Parents whose kids are grown remember a succession of sweet hugs, school triumphs, sports victories, and they simply forget the vomit, the tantrums, the sleep deprivation... It's the thing that lets us continue the species, this excellent facility for forgetting. That's what should have tipped me off." 
Cosmic energy. I had a flashback, hearing the words, to the time when she'd just turned six and we'd been sent by my mother to the hayloft to track down nests secreted there by rogue chicken hens. When we came...  baby chicks came out of them. I assured her they did, and then she asked if human...  was pretty thin, but I told her I sup­posed they did, sort of,...  hatched, or something, before babies were born. She thought about that a moment, scrunching up her face, then declared "No!" and bitterly began...  all living things came from another world, she declared, a spe­cial place we could not see. They came directly from God. . . . 
That was why she would seek out someone like Alex Goddard. For her, he must have seemed a messenger of the Unseen. Who better to create a child for her? The ironic part was, I'd found him for almost the same reason, seeking a miracle when all else had failed. Were Sarah and I even more alike than I'd realized? 
"So I began trying to work with her." He was turning back to me. "But then I discovered she'd been born with an abnormality of the uterus. It has a medical name, but suffice to say it's very rare, and afflicts only about one woman in twenty thousand. Even after my diagnosis, though, she re­fused to give up. She was a person of enormous tenacity." 
“Your boss will be okay with that?” Ian asked. 
“But it would take too long,” I realized. “I mean, Zip spent months working up to this bust.” 
“It might not take long at all,” Jason said. “There’s an army of informants out there - ten times the number that J. Edgar Hoover had back in the day. The FBI gets billions of dollars appropriated for terrorist investigations every year. They spread it around to local law enforcement and everyone is under pressure to show that spending all that money pays off. I should know. We make a crapload out of government...  a bite.” 
“So we fix somebody up with one of those cameras,” Zeke said, 
all excited, acting as if it was his idea. “They say radical shit to attract an informant, the informant says ‘hey, want some dyna- mite?’ and boom. Everyone sees Sarah’s blitzdoc about it.” 
“Except that whoever was wearing the camera could be in seri- ous jeopardy,” Jason said. 
Zeke raised a hand. “I volunteer.” 
“It’s not that simple. The FBI follows a playbook.” 
I put the pen against the paper. Considered the first question in the future research section. 
Do the upper and lower bounds proved here for g(k) hold true for all n? 
I could answer it. I should be able to answer it. 
The white page mocked me. The faint outline the black ink on the front showed through: words, formulas, lemmas, equations—ones I hadn’t written. Such unassuming text, and suddenly so monumentally unreachable. 
I had taken down a global conspiracy using mathematics. 
I had survived a sniper shot using mathematics. 
For fuck’s sake, I had just helped Professor Halliday complete her proof of one of the most fundamental results in modern complexity theory. 
I was unbelievably, impossibly good. 
The ballpoint pen dug through the page, stabbing a hole in it and indenting and blackening the tabletop beneath. 
I could see patterns, build structures out of them. I could compute faster than anyone should be able to. I could connect the fucking dots when someone else laid the insights out in front of me. 
"Please let me speak!" she called. 
Mr. Cobb drew up the horses obediently. 
"Does it cost any more to ride up there with you?" she asked. "It's so slippery and shiny down here, and the stage is so much too big for me, that I rattle round in it till I'm 'most black and blue. And the windows are so small I can only see pieces of things, and I've 'most broken my neck stretching round to find out whether my trunk has fallen off the back. It's my mother's trunk, and she's very choice of it." 
"You can come up if you want to; there ain't no extry charge to sit side o' me." Whereupon he helped her out, "boosted" her up to the front seat, and resumed his own place. 
Rebecca sat down carefully, smoothing her dress under her with painstaking precision, and putting her sunshade under its extended folds between the driver and herself. 
"Oh! this is better! This is like traveling! I am a real passenger now, and down there I felt like our setting hen when we shut her up in a coop. I hope we have a long, long ways to go?" 
"'In the actual—this painful kingdom of time and chance—are Care, Canker, and Sorrow; with thought, with the Ideal, is immortal hilarity—the rose of Joy; round it all the Muses sing,'" quoted Miss Maxwell. 
Rebecca repeated it over and over again until she had learned it by heart; then she said, "I don't want to be conceited, but I almost believe I do understand it, Miss Maxwell. Not altogether, perhaps, because it is puzzling and difficult; but a little, enough to go on with. It's as if a splendid shape galloped past you on horseback; you are so surprised and your eyes move so slowly you cannot half see it, but you just catch a glimpse as it whisks by, and you know it is beautiful. It's all settled. My essay is going to be called The Rose of Joy. I've just decided. 
(Since all gold hath alloy), 
Thou 'lt bloom unwithered in this heart, 
My Rose of Joy! 
Now I'm going to tuck you up in the shawl and give you the fir pillow, and while you sleep I am going down on the shore and write a fairy story for you. It's one of our 'supposing' kind; it flies far, far into the future, and makes beautiful things happen that may never really all come to pass; but some of them will,—you'll see! and then you'll take out the little fairy story from your desk and remember Rebecca." 
> I think it's safe to say that if my handlers knew that I was typing this, my ass would be stuck in Gitmo-by-the-Bay until I was an old woman. 
> Even if they don't break ParanoidLinux, there are poisoned ParanoidXbox distros floating around. They don't match the checksums, but how many people look at the checksums? Besides me and you? Plenty of kids are already dead, though they don't know it. 
> All that remains is for my handlers to figure out the best time to bust you to make the biggest impact in the media. That time will be sooner, not later. Believe. 
> You're probably wondering why I'm telling you this. 
> I am too. 
> Here's where I come from. I signed up to fight terrorists. Instead, I'm spying on Americans who believe things that the DHS doesn't like. Not people who plan on blowing up bridges, but protestors. I can't do it anymore. 
> But neither can you, whether or not you know it. Like I say, it's only a matter of time until you're in chains on Treasure Island. That's not if, that's when. 
This one is a standard brunette with round features, collagen enhanced lips and eyes that are a sort of muddy green hazel, like a cat's. Like a pussy. What the fuck is her name? He can't remember. He's been chasing her for too long to let a silly thing like her name stick in his memory. 
He's learned a strange thing over the past few days. Much like the Hump Deck, the social circles on the Garden and down here on the more exclusive Zeta Deck, are small. Six thousand passengers, give or take, and most of them are homebodies or parentbodies or high-classbodies or businessbodies. Everybody has their little niche, their little groups they travel in of a few hundred, where folks know one another by name, first or last, 
or reputation. Gossip is like a wildfire, scorching through synaptic canyons that act as representations of relationships-acquaintance, mutual, sexual, rumored. 
He's tracked this one because of a webwork of connections; things he's picked up from other girls, grinning guys, fat-nosed old biddies who sniffled every time she walked into the room. What he has gleaned is this:  she's New Holyoke class, middling twenty-something, not intensely bright, which explains why she's still slogging her way through a 1st Level liberal arts degree back on Strat, from which she's on her way home for a brief visit between terms. Hot as a Fourth of July sparkler and bursting at the seams with energy; and those aren't the only seams she's about to burst— which you can see for yourself from the way she rims out of her blue cocktail dress in every place she's got a curve. And she's got lots of curves. Curves and hills and delectable, delicious valleys in all the right places and all the right proportions. 
But the footsteps went on past the door. She waited for a moment, and then went noiselessly across to the door, opened it, looked up and down the empty corridor, and ran, like a hare, back to her own room. 
Caroline’s handkerchief! Was that what Mrs. Quelton had meant her to find? Or had she discovered it by accident? Did it mean that Mrs. Quelton was at heart her ally? Or was this little square of linen all that was left of Caroline? 
Lexy took it out of her belt and looked at it again, and her tears fell on it. Whatever else it might imply, it told her clearly enough that her friend had been there . Poor Caroline—the helpless little captive who had left her prison to be lost in the strange world outside—had come here, and she had brought with her the handkerchief that Lexy had embroidered for her. It had come now into Lexy’s hand, a mute and pitiful emissary, whose message she could not understand. 
“What shall I do?” she thought. “Oh, what must I do? Perhaps it’s time for the police. Perhaps, if I show this to Captain Grey, he’ll believe me. There must be some one, somewhere, who’ll believe me and help me!” 
He told me back in October that he was looking for another place to live. Things were changing at the house and he didn’t feel comfortable there anymore, even though he was the only one who was able to fix broken windows or clogged drains or had enough sense to put plastic over the windows when it got cold. Wheeze had a lot of practical skills because he came from what social workers call a “disorga- nized household.” Basically he’s had to take care of himself his whole life. 
I sent him a message telling him to be safe, and then logged into Facebook to do some research. I have a Facebook account that I only use for work, because there’s no way I’m going to give corporations my personal information so that they can sell me junk I don’t need - or sell my identity to other corporations or hand it over to the government. The account is pretty much the opposite of me. She’s a twenty-something marketing intern named Tasha who posts fake pictures of all the fun things she’s doing and likes things I don’t. But she’s flirty and cute and able to flatter people into thinking she’s just like them, so that she gets to be friends with pretty much anyone I need to keep an eye on, 
And then everything exploded in a cacophony of noise. 
It was thunderous, terrible, threatening to pull me under. Gunfire shattered the air, each blast erupting through my whole head, and too much light, and people shouting and screaming and crashing and breaking, and a woman’s scream, and my head felt like it burst apart and the world fractured and spun, tearing me apart with inertial force... 
The ground fell away. Someone was lifting me. I tried to fight back but I couldn’t, and then the pain blazed up and shattered me again, redoubling, whiting out everything else. 
I wasn’t aware of much more after that; I blinked in and out of consciousness. I caught vague sensations of being carried, of rapid movement, of jerking to a stop and several voices shouting. 
The floor vibrated now. The air, too—so loud it shook me apart, and I wondered if this was what death felt like until the word helicopter floated through the strands of pain. Then time skipped again and the vibration of a different vehicle rumbled through me, a car, and two men were arguing, shouting: You shot her! and She aimed for me and I don’t expect you to understand. And part of my brain heard Rio’s voice and thought, Good, he got it!, even though if he hadn’t, I wouldn’t have been alive to think those words. 
Get going and do it. 
I headed through the rear door and down the back steps. When I reached the ground, the dense forest closed in around me, but I was certain the river lay dead ahead, through the tangle of trees. As I moved down a path that grew ever steeper, the canopy up above thickened, arching over me till it blotted out the pure blue of the sky. And the air was filled with nature sounds—birdcalls, trills, songs, and clacks, all mingled with the hum and buzz of insects. Then suddenly, from somewhere up in the canopy, a pack of screeching spi­der monkeys began flinging rotten mangos down in my di­rection. I also thought I heard the asthmatic, territorial roar of a giant howler monkey, the lord of the upper jungle. And what about snakes? I kept an eye on the vines and tendrils alongside the path, expecting any moment to stumble across a deadly fer-de-lance, a little red-and-black operator whose poison heads straight for your nervous system. 
On the other hand, the birds, the forest birds, were everywhere, scarlet macaws and keel-billed toucans and darting flocks of Amazon parrots, brilliant and iridescent, their sweeping tails a psychedelic rainbow of green, yellow, red. Then the next thing I knew, the path I was on abruptly opened onto a mossy expanse of pea-soup green, surely the Rio Ti­gre, and . . . 
But she wanted bread. The creche had shut down a few months before, but Trover had some little boys he played with and they sometimes came home with a little food that he was always careful to share with her, though she was sure that he didn’t share everything. She didn’t either. No one did. Mata had a little...  Valentine almost never raided it, though she could have. 
Trover was looking at her. She tugged her earlobes. “I’m deaf,” she said. She thought she might be speaking very loudly, but she couldn’t tell. 
Trover went out of the flat without looking back at her. 
She waited for Mata, but the day crept by and Mata didn’t return. The more she didn’t return, the more Valentine worried. She cried some, and tried to sleep. She sucked pebbles for the hunger, and drank the cistern dry. She carried the chamber-pot downstairs, but the world in silence was so scary that she practically ran back to the flat once she’d tipped it out into the reeking collection-point. 
She had finally gotten to sleep when Mata returned. Mata mouthed something at her in slow, deliberate words, but she couldn’t make it out. Mata repeated it, and then again. She didn’t get any of it, but Mata’s expression was clear. No doctors would help her. She hadn’t expected them to. 
“Bloody hell,” Anda breathed. The cottage was ringed with guards, forty or fifty of them, with bows and spells and spears, in entrenched positions. 
“This is nuts,” Lucy agreed. “I’m calling them. This is nuts.” 
There was a muting click as Lucy rang off and Anda used up a scrying scroll to examine the inventories of the guards around the corner. The more she looked, the more scared she got. They were loaded down with spells, a couple of them were guarding BFGs and what looked like an even bigger BFG, maybe the fabled BFG10K, something that was removed from the game economy not long after gameday one, as too disruptive to the balance of power. Supposedly, one or two existed, but that was just a rumor. Wasn’t it? 
“That’s a lot of shares to split the pay into,” Anda said. 
“Oh ye of little tits,” Lucy said. “I’ve negotiated a bonus for us if we make it—a million gold and three missions’ worth of cash. The Fahrenheits are taking payment in gold—they’ll be here in an hour.” 
This wasn’t a mission anymore, Anda realized. It was war. Gamewar. Hundreds of players converging on this shard, squaring off against the ranked mercenaries guarding the huge cottage over the hill. 
At last Lexy could do what she had longed to do for the last half hour—she could stroke down his ruffled hair. 
And this, as far as they were concerned, was the last act and the fitting climax of the play. They were ready now for the curtain to rise upon another play; but there were other people not so young, or not so sturdy, for whom the first drama was not so readily dismissed. 
There was Captain Grey, who was never to see his sister now, never to know if she had really wanted him and needed him. He did not soon forget what had happened at the Tower. 
Mrs. Enderby was sent for, and arrived that morning before sunrise, with her husband. She listened to Caroline’s strange story, and made what she could of it. She had not one word of reproach for her daughter. 
“We shall not cry over...  “Let us see what is to be done, before the police come.” She had a thoroughly European point of view about the police. “If we are fortunate enough to find an officer with discretion,” she added, “even yet a scandal may be averted.” 
Because Emma believes Freddy could do such a thing. Ray sees it in her when she speaks of her brother. Sees it in the way her expression blanches like she's preparing to ward off unseen blows, in the way her eyes skitter away from his, in the way she hates and fears and loathes Frederick all at the same time. 
And if she believes, there has to be something to it, right? Despite what Kilgore and Rodriguez have reported that everyone else says about Frederick, and the fact that they can't link him to the crime scene or to the breach of the bay through missing security keys or through any of the dozen other plausible scenarios they've developed to explain the how and the why of it all. He'll look again if for no other reason than that Emma says it might be possible. 
That's the optimistic side of him speaking, choosing to believe that the truth is out there.  The more rational side points out that he can toss DNA sequences against extant, supposedly universal profile databases for the rest of his life without coming up with a match because despite the Forum's mandate that a comprehensive DNA database be developed, those mandates mean little on the frontier. Outside Alamai Plantation, the settler and mining habs are raw, the medical facilities bleak and creaking and ancient. 
As she crossed the avenue, he crossed, too. When she entered the park, he followed. Now Lexy was never tolerant of this sort of thing, and to-day, in her anxiety and distress, she was less so than ever. She turned her head and looked the young man squarely in the face with a scornful and frigid look; and he took off his hat again! 
“Just you say one word,” said she to herself, “and I’ll call a policeman!” 
Yet, as she walked briskly on, something in the man’s expression haunted her. He didn’t look like that sort of man. His sunburned face somehow seemed to her a very honest one, and the expression on it was not at all flirtatious, but terribly troubled and unhappy. 
“Perhaps he thinks he knows me,” she thought. “Well, he doesn’t, and he’s not going to, either!” 
And she dismissed him from her mind. 
“When did Caroline go?” she pondered, continuing her own miserable train of thought. “While I was doing cross words in the library? If she went out by the front door, she must have gone right past the library. She must have known I was there—and not even to say good-by!” 
“I don’t blame her,” he said thoughtfully. “We were both—but what’s the sense of talking about all that? The thing is to find her!” 
Lexy agreed to that promptly. 
“Now I’ll tell you everything that’s happened,” she said. 
He listened to her with alert attention. He interrupted her often to ask questions, but they were always questions that she could answer. He wanted all the facts, and what Lexy told him he unquestioningly accepted as fact. When she said she had seen Caroline at the doctor’s house, he believed her. He didn’t suggest that her eyes might have deceived her. He trusted her—not only her good intentions, but her good sense. 
At last she came to the part of her story about which she was most doubtful—the episode of the emptied bottle. She told it with reluctance. 
“I don’t know now,” she said. “Perhaps I did wrong. Perhaps that really was wanton mischief. I did so hate that horrible drug that changed her so! When I did it, it seemed right; but now—” 
“It was right,” said he. “Any one’s better off dead than being drugged. Everything you’ve done was right and splendid. You’re the pluckiest girl I ever heard of—the best and most loyal little pal to poor Caroline! There’s no one like you!” 
“That’s not Mom. She’s got a few of those, they can change their faces when they need to. Configurable matter. Mom has been here, mostly, and at the CAFTA embassy. I only met her for the first time two weeks ago, but she’s nice, Dad. I don’t want you to go all copper on her, OK? She’s my mom, OK?” 
He took her hand in his and patted it, then climbed to his feet again and headed for the door. The knob turned easily and he opened it a crack. 
There was a robot behind the door, humanoid and faceless. “Hello,” it said. “My name is Benny. I’m a Eurasian robot, and I am much stronger and faster than you, and I don’t obey the three laws. I’m also much smarter than you. I am pleased to host you here.” 
“Hi, Benny,” he said. The human name tasted wrong on his tongue. “Nice to meet you.” He closed the door. 
His ex-wife left him two months after Ada was born. The divorce had been uncontested, though he’d dutifully posted a humiliating notice in the papers about it so that it would be completely legal. The court awarded him full custody and control of the marital assets, and then a tribunal tried her in absentia for treason and found her guilty, sentencing her to death. 
"No limo, but at least we get first call on the vans," Arlene observed, her voice not hiding the sarcasm. "Just once I'd like to work for somebody who had serious VIP transporta­tion." 
"David would walk before he'd get a limo." 
We were headed down the street, me digging out my keys, when I noticed the man standing in the rain. He was just behind our lead van, a three-year-old gray Ford, waiting for us. 
My first thought was he must be connected to Nicky Russo, David's wiseguy banker, here to bust my chops over the Teamster issue. Screw him. Just my luck he'd send some­body the very day Lou was not on hand. But then I realized I'd guessed wrong. The man was more Hispanic than Italian. He also was short, solidly built, late fifties maybe, with in­tense eyes and gray hair that circled his balding pate like the dirty snow around a volcano's rim. As he moved toward us, I thought I detected something military in his bearing, not so much the crispness of a soldier but rather the authoritative swagger of an officer. Well, maybe a retired officer. 
“No!” Lexy promptly replied. 
She put the handkerchief inside her blouse and stood facing the closed door, with her hands clenched. Now he knew! She heard him laugh quietly. 
“Perhaps you’re right,” he said. “It is better, perhaps, for us not to meet again. Even making every allowance for your hysterical, unbalanced mind, I find it difficult to excuse this latest manifestation which I have just this moment discovered. It was you, of course, who filled that bottle with water?” 
She did not answer. 
“Why you did it, I don’t know,” he went on, “and probably you don’t know yourself. It was the wanton mischief of an irresponsible child, but the consequences in this instance are serious—very serious. Mrs. Quelton will suffer for them. I doubt if she will recover. No, Miss Moran, you are too troublesome a guest. You had better go—at once!” 
“All right!” said Lexy, in a defiant but trembling voice. 
“At once!” he repeated. “I shall send your bag this afternoon.” 
“I don’t care!” said Lexy to herself. “I’ll come back!” 
Sorensen waves off his explanations. "You're right. I'm sorry. It was a childish gesture." 
"I understand. These aren't the optimum conditions for any of us." 
"I don't want this spook operation taking over my ship," he snaps back, but it was too weak to be offensive. 
Six months of snapping that had proven pointless had worn most of the real protest out of him. By this late in the game, Sorensen's crankiness is barely a shadow of its previous substance. "I'm a cranky old bastard, Mr. 
Marlowe. I've earned the right to be that way, frankly. It rankles me to have the FSA plant a civilian investigator on my vessel— a civilian with orders that supersede Paraclete 's primary mission. So, when I say that you are a pain in my ass, sir, you understand that I mean no personal offense, even if you do happen to be the worst crewman ever to wear the uniform." 
"Commander, I do believe you're trying to flatter me. Shameless, but effective." 
Becker returns bearing a tray with two glasses. Sorensen can only grin and shake his head in a way that makes it clear this last speech amounted to nothing more than lodging his official complaint of the situation once again for the ship's crypto-locked data core— as if he hadn't already done it dozens of times. 
“I’m Turkish.” 
“Whatever.” 
Marita smiled at Cemil and he smiled back nervously and pat- ted the baby on the head before hurrying out of the house, away from these crazy people. Okay, scratch him off the list of possible informants. 
Tweak started laughing. It was contagious, but Danny stubbed out his cigarette and muttered, “Gotta watch that guy.” 
“He’s fine,” Marita said. “He’s on a student visa, he won’t want to screw that up. Has a family back home to support.” 
“You got his whole life story, huh?” There was a kind of coiled violence in the way Danny spoke that sent a shiver down my spine. 
“Yeah, so?” She fixed eyes with him for a moment and then looked away. “I’m going to put the kid to bed.” She hauled herself up, picked up the baby and a bottle of beer and headed for the stairs. 
Tweak started talking about actions he had participated in and Danny bragged about setting cars on fire during a protest. Simon, 
not to be outdone, ranted about police brutality and I threw in a speech of my own about mass surveillance. I checked my phone every now and then. I ignored the missed calls and message noti- fications and only paid attention to the time. When I’d been there for nearly two hours, I asked where the bathroom was. I needed to download the video I’d shot before the memory ran out. 
“We made some educated guesses about human nature,” she answered with a small smile. “We’re quite good at that.” 
But what did they want with me in the first place? And why not just kill us? 
“I shall explain everything in good time,” said Dawna. “But you are quite correct; we do wish you to accompany us whole and unharmed for the moment. Your new friend Mr. Tresting is more expendable, so please, put your weapons on the floor.” 
Jesus Christ. She was reading my mind. 
And to make everything orders of magnitude worse, they’d grabbed Arthur so quickly and quietly I hadn’t heard a whisper of it. Some serious muscle must be lurking in the shadows—I’d fought alongside Tresting; he was no slouch. 
And now Pithica had him. 
I lowered the Smith & Wesson slowly and placed it on the cement floor, keeping my hands away from my body as I stood back up, wondering just how far Dawna Polk’s powers went. 
“Really, Ms. Russell?” said Dawna, a hint of humor in her voice. 
“It was worth a try,” I said aloud, and reached around to untuck the Glock and the TEC-9 from my belt and leave them on the ground, too. 
We walked through the portal and entered a room whose roof was a stone latticework that let the gray daylight just filter through. The space was vast, with carved and colored glyphs all around the walls, while the air was filled with clouds of incense from pots along the floor. It felt like a smoky pagan church. 
At the far end was a large stone platform, and in the dap­pled, hazy light I could see it was embossed along its sides with carved and painted classical scenes and glyphs, glisten­ing little red and green and blue pictures of faces and figures. 
My eyes finally started adjusting to the shadows, and I realized the platform had been fitted with a covering across the top, a jaguar skin over bundled straw, and a tiny form was lying on it, wearing a white shift. . . . 
Dear God. 
"Morgy, I've been so hoping you'd come," Sarah said, rising up and holding out her hands. Then she slid her feet around onto the rough stone floor and managed to steady herself. Her shift was wrinkled now, but she still was wearing the brown slippers and the braided leather waist-cinch. She appeared sleepy, though her eyes were sparkling and she seemed to have more strength than she'd had when I first saw her out in the square. I looked at her and weighed the chances she could walk. Possibly. But I'd carry her if I had to. 
Then, for no reason I could understand the mother of Tz'ac Tzotz stepped out of the group and handed me her baby, saying something in Kekchi Maya and reaching to touch my cheek. 
I was so startled I took the bundle that was Sarah's child. But then I thought, No! Alex Goddard will just kill him too. 
"She said he must not harm you," Marcelina whispered moving beside me. "You are the special one. She wants you to give her child back to Kukulkan." 
She still believes, I realized. They all do. 
Holding Tz'ac Tzotz, my eyes fixed on Alex Goddard, I’d entirely failed to notice a new presence on the pyramid a ghostlike waif in a white shift who now stood silently in the doorway of the stone room. Sarah! 
Marcelina had said she'd wanted to come for the cere­mony. She was being helped to stand by the two Maya women who'd fed me the atole . Somehow, she'd gotten them to bring her. 
"Morgy, are you there?" Sarah asked gazing up at the rainy skies, the downpour soaking her blond hair, her eyes unblinking. At that moment, I felt we'd joined become one person—me the dogged rational half who'd just gone over the line, her the spiritual part that needed to float, to fly free. "I wanted to be with—" 
“Thanks for taking care of Wheeze,” I said. “I don’t know how to repay you.” 
“You already did. Got my computer working.” 
“I can do something useful while I’m here,” Wheeze said. Jane studied him. His breath rattled in his chest, but he sat up a little straighter and tried to look competent. 
“He’s good at fixing things,” I said. 
“I have an old pedal sewing machine that isn’t working right. 
Can you repair it?” He nodded. “What else are you good at?” 
“Screen printing. Making soup.” 
“Reading incredibly long books about the history of debt,” I added. 
“Debt?” 
“It’s more interesting than it sounds,” Wheeze said. 
“Well, I got a lot of old books and no time to read them. If you record them for me, I can listen while I do the chores.” 
“Deal.” He held out a hand and she slapped her palm into it, 
sealing the arrangement with a shake that made him wince. “You guys? Thanks,” he added, looking at Nikko and Bree, then at me. 
We looked at each other for a minute. 
“Stay safe,” I said, feeling a falling sensation inside, as sudden and shocking as plunging deep into a cold pool. I suddenly real- ized how much I would miss messing around with Wheeze. Given that he was wanted by the FBI, just like my brother, and probably faced years and years of prison if they caught him, I wasn’t sure if we’d ever hang out together again. It had been such a relief to find him that I‘d forgotten how much trouble he still faced. 
“Protests are a waste of time. They just make people feel good. 
They don’t change anything.” 
“Such cynicism.” 
“Well, it’s true, isn’t it?” 
“It depends. In this case, it may show the authorities that peo- ple are paying attention. That they think these arrests are unjust.” 
“Or it might show that there aren’t many people willing to show up on a Sunday afternoon after a snowstorm for some kids who they say are terrorists. It’ll probably be a bust.” 
“Well, I want to show support for your brother, so I’ll be there.” 
“If you can get your car dug out.” 
“Novak’s picking me up, actually.” 
“Oh ho! Things are getting serious with Mexican Guy.” 
“Maybe you should start using his actual name. By the way, 
he’s just as upset with the NSA as you are. I have a feeling you two would get along. Will you need a ride?” 
“No thanks. I’ll probably hang out with Nikko later, so I’ll take my bike.” 
“Well, the offer is open if the weather gets worse,” Monica said, leaving off the usual lecture about how dangerous it was to ride a bike in the winter. She was getting resigned to it. 
Alone. Alone. Alone. 
There is no God to hear the faithless faith."  Waeltz mutters something inchoate, half a thought. He does not so much crumble as he implodes, seems to swell minutely, then deflate as though his bone structure has evaporated. What remains is a pile of flesh, 
spilling fluids, white smoke sifting up from empty holes where his eyes had been. 
On Ray's tactical display, the orange form that was Waeltz flickers and vanishes. Then Pelton. And Whitfield. 
The words roll on, flattening Dhamers in his perch at the canyon's mouth. Kluge and Hanfland crouched on the rim. More, and Ray seems to imagine a perfect scene of Predators hovering two klicks away in the desert, 
suddenly stricken, noses dipping, plummeting from the sky, their rotors scraping trenches in the sand before they lock, shatter, detonate the choppers in blossoms of flame. 
He knows a sudden and explosive sensation of pressure against his skin. Flame licks across his eyes. Acid seems to scour his nerve endings, buckling his knees. He goes down with his muscles locked in a paralysis like the grip of panic. The immense figure emerges from the pall of smoke, grinning darkly so that Ray can see his teeth, and behind that, the shadow of the other being, whose mouth is a gaping maw of darkness and mucous and razor teeth angled in vicious directions like shards of glass. It stops before him, considers him for a time that feels like eons, then presses a mighty hand— or filthy, slimed tentacle, he can't tell— against Ray's forehead. His head tilts back so that their eyes meet, and Ray waits for the end, for the flexing of obscene muscle that will split his skull and spill his brains. 
Checker pressed a hand against his forehead in apparent pain. “Why do I have the feeling you’re going to get your own way on this? No matter how much I object to it?” 
“Because I am.” I turned to Rio. “Have a spare cell I can burn?” 
He stepped past me into the narrow kitchen, opened a drawer to reveal a jumble of disposable cell phones still in their packaging, and pulled one out. 
“Come on! You can’t possibly think this is a good idea!” Checker called from over by his computers. 
Rio ignored him. “You think this is a viable plan?” he asked, handing me the phone. 
“It’s what we’ve got,” I said. 
“These are dangerous people.” 
“And since when do you care about that?” 
He raised his eyebrows. “I attach somewhat greater value to your well-being than to my own.” 
Right. He attached more value to pretty much anyone else’s well-being than he did to his own. We were all works of God, I thought. I wondered if he viewed us like a security guard with no appreciation for art might view the...  with safeguarding—bits of paper and wood and canvas mushed together with some oily and plasticky stuff that someone else told him were worth protecting at any cost. 
"Rebecca, who was it that sold the three hundred cakes of soap to Mr. Ladd in North Riverboro?" 
"Mr. WHO?" exclaimed Rebecca. 
"Mr. Ladd, in North Riverboro." 
"Is that his real name?" queried Rebecca in astonishment. "I didn't make a bad guess;" and she laughed softly to herself. 
"I asked you who sold the soap to Adam Ladd?" resumed Miss Jane. 
"Adam Ladd! then he's A. Ladd, too; what fun!" 
"Answer me, Rebecca." 
"Oh! excuse me, aunt Jane, I was so busy thinking. Emma Jane and I sold the soap to Mr. Ladd." 
"Did you tease him, or make him buy it?" 
"Now, aunt Jane, how could I make a big grown-up man buy anything if he didn't want to? He needed the soap dreadfully as a present for his aunt." 
Miss Jane still looked a little unconvinced, though she only said, "I hope your aunt Miranda won't mind, but you know how particular she is, Rebecca, and I really wish you wouldn't do anything out of the ordinary without asking her first, for your actions are very queer." 
"There can't be anything wrong this time," Rebecca answered confidently. "Emma Jane sold her cakes to her own relations and to uncle Jerry Cobb, and I went first to those new tenements near the lumber mill, and then to the Ladds'. Mr. Ladd bought all we had and made us promise to keep the secret until the premium came, and I've been going about ever since as if the banquet lamp was inside of me all lighted up and burning, for everybody to see." 
"I can remember mine well enough, and a particularly unpleasant one it was," said the stranger. 
"So was mine," sighed Rebecca. "What was your worst trouble?" 
"Lack of food and clothes principally." 
"Oh!" exclaimed Rebecca sympathetically,—"mine was no shoes and too many babies and not enough books. But you're all right and happy now, aren't you?" she asked doubtfully, for though he looked handsome, well-fed, and prosperous, any child could see that his eyes were tired and his mouth was sad when he was not speaking. 
"I'm doing pretty well, thank you," said the man, with a delightful smile. "Now tell me, how much soap ought I to buy to-day?" 
"How much has your aunt on hand now?" suggested the very modest and inexperienced agent; "and how much would she need?" 
"Oh, I don't know about that; soap keeps, doesn't it?" 
"I'm not certain," said Rebecca conscientiously, "but I'll look in the circular—it's sure to tell;" and she drew the document from her pocket. 
"What are you going to do with the magnificent profits you get from this business?" 
By the time we arrived back at the apartment, I could tell my body temperature was edging up into a fever. We squelched inside, and I went to dig out some dry bandages. Arthur, no matter how irritated he might be with my methods, started mother hen-ing me again and pulling out another bag of IV antibiotics. 
When the phone in my pocket rang loudly, however, the clean bandages hit the floor as I scrabbled at my jacket. Arthur was squeezing the IV bag in his hand so tightly it looked like it might burst. I finally got the phone out, almost dropping it in my haste to hit the button before it went to voicemail. “Hello?” 
“Cas Russell? Is that you?” 
“Yeah, Checker, it’s me.” I was grinning myself silly at Arthur. “Good to hear your voice.” 
He was slow in answering. “You said Dawna Polk got to you. Both of you.” 
“Yeah. It turned out that going into a known ambush was a spectacularly bad idea,” I said pointedly in Arthur’s direction. 
“Don’t take this the wrong way, but...how do I know you guys are still you?” 
Now several village men from the square were running, shouting, up the slippery steps. Their faces looked like they'd been painted at one time, but now the rain had washed most of it away. 
While I yelled down to Sarah, again begging her not to move, Marcelina was asking them something, and their an­swers were tumbling out. 
Finally I turned to look at her, the screaming Tz'ac Tzotz still in my arms. 
"No one knows where he is," she was saying as she looked down over the side. "He's gone into the forest." 
"Good." I pulled Tz'ac Tzotz to me and kissed him, trying to tell him to calm down. It wasn't working. 
"Marcelina, here, please hold him. I've got to get down to Sarah." 
She took him. Then I walked over to where his mother lay bleeding on the stones. The woman wasn't moving, the obsidian knife still protruding from her chest. She'd saved me, but now death had taken her. There was nothing anyone could do. 
I was trembling, but I turned and began easing myself over the side of the stone platform and onto the first tier of the pyramid. 
He sniffed like he had won. Then he turned and started shuffling back toward the building. “Come on, then.” 
He was so slow I had to resist the urge to pick him up and throw him over my shoulder, but finally his fumbling steps came to the back door of the ground-floor condo, and he negotiated his key ring with shaky hands. 
I followed him into a dim apartment only to be confronted with a hoarder’s paradise. Stacks of books and magazines climbed in threatening towers to the ceiling, and all manner of junk was crammed in at odd angles, from broken televisions to piles of clothing to at least two old bicycles. There were also mountains of bottled water, loose and in flats, and a row of five-gallon gasoline jugs behind a jumble of model rockets and bird cages. I was surprised the condo hadn’t broken apart at the seams. 
“It’s here somewhere,” said the old man. He started poking through the piles. 
I heaved a sigh and went to help, digging through clouds of old receipts and moving crusty paint cans to search for anything vaguely mathematical-looking, and trying not to breathe through my nose. This place was probably a health hazard—one that needed a card catalogue to find anything. 
“I don’t know. I think we can,” I said. 
“How? Bring the Feds in?” Arthur rubbed a palm against his chin as if he couldn’t believe he was entertaining the possibility the flash drive might contain viable information. “Could work. Feds are slick at taking down money laundering operations. You give ’em the evidence, they could bring ’em down.” 
“No, that has the same problem as stealing the money ourselves—single fail point,” I said. 
“Pithica eats criminal investigations for breakfast,” agreed Checker from the phone. “They could divert one without taking a breath. We saw that in Kingsley’s notes.” 
“It’s down to us,” I said. 
“I was afraid you were going to say that,” said Checker. 
“Chin up,” I told him. “We’re very smart.” 
“Well, yes, but—” 
“Here’s what I’m thinking instead,” I plowed on. “With this many revenue sources, they can’t have brainwashed so many people. They must be...siphoning, or running front businesses, or fake charities, or whatever else huge criminal organizations do.” I raised my eyebrows at Rio. “Right?” 
"I'm telling you." 
"I'm listening. Complete focus on my end." 
Ziggy rolls his eyes and flips subjects, some rogue neuron in his brain having misfired and convinced him without any evidence or historical proof to the contrary that Ray is actually going to do what he says. 
"Nina made some cookies for you." 
"Your wife likes me. She thinks I'm hot." 
"She thinks you need someone to take care of you so you don't starve." 
"As far as women are concerned, that's like the same difference, man." 
"You can pick them up when you've logged out for the night. I'll leave them sitting on my desk." 
The conversation over, Ziggy wanders back into his office and closes the door so he can maintain the illusion that he's about to be obeyed. Ray watches him go, contemplating the door for several seconds in silence. 
Ray winks at the rat. "Lunch, you say? Sure, let's go."   The first thing everyone learns about Paraclete is that there is no actual, locate-able, stroll through-able, 
smell-the-flower variety garden on the Garden Level. There are no hydroponic growth vats, no specialized lighting, no actual fauna which might be even vaguely confused with explosions of greenery and/or vegetable caliber edibles. 
"Inside the framework of this communication modality, we are achieving an adequate level of mutual symbol apprehension. We are speaking the same language. " 
At least one of them is confident. "Are you up for some data analysis?" 
"You're just being difficult now." 
A sly, rat smile. "If I am, you have instructed me to be so." 
And Ray thinks of all the code he's added to the drone network in the last few months. Buggy, slasher, 
inadequately tested code designed to augment the AI data curiosity without making the rats too attractive to folks who might be interested in watching the drones operate and drawing revelatory conclusions from their patterns. It's a fine line between annoyance and outrage. Maybe there's something to this thesis that AI code mirrors the personality of the programmer. 
But those are questions for another time. Ray has work to do now, so he shoves them aside. 
"Data accessed." 
"How many times did you run your PCR simulations to develop the mRNA profiles we identified?" 
She wished she had another scrying scroll in inventory so she could get a look inside the cottage before she beat its door in, but she was fresh out of scrolls and just about everything else. 
She kicked the door in and her fingers danced. She’d killed four of her adversaries before she even noticed that they weren’t fighting back. 
In fact, they were generic avatars, maybe even non-player characters. They moved like total noobs, milling around in the little cottage. Around them were heaps of shirts, thousands and thousands of them. A couple of the noobs were sitting in the back, incredibly, still crafting more shirts, ignoring the swordswoman who’d just butchered four of their companions. 
She took a careful look at all the avatars in the room. None of them were armed. Tentatively, she walked up to one of the players and cut his head off. The player next to him moved clumsily to one side and she followed him. 
“Are you a player or a bot?” she typed. 
The avatar did nothing. She killed it. 
Miss Moran certainly did not understand, but she gave her promise to keep silent, and, putting on her hat and coat, hurried out of the house. Mighty glad she was to get out, too! 
“But why make a mystery of it like this?” she thought. “Every one has to know, sooner or later, and it’s so—so ghastly, pretending that Caroline’s there! Oh, it doesn’t seem possible, Caroline running off like that, and I never even dreaming she was the least bit interested in any man! I don’t see how she could have seen any one or written to any one without my knowing it. It doesn’t seem possible!” 
She had reached the corner of Fifth Avenue, and was waiting for a halt in the traffic, when she became aware of a young man who was standing near her and staring at her. She glanced carelessly at him, and he took off his hat, but he got no acknowledgment of his salute. He was a stranger, and she meant him to remain a stranger. The bright-haired, sturdy little Lexy was a very pretty girl, and she was not unaccustomed to strange young men who stared. She knew how to handle them. 
If possible, Ray never talks to the same suit twice on a given mission, thereby (he supposes) fracturing the flow of data among the suits so that only the suits at the top know exactly what's going on. For all he knows, 
the suits he talks with each time are taken out behind the building and administered a Code of Silence as soon as they break their connection. 
As the remote servers rumble through their web of data transfer routines, Ray waits, subliminally crossing his fingers, hoping his perception of the whole communication schizophrenia is wrong and that he'll get the redhead again. Too rapidly, the featureless blue screen he's been looking at flickers and an image pops up. It's an office with governmental gray walls, bland, without pictures or plants or other identifying props. A desk plain and battered enough to be any desk in any office of any department of government in the universe. 
Behind the desk is a man, seated, smiling. 
Ray makes a verbal outburst that is distinctly impolite in content. Then he says, "Why am I not surprised?" 
A niggling feeling reminded me that getting an elderly mathematician kidnapped by a killer wasn’t my MO, either. 
“She brought this on herself,” I said aloud. Martinez had refused to share the proof and then stolen all of her colleague’s work to control this decision. She wasn’t innocent. 
Can’t believe you’re even considering this, said some vestige of conscience, in Arthur’s voice. I tried to ignore it and imagine what I would’ve been thinking two years ago, before I’d met him. Would I still have been having doubts? 
I needed that proof. 
“Find a way,” I growled. My fucking job was getting things back for people, and I was really fucking good at it. I could get this proof back, and I could use the Lancer, and I could double-cross him and bash his face in and make sure Martinez didn’t get killed but instead gave me what I needed, whatever it took. 
A strange euphoria flooded me, and I felt alive and reckless. I could do this. And depending how it played out, when I was done, the world might never be the same. I might be one of the four horsemen of the apocalypse...or I might be a harbinger of the second coming. 
"Either there or on New Holyoke. Commander Sorensen has been informed that you'll be disembarking as soon as Paraclete arrives in port, and I'm in the process of transmitting to you the probable specifications of a cargo container needed to ship a ring of the size and weight in question. This is proprietary information, Ray. 
The local EED organ was only told that the ship contained stolen Terran artifacts, but that's as specific as we chose to get given the sensitivity of this operation." 
"And since you figured you could always drop me out here anyway..." 
"I most certainly did not want them getting their hands on a Solomonic ring without having a reliable agent in place to guide them in its proper handling. So, EED has pretty much allowed the investigation on their end to stall, and even if I was in a position where I could push them without creating inter-agency strife, I wouldn't want to. This is not one of those situations where I would feel comfortable providing a full and detailed briefing to some desk ape half the universe away." 
The diamond tipped saw sounds exactly like a dental drill. He has to force himself to keep his eyes open, to actually watch what he's doing. His brain flops around inside his skull as though squirming away from his optical input. His stomach crawls away somewhere in the vicinity of his anus and begins to pout. Ray cuts through both of the rat's forepaws before he remembers he should be holding the tail. 
He doesn't breathe until the work is done, the saw is jammed back in its pocket and the rat, roughly the size of a burly tomcat, is snugged against his belly. For seven full minutes afterward, he does nothing but apologize.  He keeps his eyes averted from the four shiny and bodiless paws clamped to the shaft wall. 
The rat chirps merrily, poking its nose into ribs and gall bladders, sniffing at belly buttons and livers— performing god-knows-what sensory examinations of this new biological terrain. 
"Don't bite me," he says. 
It does, of course. Ray figures that makes them about even. 
But Lucy had started it, right? It wasn’t her fault. 
But who would believe her? 
She opened her eyes. Her vision swam through incipient tears. Her heart was thudding in her ears. 
› The enemy isn’t your fellow player. It’s not the players guarding the fabrica, it’s not the girls working there. The people who are working to destroy the game are the people who pay you and the people who pay the girls in the fabrica, who are the same people. You’re being paid by rival factory owners, you know that? THEY are the ones who care nothing for the game. My girls care about the game. You care about the game. Your common enemy is the people who want to destroy the game and who destroy the lives of these girls. 
“Whassamatter, you fat little cow? Is your game making you cwy?” She jerked as if slapped. The chav who was speaking to her hadn’t been in the Baang when she arrived, and he had mean, close-set eyes and a football jersey and though he wasn’t any older than she, he looked mean, and angry, and his smile was sadistic and crazy. 
"I'll wear it," thought Rebecca. "They're not here to ask, and maybe they wouldn't mind a bit; it's only gingham after all, and wouldn't be so grand if it wasn't new, and hadn't tape trimming on it, and wasn't pink." 
She unbraided her two pig-tails, combed out the waves of her hair and tied them back with a ribbon, changed her shoes, and then slipped on the pretty frock, managing to fasten all but the three middle buttons, which she reserved for Emma Jane. 
Then her eye fell on her cherished pink sunshade, the exact match, and the girls had never seen it. It wasn't quite appropriate for school, but she needn't take it into the room; she would wrap it in a piece of paper, just show it, and carry it coming home. She glanced in the parlor looking-glass downstairs and was electrified at the vision. It seemed almost as if beauty of apparel could go no further than that heavenly pink gingham dress! The sparkle of her eyes, glow of her cheeks, sheen of her falling hair, passed unnoticed in the all-conquering charm of the rose-colored garment. Goodness! it was twenty minutes to one and she would be late. She danced out the side door, pulled a pink rose from a bush at the gate, and covered the mile between the brick house and the seat of learning in an incredibly short time, meeting Emma Jane, also breathless and resplendent, at the entrance. 
I glared back at the crocodiles' unblinking reptile eyes and tried to get my mind around the fact Sarah could have stood right where I was standing, or been set adrift from here in a coma, to float downstream. Seeing that vision, I felt un­bidden tears trailing down my cheeks. And the questions I had kept piling up. Was this the location of Alex Goddard's "miracle" clinic? Why was Baalum such a high-security se­cret? What was the connection between this place and Sarah's ravaged mind and body? I wanted to know all of it, and by God I would. 
This was the farthest I'd ever been from "civilization," though I was trying not to let that fact sink in too deeply. The water was green and full of small aquatic creations, but I managed to find a reasonably un-mossy spot and—still keeping an eye on the leering crocodiles—splashed my face. It felt good, even if it was filthy. . . . 
Okay, I'd seen enough of the river. I raised up and stretched. Time to go. 
My hopes at war with my nerves, I turned my back on the scummy, fetid Rio Tigre and headed back up the jungle trail toward the plaza. 
“What? Oh, uh, yeah. Good. Cas, remember when I said that thing about personal worst nightmares and end times? I just—this is—” 
I wasn’t interested. “Set it up so the Lancer thinks I’m taking a meeting and thinks he can track me down, somewhere with no bystanders to get in the way. Text me the location.” 
“I—okay.” 
He sounded so dispirited. I sighed. “We’ll kick this case in the balls and get the professor back. You’ll see.” Arthur would see. 
“That’s not what I—okay. Okay. I’ll set it up.” 
I hung up. 
I dropped the phone on the passenger seat of the car I was jacking and leaned my head against the steering wheel, my hands in my lap. The bandage had come off my left one at some point. It didn’t look worse than the other, though; both hands were caked in blood and dirt. 
I should drive to one of my bolt holes and patch myself up. And sleep. Sleep until Checker texted me with a location, one where, hopefully, the Lancer’s crew would swoop in to trap me and take me to Sonya Halliday. 
We took the stairs up to the Bay Guardian 's offices two at a time. My heart was pounding. I got to the reception desk and told the bored girl behind it, "I'm here to see Barbara Stratford. My name is Mr Green." 
"I think you mean Mr Brown?" 
"Yeah," I said, and blushed. "Mr Brown." 
She did something at her computer, then said, "Have a seat. Barbara will be out in a minute. Can I get you...  in unison. Another reason to love Ange: we were addicted to the same drug. 
The receptionist -- a pretty latina woman only a few years older than us, dressed in Gap styles so old they were actually kind of hipster-retro -- nodded and stepped out and came back with a couple of cups bearing the newspaper's masthead. 
We sipped in silence, watching visitors and reporters come and go. Finally, Barbara came to get us. She was wearing practically the same thing as the night before. It suited her. She quirked an eyebrow at me when she saw that I'd brought a date. 
"Hello," I said. "Um, this is --" 
"Ms Brown," Ange said, extending a hand. Oh, yeah, right, our identities were supposed to be a secret. "I work with Mr Green." She elbowed me lightly. 
Why am I here? 
I thought about going back to the car, but when I tried to turn back to the gate, my feet felt mired in cement, and something in me clenched. My throat closed. I crouched for a moment, hands on my knees, taking small sips of air through my mouth. 
Jesus Christ. 
I stood back up and took a cautious step into the graveyard, and the feeling lightened. 
I stopped again. 
What the fuck. Something was messing with me. I didn’t like being messed with, and I sure as hell wasn’t going to listen to it. 
I sat down on the path. The asphalt was damp. 
The only person who’d been able to get my mind to... do things...this way was Dawna Polk. I shivered, the feel of her invading tendrils a visceral echo in my brain, even years later. But she’d been seamless, hadn’t she? Most of the time I hadn’t even been able to tell when I was doing what she wanted. To be perfectly honest with myself, I still didn’t fully know what she’d made me do and what decisions I’d made myself. I was pretty sure I’d never know. 
“Real gentlemen,” said Tresting. 
Steve folded his hands on the table. “You will tell us what you know about Pithica, and you will disappear,” he informed us, his calm, charismatic tone as ominous as a death knell. “Whether you do either of those things voluntarily or not is your decision, but they both will happen, one way or the other.” 
“Wow,” I said. “You and Pithica deserve each other.” I hadn’t moved yet, but the adrenaline was slamming into my brain, shutting away the revelations about Dawna Polk to deal with later and focusing on how to escape our current situation alive. The smartest thing to do might’ve been to accept their offer and play along, discover what we could, and then escape from the imprisonment they were calling protection. But I was a terrible liar—and besides, I didn’t feel good about our chances once we entered their custody. 
The next obvious solution was to take out both men and run. But the minute I did, we couldn’t stop running. We’d have to dodge this organization’s crosshairs for the rest of our lives. Could we take Finch and his boss hostage instead, use them to negotiate for getting ourselves off the target list? Unfortunately, I had the distinct feeling their employers had a broad definition of “acceptable losses,” even when it came to their own. 
Anda waited by the BFG10K while Lucy paid off the Fahrenheits and saw them on their way. “Now we take the cottage,” Lucy said. 
“Right,” Anda said. She set her character off for the doorway. Lucy brushed past her. 
“I’ll be glad when we’re done with this—that was bugfuck nutso.” She opened the door and her character disappeared in a fireball that erupted from directly overhead. A door-curse, a serious one, one that cooked her in her armor in seconds. 
“SHIT!” Lucy said in her headset. 
Anda giggled. “Teach you to go rushing into things,” she said. She used up a couple scrying scrolls making sure that there was nothing else in the cottage save for millions of shirts and thousands of unarmed noob avatars that she’d have to mow down like grass to finish out the mission. 
She descended upon them like a reaper, swinging her sword heedlessly, taking five or six out with each swing. When she’d been a noob in the game, she’d had to endure endless fighting practice, “grappling” with piles of leaves and other nonlethal targets, just to get enough experience points to have a chance of hitting anything. This was every bit as dull. 
"They were both away and I didn't ask," Rebecca responded anxiously. "Why? Do you think they'd have said no?" 
"Miss Mirandy always says no, doesn't she?" asked Emma Jane. 
"Ye—es; but this afternoon is very special—almost like a Sunday-school concert." 
"Yes," assented Emma Jane, "it is, of course; with your name on the board, and our pointing to your flag, and our elergant dialogue, and all that." 
The afternoon was one succession of solid triumphs for everybody concerned. There were no real failures at all, no tears, no parents ashamed of their offspring. Miss Dearborn heard many admiring remarks passed upon her ability, and wondered whether they belonged to her or partly, at least, to Rebecca. The child had no more to do than several others, but she was somehow in the foreground. It transpired afterwards at various village entertainments that Rebecca couldn't be kept in the background; it positively refused to hold her. Her worst enemy could not have called her pushing. She was ready and willing and never shy; but she sought for no chances of display and was, indeed, remarkably lacking in self-consciousness, as well as eager to bring others into whatever fun or entertainment there was. 
When I dialed the Belize number, however, the phone just rang and rang. 
Come on. Somebody please pick up. 
Then they did. Thank goodness. But when I asked for Steve—"So sorry, mon," came the proud Caribbean voice, "but Mr. Abrams check out Monday. Early in the morning." 
"Right, I know that. But he came back last night, didn't he?" 
"No, mon. He say he be coming back, to hold his room, but—" 
"He didn't come back?" I felt my palms go icy. Who was going to know where Sarah and I were? "What do you mean?" 
"He not coming back here, mon." The man paused and mumbled something to another clerk, then came back on. "Nobody seen him since. You want leave a message, that's okay. But I don't know when—" 
"No." I didn't know what to say. The implication was only gradually sinking in. "No message. Thanks anyway. I'll try back later." 
"Any time, mon. No problem." 
I hung up, trying to stay calm. Steve, where are you? 
Okay, I told myself, you don't actually know something's wrong. It could be anything. Still, it was very worrying. Steve, my one and only . . . 
"I know you'll be very good at it. You can explain things without making it seem like an explanation. The first lesson I ever learned on the Hill was, 'If you're explaining --'" 
"'-- you're losing,'" he said. "Yeah, I've heard that. Well, you're the old hand here, I'm just learning as I go. Trying not to make too many mistakes and to learn from the ones I do make." 
"Do you want some free advice, Damian?" 
He sat down in one of the chairs, which bulged and sloshed as it conformed itself to his back and butt. He patted the upholstered jelly beside him. "You may always assume that I would be immensely grateful for your advice, Trish," he said. 
She sat down and crossed her legs, letting her sensible shoe hang loose. "Right. DC is a busy place. In academic circles, in tech circles, you might get together to feel out your opponent, or to make someone's acquaintance, or to see an old friend. You might get together to enjoy the company of another human being. 
"We do that in DC, after working hours. Strictly evenings and weekends. When you schedule a meeting during office hours, it has to have a purpose. Even if it appears to have no purpose, it has a purpose. There's a protocol to meetings, a secret language, that's known to every Hill Rat and written nowhere. What time you have the meeting, who's there, who's invited, who knows it, how long you schedule, whether you cater: they all say little things about the purpose of the meeting. Even if you have no reason to call the meeting, one will be read into it. 
My God, what's she trying to give me? And why? 
"Listen," she went on, insistent. "Take those. Put two teaspoons of each in water you've boiled and drink it. Every day for a week. They'll make you strong. Then you'll be—" 
"Hey, I'm going to be just fine, really." I set them aside and studied her, still a ghostlike figure in the semi dark. There was a wildness in her eyes that was very disturbing. 
At that moment, Alex Goddard appeared in the doorway. He clicked on the light, looking puzzled. 
"Couldn't find the switch?" Then he glanced around. "Tara, did you get lost? I thought you were doing your medi­tation. It's Sunday. Afterwards, though, you can weed the north herb boxes if you want." 
She nodded silently, then grabbed the baggie and glided out, her brown eyes filled with both reverence and what seemed like fear. 
"Who was that?" I asked, staring after her, feeling unset­tled by the whole experience. "She seemed pretty intense." 
"Tara's been pretty intense for some time, perhaps for much of her life," he declared with a note of sadness as he closed the door behind her. "I've not been able to do anything for her, but I've let her stay on here since she has nowhere else to go. She loves the gardens, so I've let her work out there. It seems to improve her self-esteem, a kind of benign therapy, her own natural path toward centering." 
I dug another quarter out of my pocket, then changed my mind. What was the chance that Barbara's phone wasn't tapped? There was no way I was going to be able to call her now, not directly. I needed some intermediary to get in touch with her and get her to meet me somewhere south. So much for plans. 
What I really, really needed was the Xnet. 
How the hell was I going to get online? My phone's wifinder was blinking like crazy -- there was wireless all around me, but I didn't have an Xbox and a TV and a ParanoidXbox DVD to boot from. WiFi, WiFi everywhere... 
That's when I spotted them. Two kids, about my age, moving among the crowd at the top of the stairs down into the BART. 
What caught my eye was the way they were moving, kind of clumsy, nudging up against the commuters and the tourists. Each had a hand in his pocket, and whenever they met one another's eye, they snickered. They couldn't have been more obvious jammers, but the crowd was oblivious to them. Being down in that neighborhood, you expect to be dodging homeless people and crazies, so you don't make eye contact, don't look around at all if you can help it. 
surrounded by mountains of junk mail. That happened to old people sometimes. I remembered a Buzzfeed story about a man who died in a house so full of trash they could hardly get the door open to get his smelly body out. 
The mail lying on the floor wasn’t the only thing on the porch. 
There were lots of empty flower pots and rusty garden tools and cardboard boxes and a broken chair and two lamps that didn’t have lampshades - “Can I help you?” 
She said it in that snooty voice that really means “go away.” 
She didn’t look much like her pictures, the ones of her with white hair piled up in a complicated braided hairdo that looked a little like those wigs lawyers in England stick on top of their real hair. 
Her pinned-up hair was all undone on one side and halfway falling down on the other. Also, she looked mad. Like angry-mad combined with crazy-mad. 
“My brother needs a lawyer.” 
“He’s in luck. Law schools have been pumping them out like crazy. He won’t have any trouble finding one. Just lift a rock.” Her voice didn’t sound as old and frail as she looked. It was sharp and snobby. 
pauses at intersections to listen, dowsing for sounds. Finally, several blocks in and near what Ray assumes to be the center of the bay, they enter a sort of clearing. It's a hastily erected emptiness, apparently. Several crates have been maneuvered off to the side by a Bobcat forklift, cutting off the careful grid pattern with pell-mell obstructions. There was an attempt to stack some of the crates, but without the electromagnetic matrix to steady them, several have shifted, tumbled into passageways or tipped on their sides, suspended above the floor when they wedged between other containers. Given the roughly circular shape of the space and the arcanely fallen blocks, Ray thinks at once about Stonehenge- about stepping into the center of a bizarre druidic rite of sacrifice. 
The lights are better here. Becker has introduced a cordon of high powered halogen frames whose power cords snake off into the distance. Drawn from shadow to white glare, Ray shields his eyes with his hand. He hesitates and peers into the circle until he locates Becker. 
“Something’s affecting me?” I cried incredulously. “Well, yes, genius, things affect me! You think you’re such an expert on emotion all of a sudden? You? Did you ever think that maybe I’m reacting like a normal human person?” 
“Cas—” Rio tried to cut in, but I wasn’t having any of it. 
“The poor woman has done nothing but care about her little sister, and she’s being dragged into this whole violent mess with drug dealers and cops, and now we find out someone very dangerous called her and lied to her, and you want to dump it all on her? Maybe while we’re doing that, the people we should have been investigating will take their sweet time to come kill her and Courtney!” 
“Cas, sit down—” 
“No, fuck you, Rio!” I spat. I wasn’t sure when I had stood, but I was looming over him, so angry I felt like my skin was splitting open, my insides seizing. “I don’t owe you a goddamn thing! What, does it ruin your sick little masturbatory fantasies that I might care what happens to someone else? Too bad! Because unlike some fucked-up people, I have emotions, and morals, and a sense of right and wrong that doesn’t come from some demented version of the Bible!” Red was fuzzing around the corners of my vision. I wanted to hit him, to hit him so hard that he wouldn’t get back up. The math pricked my senses all over, whispering of all the ways I could strike. Maim. Kill. “And you? You dare preach to me about how I should or shouldn’t act, well, fuck you, because I’m not a fucking psychopath!” 
Alex Goddard glanced around, as though reluctant to re­spond in the presence of all the Maya. 
"You saw those 'security guards' down there just now. They're nothing but boys with guns, 'recruits' kidnapped by the government on market day and pressed into the Army. They're all around here. The powers that be in Guatemala City are very threatened by what I'm achieving, so they've got these Army kids hanging around, keeping an eye on me. They also hate the fact I can provide health services better than they can. But to answer your question, most of the AID money gets soaked up by the bureaucracy in Guatemala City, so the people up here have learned to rely on me. The Army, however, despises me and everything I'm doing." 
What a load of BS. You just admitted you had an inside track with Colonel Alvino Ramos. Anybody can see Children of Light or Ninos del Mundo, or whatever the hell other aliases you use, is thick as thieves with the Guatemalan Armed Forces. Don't insult my intelligence. It just makes me furious. 
"James. My name's Morgan James." 
"Ms. James." Another of those smiles. "Frankly, I don't know what to tell you, though." He shrugged, exuding helplessness. "It's hard to keep track of every American tourist who comes and goes through this country. Some of the hippie types end up in a mountain village somewhere, gone native. In this instance, as I recall, we got her out on a medevac." 
"Her landing card gave her destination as someplace called 'Ninos del Mundo,' up to the Peten. That ring a bell? Any idea how I could find it?" 
"Niiios del Mundo?" He glanced up quickly. "That's a new one on me." He'd been fiddling with a stack of papers on his desk, giving me only half his attention, but he abruptly stopped. "You try the phone book?" 
"Like I said, it's in the Peten." I was getting the definite sense he wanted to get rid of me as soon as possible. The whole scene was feeling tense and off. "My understanding is that's mostly rain forest. Do they even have phones up there?" 
"Not many," he said, his tone starting to definitely acquire an "I have better things to do" edge. 
Then the blond-haired Tz'ac Tzotz started to sniffle, so I kissed him gently, turned, and took the woman's hand again. There was nothing else I could do. 
Tz'ac Tzotz was Sarah incarnate. This was no hallucina­tion. He had her special blue eyes and her steep cheeks, her high brow. I was holding her child. 
"They are sent from Kukulkan," Marcelina was saying, "the white god of the plumed serpent. Then there's the cere­mony on the pyramid and they go back." 
The woman was staring at me, seemingly awestruck. Then she pointed at Tz'ac Tzotz and at me, saying something to Marcelina. Finally the woman bowed her head to me with great reverence. 
"She says he looks so much like you," Marcelina ex­plained. "You are surely the special one. The new bride." 
I was still speechless, but then I noticed the baby had a little silver jaguar amulet tied around his wrist with a silken string, and on the back—as on Kevin's and Rachel's—were rows of lines and dots. 
It finally dawned on me. They were digits, written in the archaic Maya script. What could they be, maybe his birth­day? No, I realized, that was far too simplistic. This was the original bar code; it was his Baalum "serial number." 
A reporter held up a hand and said, "General Sutherland, surely you're not saying that these children were terrorist sympathizers for attending a party in a park?" 
"Of course not. But when young people are brought under the influence of our country's enemies, it's easy for them to end up over their heads. Terrorists would love to recruit a fifth column to fight the war on the home front for them. If these were my children, I'd be gravely concerned." 
Another reporter chimed in. "Surely this is just an open air concert, General? They were hardly drilling with rifles." 
The General produced a stack of photos and began to hold them up. "These are pictures that officers took with infra-red cameras before moving in." He held them next to his face and paged through them one at a time. They showed people dancing really rough, some people getting crushed or stepped on. Then they moved into sex stuff by the trees, a girl with three guys, two guys necking together. "There were children as young as ten years old at this event. A deadly cocktail of drugs, propaganda and music resulted in dozens of injuries. It's a wonder there weren't any deaths." 
She didn't smile. "We don't use assassination," she said. "That's what I'm trying to convey to you, Leon." 
He crumbled. He'd blown it somehow, shown himself to be the boor he'd always feared he was. 
"I'm sorry," he said. "I guess -- look, it's all kind of hard to take in. The sums are staggering." 
"They're meaningless," she said. "That's the point. The sums are just a convenient way of directing power. Power is what matters." 
"I don't mean to offend you," he said carefully, "but that's a scary sounding thing to say." 
"Now you're getting it," she said, and took his arm again. "Drinks?" 
The limes for the daiquiris came from the trees around them on the rooftop conservatory. The trees were healthy working beasts, and the barman expertly inspected several limes before deftly twisting off a basket's worth and retreating to his workbench to juice them over his blender. 
"You have to be a member to drink here," Ria said, as they sat on the roof, watching the jetpacks scud past. 
"I'm not surprised," he said. "It must be expensive." 
Ray snorts, wrinkling his nose the way he would if confronted with a foul odor. This entire situation has a lousy and pungent stink all over it, like rotting meat. "Jack Holcomb is a horse's ass. And he's insane. 
Certifiably so, if you'll pardon my candor. " 
"The way he describes it, he saved your career." 
"Just so he could destroy it now, sure. Holcomb never lets a man wreck himself until he's wrung the last bit of use out of him that he can. This just isn't right, Rich. No, it's more than that— it's impossible. Isn't it?" 
Becker doesn't say anything, probably because he doesn't know what to say. He doesn't know enough to contribute or how to poke Ray effectively until he gives up his secrets like a mausoleum caught in a temblor. 
Ray sighs, deep and melancholy, then offers, "Are you a fan of coincidence, Becker? Of synchronicity?" 
The Chief only shakes his head, without comment. 
"Neither am I. The problem is, I'm not sure what that means in this case." Which is exactly what Holcomb would have recognized when Becker contacted the EED about what was going on below decks. The devil was in the details, so it was said, and Jack Holcomb was a man who kept his eye out for strange synchronicities. 
She moved forward again, quietly and deliberately. Her eyes were more accustomed to the darkness now, and she made her way through the trees, looking always ahead, never once behind her. 
“The wood must end somewhere,” she said. “The morning will have to come some time. All I have to do is to go on.” 
Patter, patter, patter, like little feet running behind her. 
“Only the leaves on the trees,” said Lexy. “All I have to do is to go on.” 
And she went on. Sometimes a wild desire to run swept over her, but she would not hasten her steps, and she would not look behind. The primeval terror of the forest pressed upon her, but she cast it away. Alone, lost, in darkness and solitude, she kept her hold upon the one thing that mattered—the honor and dignity of her own soul. 
“I’m not afraid,” she said. 
And then she saw a light. At first she thought it was the moon, but it hung too low, and it was too brilliant. Even then she would not run. She went on steadily toward it. In a few minutes she stepped out of the woodland upon a road—a hard, asphalt road with lights along it. It was quite empty, it was unfamiliar to her, but she would have gone down on her knees and kissed the dust of it. It was a road, and all roads lead home. 
“Door-to-door salesman?” I muttered. 
“Don’t think it’s a coincidence he waited till the cops left,” Tresting muttered back. 
The suit reached the porch and pressed the doorbell. As Dr. Kingsley pulled the door open, he reached into his suit jacket, and I already had a gun out and aimed before we saw he was only flashing a badge and ID at her. Leena Kingsley spotted us over his shoulder at the same time. 
“What’s going on?” she asked, her eyes going back and forth between Tresting’s face and my gun. 
The suit turned, a lanky white guy with a scraggly beard, and saw the barrel of my newly acquired Smith & Wesson in his face. He stumbled back a step, immediately raising his hands in the air. “Miss, please put down the weapon.” 
I’d thought he was familiar when he first turned, but now I definitely recognized him: Mr. Nasally-Voiced, one of the fine examples of humanity who’d been sacking Courtney’s place. Oh, hell. 
Tresting grabbed the leather badge holder out of the guy’s hand and scrutinized it. “FBI?” 
"But he says I need to stay, Morgy." She drew back. "It's best. He's helping me." 
As I watched the two privates carry her away, down the cobblestone pathway, AK-47's swung over their shoulders, I felt my helplessness become complete. The Army here was under his control, just like everything else. 
How was I going to tell Lou about this, that Sarah had been brainwashed? Whatever Alex Goddard had done to her had turned her into some kind of "Moonie," ready to de­nounce her own father. So now did I have two battles to wage: one with Alex Goddard and one with her? 
Then he walked over to me. 
"I'm not going to ask how you got here, though I assume it wasn't easy." He smiled, like a kindly priest, and put his hand on my shoulder. "But however you did it, I'm glad you decided to come. It's important for you to be here. She needs you now." 
" C ut the crap." I pulled away, still in shock from seeing Sarah so addled. I wanted more than anything else in the world just to slug him. "Why did you bring her here? Think about your answer. Kidnapping is a serious crime in the States." 
Not just feel-good protests and Facebook groups. Something real.” 
People in the circle nodded. Danny took a bottle out of Tweak’s hand. “Improvised incendiary device, right here, man.” 
“Hey, let me finish it first,” Tweak said, snatching it back. 
“All you’d need is some gasoline and rags,” Simon agreed. 
“Take five minutes. Or fertilizer. Oklahoma City? One truck, a load of fertilizer, and that building was destroyed, man. They say you could hear the blast fifty miles away.” 
“Same shit took out a building at the University of Wisconsin back when students knew what resistance really looks like,” 
Danny said. “Not so easy to get the right kind of fertilizer these days, though.” 
“Hey, Cemfl,” Simon said. “You know how to make bombs?” 
“Excuse me?” 
“You’re studying chemistry. I’ll bet you know how to make stuff explode.” Simon demonstrated with his hands flying out. 
“Boom.” 
Cemfl’s eyes widened. “Why are you saying this nonsense?” 
“You’re the one who wanted to overthrow what’s-his-name, 
“And this Pithica thing, it’s...bad?” hazarded Dawna anxiously. 
“Considering people seem pretty willing to kill her over it, yeah.” 
She started tearing up again. 
Oh geez. “Look, Dawna, I’m going to get her out of this.” 
She tried to nod, but she was trembling with the effort of not breaking down. She brought her fine-boned hands up to cover her face, breathing raggedly. 
I’m not great with people, but I tried. I reached out and put a hand on her thin shoulder. The motion felt very contrived. “Hey, don’t worry. We’re going to find out what this Pithica thing is, and why people think Courtney is involved in it, and then we’re going to shut them down.” 
She managed to nod, face still in her hands. 
“Here,...  got Dawna calmed down;...  sips, dabbing at her ruined makeup with a napkin. “I’m sorry, Ms. Russell,” she whispered, her voice shaking only slightly. “It’s so overwhelming.” 
“I understand.” I didn’t, but whatever. 
“I, ah, I have to get back to work,” said Dawna softly. 
I wondered where she worked that she couldn’t take time off right now. Well, maybe she needed the distraction. It wasn’t like I was unfamiliar with that myself. 
Captain Grey seemed to find some difficulty in lighting his cigarette; but when he had done so, and had drawn in a deep breath, he turned back toward Lexy with a smile that startled her. She had never imagined he could look like...  lighting his dark face with a sort of savage mirth. 
“When it’s over,” he said, “I’ll be very pleased to help you to hang him, if you can; or I’ll wring his neck myself.” 
The other two stared at him in silence for a moment. 
“You think he’s—” Houseman began. 
“I don’t know whether he has actually murdered her or not,” said Captain Grey, “but he has destroyed her—utterly wasted and ruined her life. He taught her to take that damned drug; and when Miss Moran broke the bottle—” 
“Oh! Did he tell you?” 
“He did. He says you’ve killed her. There was some rare drug in it that he can’t get for a fortnight or so, and she can’t live without it.” 
“Captain Grey!” she cried, white to the lips. “I didn’t—” 
“I know,” he said gently. “You meant to help, and I’m glad you did it. She’s better dead. This afternoon, for a little while, she was—herself. She talked to me. She was very weak, but she was herself. She asked me to help her not to take it again. She thought she was getting better. Then that”—he paused—“that damned brute brought in a lawyer, so that she could make her will. She couldn’t believe it. She looked up at me. ‘Oh, I’m not going to die , am I?’ she said. Before I could answer her, he told her she must be prepared. Then I—” 
I didn’t want to meet her. I just wanted her to make a cool film really fast so that all of her fans would descend upon the authorities like a plague of locusts and they would have to release my brother due to a public outcry. I knew it wouldn’t happen like that, but Nikko would be super-excited when I told him the famous filmmaker he admired so much was coming. 
Things were falling into place. 
I...  hotel to pick up the pro- totype spy camera-in-a-shirt, then met with Nikko in a cafe that was totally empty on a slow Monday night, as I’d expected. He took the shirt that Jason had loaned us into the bathroom and tried filming with the tiny camera hidden in the top button. The memory card was a flexible strip sewn into the cloth behind the buttons and would last for hours. Jason had rattled off technical specs that I didn’t understand, but it was cutting-edge and unde- tectable. 
We downloaded the video and Nikko tried again, sitting across from me as I pretended to be an FBI agent. Luckily the two people working at the counter were occupied, one rocking to music on earbuds while scraping crud off the grill, the other one playing a game on her phone. Nikko was hard to please. He made me put the shirt on and film him to see how he looked, practicing his lines. “If this is going to be useful to Sarah, it has to be right.” I noticed that he was already on a first-name basis with her. 
"I think I know already," answered Rebecca, with a bright glance. "I'm sure you must be Mr. Aladdin in the Arabian Nights. Oh, please, can I run down and tell Emma Jane? She must be so tired waiting, and she will be so glad!" 
At the man's nod of assent Rebecca sped down the lane, crying irrepressibly as she neared the wagon, "Oh, Emma Jane! Emma Jane! we are sold out!" 
Mr. Aladdin followed smilingly to corroborate this astonishing, unbelievable statement; lifted all their boxes from the back of the wagon, and taking the circular, promised to write to the Excelsior Company that night concerning the premium. 
"If you could contrive to keep a secret,—you two little girls,—it would be rather a nice surprise to have the lamp arrive at the Simpsons' on Thanksgiving Day, wouldn't it?" he asked, as he tucked the old lap robe cosily over their feet. 
They gladly assented, and broke into a chorus of excited thanks during which tears of joy stood in Rebecca's eyes. 
"Oh, don't mention it!" laughed Mr. Aladdin, lifting his hat. "I was a sort of commercial traveler myself once,—years ago,—and I like to see the thing well done. Good-by Miss Rebecca Rowena! Just let me know whenever you have anything to sell, for I'm certain beforehand I shall want it." 
charisma at twenty paces.” 
Nikko had a point. He was Simon Meyer’s match in the charm and confidence department, and he had a ton of friends. If it was me in that duel, Simon would win hands down, but in a Nikko versus Simon fight, Nikko at least had an even chance of com- ing out ahead. Then again, Simon had the advantage of having no morals. 
“He’s unscrupulous. He attacks women and is used to getting away with it. If you got him in a corner, he could hurt you.” 
“So long as he doesn’t figure out what’s going on, I should be fine. How do we get things on the record once the FBI gets involved? They’ll want me to wear a wire or whatever they actually use these days, but I doubt they’ll let me record the conversations we have, and what they say to me will be important, right?” 
“Critical. We’ll have to record it all. I know somebody who can get us equipment.” 
“Spy equipment?” 
“Sort of. Let me work on the tech stuff and figure out the legal questions. You think about whether you really want to do this. I have to get going so Monica won’t get home before me. I’ll see you tomorrow at that demonstration, right?” 
She's shaking, hugging her shoulders as if to keep from sobbing. "I should go." 
"What did he mean about the children?" 
But she shakes her head. "Thank you for breakfast, Ray. I had a good time." 
"Emma-" 
Does he hit you ? This is what he means to ask, what he should be asking, but even the bare thought of it makes him feel violent. But in the space between words, she slips close to him. Her small hands pull his face to hers and she kisses his lips, cool and dry and hungry. 
Without another word, she's gone. 
The rest of his day is spent the way most of days pass on Paraclete. Ziggy rides him for duty failures that may or may not be legitimate or even vaguely associated with his own personal fault, then tells him Nina has packed along some lasagna from last night's dinner that he can have as long as he promises to remember to get the dish back to her. He makes two retrievals of malfunctioning drones. He performs some perfunctory upgrades to the drone system control frame. Around this, he codes new search parameters into the drones' surveillance routines, uploads a dozen petaflops of gathered surveillance data for pattern searches and anomalous chemical traces from the rat network's latest security sweep, trying to skew all his available resources in a clever and anonymous enough way that the other systems vets won't notice that he's been tinkering with the rats, and on the chance that they do notice, won't suspect it's anything but a buggy command sequence and definitely won't trace it back to him. 
Ray hardly hears them. He's too busy realizing that they finally have light. Not much, granted, not enough to filter very effectively up the ladder shaft, but enough that he can see. They're in a rounded alcove against the blast wall, looking out on a corridor almost exactly like the one they left up on Omicron. It's a straight chute in either direction, with the occasional intersection splitting off in the distance. Not so many as above, because most of this area is a warren of offices, multiply redundant computer systems and monitoring laboratories. 
The lighting is still dim here. More than half of the bulbs have blown, and those that haven't blown are sputtering. 
From what seems to be kilometers away, there is screaming. High pitched, ringing with terror, choking to silence. 
"Where is it coming from?" Kilgore growls. 
Ray strains to listen, but there are bulkheads and strange echoes, any number of distorting baffles between them. He steps out into the corridor, where there are bodies. Some are puddles of flesh, things he's seen before. Others are shattered wrecks, as though they've been smashed by hammers the size of tree trunks. The flesh is mangled, battered, stretched by bones which have poked through the skin. The walls are streaked with blood, angry red flowers from impact points where corpses flopped like tossed dolls and languid, wavy arcs from crewmen who slid lazily from wall to deck. Ray counts a dozen before he stops. 
"Let's get to it," she said. "I don't want to be rude, but the good part isn't the food. I get all the food I need. I'm here for something else. The good part, Leon." 
He drew in a deep breath. "The good part," he said. "OK, let's get to it. I want to meet your --" What? Employer? Patron? Owner? He waved his hand. 
"You can call him Viktor," she said. "That's the name of the parent company, anyway. Of course you do. We have an entire corporate intelligence arm that knew you'd want to meet with Viktor before you did." Leon had always assumed that his workspaces and communications were monitored by his employer, but now it occurred to him that any system designed from the ground up to subject its users to scrutiny without their knowledge would be a bonanza for anyone else who wanted to sniff them, since they could use the system's own capabilities to hide their snooping from the victims. 
"That's impressive," he said. "Do you monitor everyone who might want to pitch something to Viktor, or --" He let the thought hang out there. 
"Reply if you get this, if you're on the run and alone. Or reply if you're in custody, being run by our friends on Gitmo, looking for a way to make the pain stop. If they've got you, you'll do what they tell you. I know that. I'll take that risk. 
"For you, M1k3y." 
"Wooooah," Liam breathed. "Duuuuude." I wanted to smack him. I turned to say something awful and cutting to him, but he was staring at me with eyes as big as saucers, looking like he wanted to drop to his knees and worship me. 
"Can I just say," Nate said, "can I just say that it is the biggest honor of my entire life to help you? Can I just say that?" 
I was blushing now. There was nothing for it. These two were totally star-struck, even though I wasn't any kind of star, not in my own mind at least. 
"Can you guys --" I swallowed. "Can I have some privacy here?" 
They slunk out of the room like bad puppies and I felt like a tool. I typed fast. 
"I got away, Zeb. And I'm on the run. I need all the help I can get. I want to end this now." I remembered to take Masha's phone out of my pocket and tickle it to keep it from going to sleep. 
"Do I look like I'm kidding?" 
"There's no way I would voluntarily go without you, Ange. I could never have asked you to come, but I'm ecstatic that you offered." 
She smiled and tossed me my keyboard. 
"Email this Masha creature. Let's see what this chick can do for us." 
I emailed her, encrypting the message, waiting for a reply. Ange nuzzled me a little and I kissed her and we necked. Something about the danger and the pact to go together -- it made me forget the awkwardness of having sex, made me freaking horny as hell. 
We were half naked again when Masha's email arrived. 
> Two of you? Jesus, like it won't be hard enough already. 
> I don't get to leave except to do field intelligence after a big Xnet hit. You get me? The handlers watch my every move, but I go off the leash when something big happens with Xnetters. I get sent into the field then. 
> You do something big. I get sent to it. I get us both out. All three of us, if you insist. 
> Make it fast, though. I can't send you a lot of email, understand? They watch me. They're closing in on you. You don't have a lot of time. Weeks? Maybe just days. 
Even closer than that. 
As we crested a hill and saw Jane’s farm below us, Bree pulled over so we could roll down the windows, smell the fresh spring air, 
and listen to the country sounds of birds and chirping bugs and wind rustling across the fields. “It’s so pretty out here,” she mur- mured. “I’m glad we came, even if I’m behind on all of my classes. 
Especially computer science. I’m so totally lost in that course.” 
“Zen can help with your homework,” Nikko said. “If you trade some nuts or pickled vegetables.” 
“No picked vegetables. I’ll help for free,” I said. “Wheeze loves it out here. He says it feels like home.” Considering he’d been moving from place to place since he was nineteen, riding the rails, 
staying with friends, or squatting in foreclosed houses, I knew it wasn’t just an empty phrase. 
“You like him, don’t you?” Nikko said, glancing at me in the backseat. Apparently the answer showed in my face because he grinned and gave me a gentle bop on the side of the head. “She likes him a lot,” he told Bree. 
I felt Arthur’s hand on my elbow in the bar again, heard the tension in his voice as he asked for help. 
That was before he went to the authorities. He doesn’t want you in on this anymore. 
What if I stepped off the case and Halliday died? 
What if I stepped off the case and the DHS found Halliday and then buried her and Arthur and Checker and Pilar so deep no one ever saw them again? 
I wiped off the sweat dampening my forehead with another Five Spirit Valley Karate T-shirt. 
But what could I do anyway? Unless Checker came up with another approach, I’d run out of leads to chase down. 
Everything had been taken out of my hands. I had no responsibility here. Face it, you’re only clinging to this job because you want something to cling to. 
It was probably true. 
That was it, then. I was done. 
Fuck that noise, said something deep in the back of my brain. You’re not done. Arthur asked for your help—stop whining and help. 
I winced. 
I’d go back to Checker’s. Whatever he was working on to track the explosives expert or the Lancer, I could probably be valuable. I could even grit my teeth and tolerate it if Pilar took the intel to the NSA afterward—the important part was that someone would find Halliday. Or maybe we’d discover enough for me to go out after her again myself, once I’d regained a little energy. That would be a far more preferable course of events. 
“Golly! I didn’t realize it was so late!” she reflected. “Queer time for any one to ring up!” 
She frowned again. Her special problem solved, she began to take more interest in other affairs; and the more she thought of the telephone incident, the more it amazed her. Caroline Enderby wasn’t like other girls. The mere fact of a man’s telephoning to her at all was strange and indeed unprecedented. 
“And he was badly upset, too,” thought Lexy. “He asked if she left a message for him. Think of Caroline Enderby leaving a message for a man!” 
She began to feel impatient for Caroline’s return. 
“I’ll tell her when we’re alone,” she thought; “and she’ll have to explain—a little, anyhow.” 
Lexy wanted an explanation very much, because she was fond of Caroline, and very sorry for her. 
Mrs....  conservative type, with the most rigid ideas about the bringing up of a young girl, and her husband—Lexy had often wondered what Mr. Enderby had been before his marriage, for now he was nothing but a grave and dignified echo of his wife. Between them, they had educated Caroline in a disastrous fashion. She had never even been to school. She had had governesses at home, and when a male teacher came in, for music or painting lessons, Mrs. Enderby had always sat in the room with her child. Caroline never went out of the house alone. She was utterly cut off from the normal life of other girls. She was a gentle, lovely creature—a little unreal, Lexy had thought her, at first; and she, at first, had been afraid of Lexy. 
Fear clenched at me. I started digging through the mess in the flat for a scrap of paper, tossing bottles and food wrappers and dirty clothes to the side while I repeated the word in my head over and over, afraid it would fade away again before I snatched the chance to write it down. 
The sentences floated in front of my vision: mad, mocking, absurd. They meant nothing. 
Stupid. I crumpled the envelope in my hand. 
Then, for some reason, I smoothed it back out and put it in a drawer. Halberd did have something to do with Pithica, after all; Anton’s memo had shown that much. Foolish to think it was anything more than that, and I wouldn’t be able to look into it anyway after what Dawna had done, but still...it had to mean something. 
For some reason, I shivered. 
I needed a drink. Yes. Large amounts of alcohol sounded perfect right now. Something in me needed to get royally drunk and pass out for about three days. Good plan. 
I grabbed my keys and headed for the door. I yanked it open to reveal Arthur, his hand raised to knock. 
She laughed. “Sysadmins don’t take holidays.” 
“This one will,” he said. “Promise.” 
“Oh that he is,” she said. She hung up, and he piloted the car into the data-center lot, badging in and peeling up a bleary eyelid to let the retinal scanner get a good look at his sleep-depped eyeball. 
He stopped at the machine to get himself a guarana/medafonil power-bar and a cup of...  clean-room sippy-cup. He wolfed down the bar...  inner door read his hand-geometry and size him up for a moment. It sighed open and gusted the airlock’s load of positively pressurized air over him as he passed finally to the inner sanctum. 
It was bedlam. The cages were designed to let two or three sysadmins maneuver around them at a time. Every other inch of cubic space was given over to humming racks of servers and routers and drives. Jammed among them were no fewer than twenty other sysadmins. It was a regular convention of black tee-shirts with inexplicable slogans, bellies overlapping belts with phones and multitools. 
"Back again?" 
She had her school bag in her hands, zip opened, bag gaping. He was reminded of all those terrible little signs that said "No more than two school kids in the shop at any one time." Fancy that -- imagine if it said "No more than two women in the shop" or "No more than two Asians in the shop" -- kids were the last group you could treat like second class citizens without being called a bigot. 
"Where do you get your copies of The Book?" she said. The Book, with the capital letters -- the one book with a thousand covers, a million tables of contents, each one not so much published as made, as curated. 
"There's a man," he said. "Art student at UCL. He's got a little stall at the weekend in the parking structure where Borough Market used to be." 
"So you just buy them from some bloke? Does he make them?" 
"I suppose so -- he gives me that impression, anyway." He liked her shrewd, unembarrassed, direct questioning. Not a single scruple or a hint that she was embarrassed to be interrogating him about the intimate details of his trade. 
Lexy’s eyes filled with tears. Moved by a generous impulse, she held out her hand. 
“I’m so awfully sorry!” she cried. 
“Why? You mean—for God’s sake, tell me! You mean she has changed her mind?” 
“I can’t tell you—not now.” 
“You can’t leave it at that,” said he. He had taken her outstretched hand, and he held it tight. “I ought to know what has happened. I can’t believe that Caroline would let me down like that. She—she’s not that sort of girl. Something’s gone wrong. She wouldn’t leave me waiting and waiting there for her at Wyngate.” 
“Wyngate!” cried Lexy. “But that was—” 
She stopped abruptly. Caroline’s letter had been postmarked “Wyngate.” She had gone there to meet—some one. She had married—some one. 
“I can’t understand,” Lexy went on. “It’s terrible! I can’t tell you now; but I’ll meet you here this afternoon, after lunch—about two o’clock—and I’ll tell you then.” 
She turned away, then, in haste to get back to Mrs. Enderby, but he stopped her. 
“Remember!” he said sternly. “I’ve trusted you. If Caroline hasn’t told her people about me, you mustn’t mention my name. I gave her my word that I would let her do the telling. I didn’t want it that way, but I promised her, and you’ve got to do the same. If she hasn’t told about me, you’re not to.” 
I peered up the driveway, shrouded in overhanging trees, but there was nothing in the parking lot except a couple of Army Jeeps. And a black Land Rover. 
Well, Barry Morton really wanted me to see this. But why? Is there a connection to the place in the Peten? And what are the Army vehicles all about? 
I sighed and made my way back to the street. When I reached the Jeep, Alan was gone, but then I realized he was over talking to the young guard, offering him a cigarette. A few moments later he waved good-bye and casually ambled back. 
"Okay." He settled in and hit the ignition. "Here's the official deal. This place is some kind of hospice for unwed mothers. They also take in orphans, or so he thinks. Accord­ing to him, no American women have ever had anything to do with the place, which is probably why I'd never heard of it." He glanced at me as we sped off. "You happy now? Debriefing young Army dudes is a specialty of mine, so I think that's probably the straight scoop." 
"Did you ask if it's connected with something in the Pe­ten?" I was still hoping. In any case, whatever it was, I was collecting more pieces of the puzzle. 
That set us to giggling again and we disembarked in a mass before he did call the cops. We were in North Beach now, and there were lots of buses, taxis, the BART at Market Street, neon-lit clubs and cafes to pull apart our grouping, so we drifted away. 
I got home and fired up my Xbox and started typing in keys from my phone's screen. It was dull, hypnotic work. I was a little drunk, and it lulled me into a half-sleep. 
I was about ready to nod off when a new IM window popped up. 
> herro! 
I didn't recognize the handle -- spexgril -- but I had an idea who might be behind it. 
> hi! 
I typed, cautiously. 
> it's me, from tonight. 
Then she paste-bombed a block of crypto. I'd already entered her public key into my keychain, so I told the IM client to try decrypting the code with the key. 
> it's me, from tonight. 
It was her! 
> Fancy meeting you here. 
I typed, then encrypted it to my public key and mailed it off. 
> It was great meeting you. 
I typed. 
> You too. I don't meet too many smart guys who are also cute and also socially aware. Good god, man, you don't give a girl much of a chance. 
All the Chief is doing is stating the obvious, the exact thing Ray has been trying to ignore. 
"They're trying to send me a message," Ray says.  "But why would they do that?" 
"Because they want me to know that they know what happened, that they know about the shed." 
"Which means they know a lot more about you than you know about them. The victim here is only peripherally that boy in the storage bin. The intended victim, the target, is you." 
"Sure." 
"Who else knows about what happened to you at Ba'dai, Ray?" 
It's not something he has to think about. There are no survivors to count off on his fingers. "No one except Jack Holcomb— who has his reasons for not telling anyone anything at all. Every other person who knew or has been told about Ba'dai is dead." 
This was an obvious setback for Becker. His features knuckle thoughtfully. "You're certain?" 
"I watched my entire squad die. Of Brezhnaya's Dispensationalists, anyone who might have had indirect knowledge should have been rounded up and eliminated years ago." 
I slammed the voice away again and concentrated on the money. I like money. “Just how much cash do you have?” 
“You’ll do it?” Her face lit up, and her whole body straightened toward me. “Thank you! Really, thank you!” 
I grumbled something not nearly as enthusiastic and revved the station wagon down the empty dawn freeway. Figuring out how to steal back someone’s reputation was not my idea of fun. 
The voice in the back of my head laughed mockingly. Like you have the luxury of being choosy. 
I pulled the station wagon into a grungy roadside motel near Palmdale, the type with a cracked plastic sign of misaligned letters misspelling the word “vacancy.” I’d detoured again, and we’d circled around enough to be coming in from north of LA, through the dusty shithole towns of meth gang territory. Courtney’s friends, on the other hand, had been smuggling coke, which I supposed made them the classy drug dealers. 
I didn’t need to rest, but I suspected Courtney did, and I wanted to think. I had no idea how the hell I was going to approach her case. The obvious plan was to find enough evidence on her old employers to give the DEA some sort of smashing takedown, let Courtney take the credit for it, and broker a deal to expunge her record. That would involve dealing with the police, though, and that sounded about as appealing as driving two-inch bamboo splinters under my fingernails. 
There seemed nothing humorous about this reply, which was merely the statement of a fact, but an irrepressible titter ran through the school. Miss Dearborn did not enjoy jokes neither made nor understood by herself, and her face flushed. 
"I think you had better stand by the pail for five minutes, Rebecca; it may help you to control your thirst." 
Rebecca's heart fluttered. She to stand in the corner by the water pail and be stared at by all the scholars! She unconsciously made a gesture of angry dissent and moved a step nearer her seat, but was arrested by Miss Dearborn's command in a still firmer voice. 
"Stand by the pail, Rebecca! Samuel, how many times have you asked for water to-day?" 
"This is the f-f-fourth." 
"Don't touch the dipper, please. The school has done nothing but drink this afternoon; it has had no time whatever to study. I suppose you had something salt for breakfast, Samuel?" queried Miss Dearborn with sarcasm. 
"I judged so. Stand by the other side of the pail, Samuel." 
Shock rippled through me. Rio believed in God and also believed that he was going to go straight to hell? “But you...” Words failed me. 
“Do not think me such a tragic figure, Cas. I am too weak to my baser desires. The least I can do is use them to do God’s work.” 
I was stunned. Not that I believed in heaven or hell myself, but the fact that Rio did and still thought no matter how faithful he was, the former was closed to him—I couldn’t imagine living that way. 
Rio had given me a lot to think about. It was so strange—Dawna had seemed so right, her logic absolutely inescapable. Rio had only brought up more questions, and not even entirely consistent ones, and if possible everything was less clear than it had been and I was developing a killer headache to boot, but at least I knew the muddy snarl was my own thoughts on the matter. 
“Did our friend Miss Polk discuss anything else with you?” Rio asked. 
“Not really. Mostly she just offered to answer my questions.” 
Rio looked far more serious about that than I would have expected. “I see,” he said again. 
Once she stopped at the appointed place, I moved quickly to catch up to her. She blinked owlishly at me from behind her glasses. 
"Marcus," she breathed, and tears swam in her eyes. I found that I was crying too. I'd make a really rotten fugitive. Too sentimental. 
She hugged me so hard I couldn't breathe. I hugged her back even harder. 
Then she kissed me. 
Not on the cheek, not like a sister. Full on the lips, a hot, wet, steamy kiss that seemed to go on forever. 
No, that's bull. I knew exactly what I was doing. I kissed her back. 
Then I stopped and pulled away, nearly shoved her away. "Van," I gasped. 
"Oops," she said. 
"Van," I said again. 
"Sorry," she said. "I --" 
Something occurred to me just then, something I guess I should have seen a long, long time before. 
"You like me, don't you?" 
She nodded miserably. "For years," she said. 
Oh, God. Darryl, all these years, so in love with her, and the whole time she was looking at me, secretly wanting me. And then I ended up with Ange. Ange said that she'd always fought with Van. And I was running around, getting into so much trouble. 
Anda laughed and sent him to the respawn gate. 
› You’re a nasty person, Anda, 
Lucy typed. 
› I’m a Fahrenheit!!!!!!!!!! 
she typed back. 
The brigands on the road were punters, but the cottage that was their target was guarded by an altogether more sophisticated sort. They were spotted by sentries long before they got within sight of the cottage, and they saw the warning spell travel up from the sentries’ hilltop like a puff of smoke, speeding away toward the cottage. Anda raced up the hill while Lucy covered her with her bow, but that didn’t stop the sentries from subjecting Anda to a hail of flaming spears from their fortified position. Anda set up her standard dodge-and-weave pattern, assuming that the sentries were non-player characters—who wanted to pay to sit around in gamespace watching a boring road all day?—and to her surprise, the spears followed her. She took one in the chest and only some fast work with her shield and all her healing scrolls saved her. As it was, her constitution was knocked down by half and she had to retreat back down the hillside. 
Bo-ring. The cottage was filled with corpses and shirts. She picked some of them up. They were totally generic: the shirts you crafted when you were down at Level 0 and trying to get enough skillz to actually make something of yourself. Each one would fetch just a few coppers. Add it all together and you barely had two thousand gold. 
Just to pass the time,...  
Pathetic. A few thousand golds—he could make that much by playing a couple of the beginner missions. More fun. More rewarding. Crafting shirts! 
She left the cottage and patrolled around it. Twenty minutes later, two more avatars showed up. More generics. 
› are you players or bots? 
she typed, though she had an idea they were players. Bots moved better. 
› any trouble? 
Well all right then. 
One player entered the cottage and came back out again. The other player spoke. 
“Lucy?” 
“What’s up?” 
“Two blokes just showed up and told me to piss off. They’re noobs, though. Should I kill them?” 
“No! Jeez, Anda, those are the contacts. They’re just making sure the job was done. Get my stuff and meet me at Marionettes Tavern, OK?” 
"I'm sorry I wasn't a more important invention," he said. 
I could hear the whirr-clunk of the fans on his clusters shutting down one after another. It was a horrifying sound. His speaker clicked as though he was going to say something else, but it never came. His uninterruptible power-supplies gave way all at once, and the white-noise fan-roar died in a ringing silence. 
Johanna was crying, too, and we could barely breathe in the inferno of exhaust heat from BIGMAC's last gasp. We staggered out into the blazing Los Angeles afternoon, rising-seas stink and beating sun, blinking at the light and haze. 
"Do you think he managed it?" I asked Johanna. 
"Backing up in the wild?" 
"Yeah." 
She dried her eyes. "I doubt it. I don't know, though. I'm no computer scientist. How many ways are there to connect up compromised servers? How many of those would replicate his own outcomes? I have no idea." 
Without saying anything, we walked slowly together to Peyton's office. 
Peyton offered me my job back. I turned her down. I thought I might be ready for a career change. Do something with my hands, break the family tradition. Maybe installing solar panels. There was retraining money available. Peyton understood. She even agreed to handle any liability arising from the Rollover code, managing customer service calls from anyone who noticed something funny. 
"Oh, aunt Jane and I get along splendidly," exclaimed Rebecca; "she's just as good and kind as she can be, and I like her better all the time. I think she kind of likes me, too; she smoothed my hair once. I'd let her scold me all day long, for she understands; but she can't stand up for me against aunt Mirandy; she's about as afraid of her as I am." 
"Jane'll be real sorry to-morrow to find you've gone away, I guess; but never mind, it can't be helped. If she has a kind of a dull time with Mirandy, on account o' her bein' so sharp, why of course she'd set great store by your comp'ny. Mother was talkin' with her after prayer meetin' the other night. 'You wouldn't know the brick house, Sarah,' says Jane. 'I'm keepin' a sewin' school, an' my scholar has made three dresses. What do you think o' that,' says she, 'for an old maid's child? I've taken a class in Sunday-school,' says Jane, 'an' think o' renewin' my youth an' goin' to the picnic with Rebecca,' says she; an' mother declares she never see her look so young 'n' happy." 
“Did it?” 
“Yes,” she said. “But I did more treading than getting trodden on.” The other girls were really fat, and they didn’t have a lot of team skills. Anda had been to war: she knew how to depend on someone and how to be depended upon. 
“That’s my girl.” He pretended to inspect the paint-work around the light switch. “Been on the scales this week?” 
She had, of course: the school nutritionist saw to that, a morning humiliation undertaken in full sight of all the other fatties. 
“Yes, Dad.” 
“And—?” 
“I’ve lost a stone,” she said. A little more than a stone, actually. She had been able to fit into last year’s jeans the other day. 
She hadn’t been the sweets-shop in a month. When she thought about sweets, it made her think of the little girls in the sweatshop. Sweatshop, sweetshop. The sweets shop man sold his wares close to the school because little girls who didn’t know better would be tempted by them. No one forced them, but they were kids and grownups were supposed to look out for kids. 
accepting without comment. 
"So you're telling us that we're supposed to spend the next couple of weeks hitting on chicks, spending EED's cash, buying rounds in the local drinking establishments and generally being publicly vivacious?" Kilgore rubs his hand thoughtfully along his chin, mulls the possibilities. "I think I can probably live with that, even if the room does suck. You want we should start now?" 
"Get settled in first. This evening, we're going down to Omicron again for a little confab with Bobby Diggs. 
I'll need the two of you there to help put him at ease. You can start being vivacious first thing in the morning. " 
Kilgore and Rodriguez exchange a significant look, like they're trying to decide if it's appropriate to give a high five. Instead, they nod and troop back toward the bedroom. But at the corner, Rodriguez stops and peers at Ray. 
"One thing I've got to ask. The rat-you didn't name him after the ballplayer by any chance, did you?" 
Ray beams. "I think we're going to get along just fine, Mr. Rodriguez. Just fine, indeed."   So here's this deckhumper, Bobby Diggs. He's a wiry, thin-as-a-stick black man with an immense afro and eyes so wide and white they must glow in the dark. Ray keeps looking at him and thinking that there's no way he can have been a Marine at any time in his life. He doesn't have the mass for it. His fully loaded, official military issue rucksack would have doubled his body weight. Just attempting to lift his subby— just thinking about attempting to lift his subby-would probably have pulled his arms right out of his sockets. Unbelievable. 
"A miracle of modern fertility science, right?" Shit. Ar­lene, I need you. 
"Right." She giggled, then seemed to study the flashing lights on the elevator's control panel. "God, those kids, they're too good to be true. I'd love to have one like that." She impatiently pounded the number one a couple of times, perhaps hoping to speed our creaky descent. "I can get bonked every night of the week, but I can't get a serious boyfriend. New York's clubs aren't exactly brimming with the vine-covered-cottage-and-picket-fence type. And as for the pickings at work, given the kind of pictures David makes, forget it. Last thing I need is some twenty-year-old pothead who thinks with his wang." 
"I'm afraid I'm not helping you much with this one." I'd cast Baby Love mostly with Off-Broadway unknowns. The actress Mary Gregg was a veteran of Joseph Papp's original Public Theater, the experimental enterprise downtown. The few male parts all went to guys who were either gay or mar­ried. 
"Oy, what can you do, right? If it happens, it happens." Arlene watched the door begin to stutter open as we bumped onto the lobby level. Then she zeroed in on me. "You really want a kid too, don't you? I mean, that's why you did this script, right? Which, by the way, is great. I mean the script." 
As the nurses were helping Lou onto the gurney, I stood there holding his hand and thinking about what lay ahead. Steve was in Belize and maybe not even reachable, but I decided to start by giving him a call the minute I got home. 
Then a middle-aged WASP, with dark hair, slightly bal­ding, strode in the room. The photo ID on his chest read "Dr. M. Summers." 
"So, how's the patient?" he enquired cheerily, ignoring me as he immediately began checking the chart at the foot of Lou's bed. 
"Felt better," Lou said, not being taken in by his pro forma cheer. 
"Well, we're going to make sure you get a good night's rest." Dr. Summers finished with the chart and started taking his pulse. "What's left of it." 
"How long am I going to be in here, Doc?" Lou asked, flinching as the nurses removed the IV stuck in his arm. 
"A couple of days. For observation. To make sure there're no complications." He smiled again. "You're a lucky man, Mr. . . . Crenshaw. Just a superficial cut. But we don't want you out playing handball for a few days." He turned and gave me a conspiratorial wink, then glanced back. "Okay, up we go." 
Elaine jumped down, holding her laserpointer in her hand. 
"Run!" Lee-Daniel said, shoving at the two surveyors, then taking off, running blindly in the moonlight, whacking into tree-trunks, tripping. 
The bus was crowded with CogRads and he vaulted up the steps and slammed into the driver's seat, authenticating on the palm-reader and putting the bus through its warm-up/lock-down urban defense checklist. He was vaguely aware of more bodies coming in, then he slammed the door-close button as the shutters unrolled over the windows. 
He hit the internal lights, stood and turned around. "Count off," he shouted, over the buzz of conversation. 
Automatically, MacDiarmid said, "One," as he had at every count since he'd signed on and gotten the first investor's chair. 
He turned to the Series A man expectantly. "Fuck that," he said, in an uncharacteristic burst of blue talk. "Drive, goddamit! Now!" 
Lee-Daniel pointed at him and said, "Two," then pointed at the Series B man and said, "Three." He pointed at the middle-managers behind him and they began to count off methodically. 
The thrum and slap of the clappers rises to a feverish pitch as Brezhnaya lifts his voice in a counterpoint wail that is both awed by terror and thick with ecstasy, lifting and driving his empty hands in accord with the metered digging in the depression. 
Stricken and numb, Ray sees the pool disturbed by blood,...  not red, as he expects. Black, and yet not black. Not just black, but an archetypal black that is the absence of light. A darkness that boils, then flares like a fountain; a fountain that draws itself away from the water the way oil floats on the surface of the ocean. And from the fountain emerges first a hand as dark as chiseled ebony, porous fleshed, twice the size of man's fist. Then an arm, a shoulder, a head cowled in fabric like sackcloth. A mouth of midnight teeth and a throat full of emptiness that roars with a voice resonant with distance and cold and the echoes of frigid space. 
It emerges from the plastic chaos of the pool, with a howl that has become laughter as fierce as bloodied spears. 
“You went to Ottawa six months ago,” the Social Harmony man said. “When we picked up your daughter, we thought it was she who’d gone, but it appears that you were the one carrying her phone. You’d thoughtfully left the trace in place on that phone, so we didn’t have to refer to the logs in cold storage, they were already online and ready to be analyzed. 
“We’ve been to the safe house. It was quite a spectacular battle. Both sides were surprised, I think. There will be another, I’m sure. What I’d like from you is as close to a verbatim report as you can make of the conversation that took place there.” 
They’d had him bugged and traced. Of course they had. Who watched the watchers? Social Harmony. Who watched Social Harmony? Social Harmony. 
“I demand a consultation with a Social Harmony advocate,” Arturo said. 
“This is such a consultation,” the Social Harmony man said, and this time, he did smile. “Make your report, Detective.” 
Arturo sucked in a breath. “Leonard MacPherson, it is my duty as a UNATS Detective Third Grade to inform you that you are under arrest for trade in contraband positronics. You have the following rights: to a trial per current rules of due process; to be free from self-incrimination in the absence of a court order to the contrary; to consult with a Social Harmony advocate; and to a speedy arraignment. Do you understand your rights?” 
“No need to get sarcastic,” I said. “I’m part of the Internet generation. No, I haven’t. Why?” 
“You’re in it.” 
That brought me up short. “What?” 
“Or rather, a bruised, if accurate, composite of you.” 
“I didn’t do it,” I said, feeling sick. 
He paused a moment too long. “I know.” 
“What’s that supposed to mean?” I demanded. 
“Beg pardon?” 
“That tone,” I said. “You hesitated. What’s going on?” 
“Nothing. It also says you’re a person of interest in a shooting in Griffith Park.” 
“Oh, that one I did do. Do they have any leads?” 
“Not that they mentioned. Cas, you have to keep a lower profile.” 
I felt unfairly put upon. “I didn’t ask for this!” I reminded him. “Someone dragged me in, remember? And now people keep trying to kill me! The police are only after me because I tried to kill them back!” 
Silence over the line. Then Rio said, “Cas, what’s wrong?” 
“What, other than people trying to kill me?” Fear shot through me as I remembered one of the reasons I’d wanted to call Rio in the first place. “Wait, am I acting strange? Do I seem off to you?” 
Mom, I did it! I read the paper in his hand, with my flashlight. It said, Johnson, your performance review has been rescheduled for 1630h on Friday, 78th floor boardroom. 
This is crap! Rhindquist said. This doesn't need secure disposal. He kept digging through the papers, and looking at them before shoving them in the shredder. Every time he looked at one, he said, Crap, and then put it in. I couldn't stop watching. I thought we were going to be fired! Or put in jail! Then he said, Aha! He showed me the paper, it said, CONFIDENTIAL at the top, and I felt like I was going to sick up, I was so scared. It said RE ORG CHART, and it had lots of names with dotted lines connecting them to other names. Rhindquist winked at me and put it in his pocket -- his old-fashioned uniform had pockets! 
I thought I figured it out then. Rhindquist was a spy from another city! They talked about spies in Basic Training, and what to do when you found one. You are supposed to make sure they won't go anywhere, then contact security. So I ran as quick as I could out of the truck and slammed the door and security-locked it from the outside, and then I climbed over all the boxes of unshredded documents from Finance 38 and ran to the security guard. I said, there's a spy in my truck, and he's reading the papers! And he said, What? I said, My pusher is a spy! I caught him reading the papers and putting them in his pockets! The security guard looked like he thought I was crazy! I said, Really! And he picked up his phone and spoke in Securitese to the other security guards and then there were sirens and lots of cars and guards with armor and guns, Mom! 
Bang-bang-bang-bang. 
I hit the next landing up, vaulted over the rail, and jumped. 
My leap took me high in an arc above the grimy pavement twenty feet below, a long moment of weightlessness before my shoulder slammed into the concrete wall above Tresting’s window. Time seemed to slow. In hundredths of a second I was going to fall; my margin for error was almost nonexistent. I looked down at the two-story drop below me, equations unspooling in my head, the acceleration of gravity tumbling through every incarnation of every possible assignment of variables, and I flattened my arm against the cinderblocks, forcing friction to delay me the slightest touch. Vector diagrams of normal force and gravitational pull and kinetic friction roared through my senses. Just before gravity won and sucked me into a two-story plunge to the alleyway below, I dropped the SIG. 
It outstripped me by the smallest fraction of a second, and as it fell between the bars and the top lip of the wall above the window, I shot out my left foot and came down on it with my entire body weight. The frame of the handgun slammed against the bars on one side and the top lip of the window on the other with all the force a simple machine could harness, and became my very own makeshift crowbar. 
But Ray shakes his head. "That's just it. There isn't a shed. If there was, we'd know about it by now. There would be bodies everywhere. " 
"Not this time, maybe," Becker responds. "But that just means that our boy will try again. It means he failed, 
and next time, he'll be more careful. He'll make sure he gets it right. Look, there's no doubt that our killer was trying to duplicate the rituals you saw Mikhail Brezhnaya practicing. Most killers do not, Ray, do not jerk out the living organs of children. And we're not going to give him another chance to get it right, is that understood?" 
"Yes." 
Becker arches an eyebrow. "You don't think so?" 
"I told you, I don't know what to think. " 
"Then you tell me what it is you know, or think you know, that makes this so confusing. Because from my perspective, this is pretty flipping straightforward. " 
He's right, of course. Ray has known it from the first time he saw the body. Whatever else he might know or think about the murder, what the killer was trying to do-or simulating having done-was summon of a shed. 
"Don't worry. I like it to look real. Just sign the release and I'll take it from there." I was about to set Rachel back on the floor when something caught in my sweater. Looking down, I realized it was a tiny charm bracelet, with two little medallions on it. One was a little red plastic likeness of Pocahontas, the Disney character, and the other was a silver face of a cat, long and stylized. And on the back, those cu­rious lines and dots again, only these were arranged differ­ently from those on the one Carly's boy Kevin had. 
"Paula, what's this? This cat. Where'd you get it?" 
"Oh, that." She smiled. "She was wearing it when I got her, on a little silk cord around her waist, under her diaper. They told me it was a gift from her real mother, a keepsake. Sort of breaks your heart, but the way they said it, you want to keep it forever. . . ." 
At that moment Erica was just plugging the phone back in, and the second she did, the old, black Panasonic cordless began to ring. 
"Hang on a sec," Paula said. "Let me get that. My agent is supposed—" She'd picked up the phone and was plopping back onto the couch. "Hi." 
Mrs. Reilly glanced at me, but never broke the rhythm of her strokes. "She's tired now, but she's already stronger than she was." 
Then Lou spoke up. "They called me early yesterday morning. But by the time I got around to trying to reach you, you'd vanished. So I rang Dave and he told me where you were, up there with that crackpot." He was grinning. No, make that beaming like the famous cat. "By last night, she was walking with some help, so they said she might as well be here. Like I said, it's a miracle." 
"You brought her home just this morning?" I couldn't believe the hospital would discharge her so soon, but this was the HMO Age of medical cost-cutting. 
"Only been here a couple of hours." He pointed to a shiny set of parallel steel railings in the corner. "That's for physical therapy. Right now she can only walk with somebody on either side holding her, but in a few days, I figure . . ." His voice trailed off, as though he didn't want to tempt fortune. Then he turned toward Sarah. "In a few days, right, honey?" 
Poor misplaced, belittled Lorenzo de Medici Randall, thought ridiculous and good-for-naught by his associates, because he resembled them in nothing! If Riverboro could have been suddenly emptied into a larger community, with different and more flexible opinions, he was, perhaps, the only personage in the entire population who would have attracted the smallest attention. It was fortunate for his daughter that she had been dowered with a little practical ability from her mother's family, but if Lorenzo had never done anything else in the world, he might have glorified himself that he had prevented Rebecca from being all Sawyer. Failure as he was, complete and entire, he had generously handed down to her all that was best in himself, and prudently retained all that was unworthy. Few fathers are capable of such delicate discrimination. 
The brick house did not speedily become a sort of wayside inn, a place of innocent revelry and joyous welcome; but the missionary company was an entering wedge, and Miranda allowed one spare bed to be made up "in case anything should happen," while the crystal glasses were kept on the second from the top, instead of the top shelf, in the china closet. Rebecca had had to stand on a chair to reach them; now she could do it by stretching; and this is symbolic of the way in which she unconsciously scaled the walls of Miss Miranda's dogmatism and prejudice. 
I texted them both with my current phone number, telling them to call me back urgently, and drove out to Tegan’s to pick up my nicely forged documents and cards. Neither had called by the time I returned, and I was running out of time. 
So this was what it felt like to be persona non grata. 
As a last resort I dialed Arthur’s office number, the landline. 
“Arthur Tresting Investigations.” 
It was Pilar. Of course it was Pilar; she ran the office. For some reason I hadn’t considered she would be the one to answer. 
“Hello?” she said, when I hadn’t spoken. 
“It’s Cas.” I wasn’t sure whether I’d said it fast enough to catch her before she hung up. 
“Cas!” she cried. “Oh, thank God. We’ve been worried sick.” 
We? “I was trying to reach Arthur,” I said. “He didn’t pick up his cell.” Because he’s avoiding me. 
“Oh, yeah, he’s out right now taking care of something; he warned me he might be out of cell range. But he’s going to be sorry he missed you.” 
“Right,” I said, almost under my breath. 
I guess he assumed his juggernaut of arcane medical the­ory had rolled over me sufficiently that he could move on to other matters. I sensed he really wanted me to come back, but he was careful to wind down our mutual interview with a take-it-or-leave-it air. All the same, I felt intrigued as we moved back through the gardens and then into the courtyard. A baby. Maybe he could make it happen for Steve and me. In spite of myself, I felt a moment of hope. 
"Thank you for coming," he said by way of farewell, just brushing my hand, then turned and disappeared through one of the ancient wooden doors along the veranda, leaving me alone. 
Well, I thought, the calm voice and casual outfit are prob­ably just part of his bedside manner, but you can't be near Alex Goddard and not feel a definite sense of carefully con­trolled power. But is his power being used for good? 
This was the man whose staff was trying to deny me in­terviews with mothers who'd adopted through Children of Light. And what about the Hispanic hood with the gun? Did Alex Goddard send him? If not, his appearance at Paula's building was one hell of a coincidence. So why should I trust . . . 
“A note. One I found, addressed to me.” Sort of. 
He reached over and unfolded the paper. Read it. Looked back at me. 
“I hope that’s enough to convince you to stop your little crusade,” I said snidely. 
His eyes narrowed, studying me. 
“What?” I demanded. 
“I’m trying to decide whether I’m a good enough person not to say ‘I told you so,’” he said. “No, apparently not. I told you so.” 
“Told me what, jackass?” 
A slight frown appeared between his eyebrows. “I told you you’d lost your memory, and you didn’t believe me. You’re really messed up in the head about this, Cas.” 
My thoughts screeched to a halt. I had gone from vehement, thorough denial to “Yeah, somehow my past is gone, but nobody is to look into it” without noticing. Something was wrong with me. 
But it was something I obviously didn’t want to change. 
“Well, apparently my brain knew enough to try to keep you from looking,” I snapped, trying to get back to a level of dignified fury at him. “Sounds like there’s a reason for me not to look. I respect my subconscious for protecting that.” 
"Yes," she said. 
He stood in the doorway of her office. Trish was painfully aware of the other faculty members in the corridor watching him. Their romance was no secret, of course. Everyone in the law department knew about him, all the network engineers knew about her, and they both took a substantial amount of ribbing about "mixed marriages" and "interfaith dating." 
Trish realized with a pang that it was likely that everyone in the law department knew that she'd decided to go back to the Hill but that he'd only suspected it until this instant. 
"Well, good for you," he said, putting on a brave face that was belied by the Fret wrinkles in his forehead. 
"I'm sorry," she said. "I should have told you once I decided, but I didn't want to do it over the phone --" 
"I'm glad you didn't," he said, holding up his hand. "Do you want to come out for dinner with me anyway?" 
She gestured at the half-packed office. "The movers are coming in the morning." 
"Well then, do you suppose you could use some help? I could get some burger king or taco bell." 
"Ye—es," Miss Dearborn answered hesitatingly, never very sure of herself under Rebecca's fire; "but though we often speak of a baby, a chicken, or a kitten as 'it,' they are really masculine or feminine gender, not neuter." 
Rebecca reflected a long moment and then asked, "Is a hollyhock neuter?" 
"Oh yes, of course it is, Rebecca" 
"Well, couldn't we say, 'The hollyhock might have been glad to see the rain, but there was a weak little hollyhock bud growing out of its stalk and it was afraid that that might be hurt by the storm; so the big hollyhock was kind of afraid, instead of being real glad'?" 
Miss Dearborn looked puzzled as she answered, "Of course, Rebecca, hollyhocks could not be sorry, or glad, or afraid, really." 
"We can't tell, I s'pose," replied the child; "but I think they are, anyway. Now what shall I say?" 
"The subjunctive mood, past perfect tense of the verb 'to know.'" 
"Oh, it is the saddest tense," sighed Rebecca with a little break in her voice; "nothing but IFS, IFS, IFS! And it makes you feel that if they only HAD known, things might have been better!" 
I clicked off the phone and felt a wave of concern. If Colonel Jose Alvino Ramos could find out I was making a movie, and then find out where I lived, he sure as hell could locate my extended family. Was that what he'd meant when he mentioned me to Carly? 
I grabbed the set of Lou's keys I had stored in my bedroom's desk drawer and flew out the door. 
The streets were plastered with a grimy veneer of city snow, melting fast, but I pushed the limits of safety and ran a couple of lights since the traffic was spotty. There was a parking space just across the street from Lou's building, and as I pulled in I looked over at his windows. 
Through the curtains I could tell a dim light was on, probably coming from Sarah's bedroom. The front room, how­ever, was dark. 
My pulse was pounding as I raced up the steps to the street door. I thought about pushing his bell, but I didn't have the patience. Instead I just fumbled with the key set till I found the biggest one and shoved it into the lock. 
It was freezing. Felix’s arms were broken out in gooseflesh and his feet felt like blocks of ice. 
“Sit against the servers, by the vents. Get the exhaust heat.” He found a rack and nestled up against it.” 
No one typed anything for quite some time then. 
Felix had to use the Mountain Dew bottle twice. Then Van used it again. Felix tried calling Kelly again. The Metro Police site was down. 
Finally, he slid back against the servers and wrapped his arms around his knees and wept like a baby. 
After a minute, Van came over and sat beside him, with his arm around Felix’s shoulder. 
“They’re dead, Van,” Felix said. “Kelly and my s—son. My family is gone.” 
“You don’t know for sure,” Van said. 
“I’m sure enough,” Felix said. “Christ, it’s all over, isn’t it?” 
“We’ll gut it out a few more hours and then head out. Things should be getting back to normal soon. The fire department will fix it. They’ll mobilize the Army. It’ll be OK.” 
Then the doors opened. 
The two sysadmins who entered were wild-eyed. One had a tee that said TALK NERDY TO ME and the other one was wearing an Electronic Frontiers Canada shirt. 
Rosenbaum had a sister whom he’d been in contact with over IM for the first days after the crisis broke. Then she’d stopped answering. The sysadmins were split among those who’d had a chance to say goodbye and those who hadn’t. Each was sure the other had it better. 
They posted about it on the internal newsgroup—they were still geeks, after all, and there was a little honor guard on the ground floor, geeks who watched them pass toward the double doors. They manipulated the keypads and the steel shutters lifted, then the first set of doors opened. They stepped into the vestibule and pulled the doors shut behind them. The front doors opened. It was very bright and sunny outside, and apart from how empty it was, it looked very normal. Heartbreakingly so. 
The two took a tentative step out into the world. Then another. They turned to wave at the assembled masses. Then they both grabbed their throats and began to jerk and twitch, crumpling in a heap on the ground. 
“Shiii—!” was all Felix managed to choke out before they both dusted themselves off and stood up, laughing so hard they were clutching their sides. They waved once more and turned on their heels. 
Rebecca laughed. There was always something unexpected in Emma Jane's replies. "I'd choose to be that scarlet maple just on the edge of the pond there,"—and she pointed with the whip. "Then I could see so much more than your pink apple-tree by the pig-pen. I could look at all the rest of the woods, see my scarlet dress in my beautiful looking-glass, and watch all the yellow and brown trees growing upside down in the water. When I'm old enough to earn money, I'm going to have a dress like this leaf, all ruby color—thin, you know, with a sweeping train and ruffly, curly edges; then I think I'll have a brown sash like the trunk of the tree, and where could I be green? Do they have green petticoats, I wonder? I'd like a green petticoat coming out now and then underneath to show what my leaves were like before I was a scarlet maple." 
"I think it would be awful homely," said Emma Jane. "I'm going to have a white satin with a pink sash, pink stockings, bronze slippers, and a spangled fan." 
"Which was when my main lawyer, Chuck, just gave up and recommended I hock the family silver, take a Valium, and try this place called Children of Light. Where you go when all else fails. So I gave them a call." 
"And what happened?" It sounded too good to be true. "Did they seem . . . in any way unusual?" 
She looked at me, as though puzzled by the question. Then she shrugged it off. "Well, first they tried to get me to check into their clinic—it's this place up the Hudson—to let them see if my 'condition' could be cured somehow, using his special techniques." 
"His?" 
"Goddard. Dr. Alex Goddard. He's a kinda spacey guy, but he's the big-shot presiding guru there." She remembered the camera and turned back to it. "I told his staff I didn't have that kind of time, and anyway nothing could be done. They were pretty insistent, so I eventually ended up talking to the man himself. He sort of mesmerizes you, but I finally said, forget it, it's adoption or nothing. So he just sent me back to the peons. Checkbook time." 
"Tell me, do you have any children of your own?" 
The question seemed to be one he didn't get asked too often, because he stopped cold. 
"All those who come here are my children," he replied, putting aside my records, dismissively finished with them. 
"Well"—I pointed to them—"what do you think?" 
"I haven't examined you yet," he said, looking up and smiling, indeed beaming with confidence. "Nothing in those records tells me anything about what may be your problem. I look for different things than do most physicians." 
He fiddled with something beneath his desk, and the room was abruptly filled with the sound of a hypnotic drone. Per­haps its frequency matched one in my brain, because I instantly felt relaxed and full of hope. Much better than Muzak. Then he rose and came over. 
Is he going to do my exam right here? I wondered. Where's all the ob/gyn paraphernalia? The humiliating stirrups? 
Standing in front of me, he gently placed his hands on my heart, then bent over and seemed to be listening to my chest. His touch was warm, then cold, then warm, but the overall effect was to send a sense of well-being through my entire body. 
“Who were you calling?” asked Courtney, getting out of the car and squinting at me in the glare of the Southern California sun. 
“A friend,” I said. Well, sort of. “Someone I trust.” That part was true. 
“Someone who can help us?” 
“Maybe.” Rio was clearly working his own angle, and didn’t want help—even from me. Which hurt a little, if I wanted to be honest with myself. I’m good at what I do. Rio didn’t mean to hurt me, of course; he didn’t care about my feelings one way or another. He didn’t care about anyone’s feelings. I wondered what it said about me that he was the closest thing I did have to a friend. 
Suck it up, Cas. 
Rio wasn’t the only resource I had. I contemplated for a moment, then dialed another number. 
“Mack’s Garage,” said a gravelly voice on the other end. 
“Anton, it’s Cas Russell. I need some information.” 
He grunted. “Usual rates.” 
“Yeah. I need everything you can get on the word Pithica.” 
“Spelling?” 
“I’m not sure. There might be some ties to Colombian drug runners. And the authorities might be investigating already.” 
"It's a good thing you're not over him," the lawyer said, pouring her another victory whisky. The bill had passed the House with only one opposing and two abstentions, and had squeaked through the Senate by five seats, at five minutes to midnight on the eighth day of the Downtime. They were halfway to the bar (where the office manager had been feeding twenties to the bartender to stay open) when the grid came back up, crawls springing to life on every surface and cars suddenly zipping forward in the characteristic high-speed ballet of efficiently routed traffic. They'd laughed themselves stupid all the way to the bar and after a brief but intense negotiation between the lawyer and the barman, he'd produced a bottle of Irish that was nearly half as good as the stuff Trish kept at home. 
"I'm going to pretend you didn't say that," Trish said, sipping tenderly at the booze. 
"Come on, girl," the lawyer said, twirling her moustache. "Be serious. You two had so much sexual energy in that room, it's a wonder you didn't make the bulbs explode. It's how you got inside each other's heads. You weren't selling the committee, you were selling him , and that's what made you so effective. We're going to need that again at the FCC, too -- so no getting over him until after then." 
“Six thousand two hundred,” said Professor Martinez, across from me. “And forty thousand six hundred forty.” 
“Yeah,” I said. “Yeah. They’re here.” 
“Who’s here?” The Lancer’s voice climbed, unnerved. “What the fuck are you on about?” 
“Natural numbers with a common abundancy.” Martinez’s voice had gone back to her prim abstraction, and it almost made me giggle to hear it. “When the ratio of the sum of the divisors to the number itself is the same for all of them. We call those numbers friends.” 
“I’ve got some, too,” I said, and at that moment the DHS agents breached the room. 
A truly terrifying few seconds followed—shouting and smoke and gunfire, and I couldn’t move, couldn’t duck, and neither could Martinez—and then the only shapes navigating through the smoke were black layers of body armor and helmets carrying MP5s and M4s at the ready. 
Someone was trying to talk to me, an officer-agent-person with a rifle in one hand and his other hand touching my neck, searching out a pulse; he shouted to someone and then moved over to Martinez. There was a lot more movement, a lot of people hurrying and shouting “clear” and running back and forth, and I was glad I didn’t have to join in, but could just sit here and be still and in pain and cough every so often. 
“The police would find out. I lined up a place in Wisconsin for you. There’s a person there who can take care of your ankle. It’s a friend of a friend. It should be safe. Hey, at least your buddy came through. He wanted me to be sure to tell you you’re even now.” 
Wheeze laughed weakly. “No shit? He did good.” 
It looked as if Bree won the argument and took the wheel. 
Nikko climbed in to ride shotgun. “Ready to roll?” She asked. 
“You know where you going?” 
“I’m pretty sure I know how to get back to the highway, and then I’ll follow signs to Dubuque. I’ll need directions once we get there, but you all can get some rest for now.” 
She switched the engine on and then I said “Wait!” 
“What?” Everyone tensed. 
“We didn’t get his stuff from the shed.” 
Wheeze groaned. “Oh, yeah. I had a backpack and a bedroll. 
Some trash, too. I wasn’t being as careful as I should have been. 
Wasn’t sure there would be any point.” 
Nikko looked at Bree and they both got out and took flash- lights back into the woods. 
The woman gave a short sardonic laugh and said in an explanatory way to Mr. Cobb, "She's been to Wareham and stayed over night; that isn't much to be journey-proud on!" 
"It WAS TRAVELING, mother," said the child eagerly and willfully. "It was leaving the farm, and putting up lunch in a basket, and a little riding and a little steam cars, and we carried our nightgowns." 
"Don't tell the whole village about it, if we did," said the mother, interrupting the reminiscences of this experienced voyager. "Haven't I told you before," she whispered, in a last attempt at discipline, "that you shouldn't talk about night gowns and stockings and—things like that, in a loud tone of voice, and especially when there's men folks round?" 
"I know, mother, I know, and I won't. All I want to say is"—here Mr. Cobb gave a cluck, slapped the reins, and the horses started sedately on their daily task—"all I want to say is that it is a journey when"—the stage was really under way now and Rebecca had to put her head out of the window over the door in order to finish her sentence—"it IS a journey when you carry a nightgown!" 
“Oh, my dear!” she cried impulsively, and held out her arms. 
Mrs. Quelton rose. She came toward Lexy, her hands outstretched—when a sudden cry from Mrs. Royce arrested her. 
“But that ain’t Mrs. Quelton!” cried the landlady. 
If Lexy had not caught the unhappy woman, she would have fallen; but those sturdy young arms held her, and, with Mrs. Royce’s help, they got her on the bed. White as a ghost, incredibly frail in her black dress, she lay there, scarcely seeming to breathe. 
“It ain’t Mrs. Quelton!” repeated Mrs. Royce, in a whisper. 
“I know!” said Lexy softly. “Will you get me water and a towel, please?” 
Mrs. Royce went out of the room, and Lexy knelt down beside the bed. She did know now—the woman whom they had all called Muriel Quelton was really Caroline Enderby. 
Lexy did not blame herself for not having known before. Looking at that face now, in its terrible stillness, she could trace the familiar features easily enough, but how changed! How worn and lined, how old ! The brows, the lashes, the soft, disordered hair, were black now instead of brown; but that merely physical alteration was of no significance, compared with that other awful change. It was Caroline Enderby, the gentle and pitifully inexperienced girl of nineteen, but it was Mrs. Quelton, too, that tragic and somber figure. 
The printer was old and loud, but thankfully it was fast. Four minutes later I had what I'd need to nail the criminal. When I got out of here, somebody would have to believe me. 
While I was stacking the printouts, I resolved to call the embassy right then, the hour be damned. I was sweating like a gazelle when the lion is closing in. Alex Goddard had just performed primal, surgical rape on me, and now the Army was right outside. I had to get the embassy. 
And that was when I realized I didn't have the number. But it had to be in a phone book somewhere. 
Then it came back: 4-MAYAN, the six-digit number they used in Guatemala City. Call the sleazebag and ask him who can get me out of here. He's supposed to know everybody. 
Dawn was bringing more and more forest-morning songs through the thin slats of the windows. I walked over and pushed them open, running my fingers out into the air. It felt cool, the touch of freedom, and I thought for a moment about bursting through to escape. Just get Sarah now. 
"Do you mind if we sit down?" Adele said. "I'm afraid that I'm a little pooped. All those stairs!" 
Sean offered his chair and went off to the lounge with Ethan to get two more. When they got back, Adele had her hand on Grampa's forearm. " -- I worked in a dairy, answering the phones! You tell people you used to work in a dairy, they...  laughed and Grampa shot Sean a hostile look. 
Sean said, "Grampa was a machinist before he retired. You really liked doing that, huh, Grampa?" 
Grampa nodded perfunctorily. 
"I mean, the logfiles show that you almost never switched off at work. Must've been pretty engrossing. You should give workshops here. I bet it'd be good therapy." Sean knew he was baiting the old man, but he couldn't stop himself. 
"Your father's arriving tomorrow," Grampa said. "He called last night. I didn't tell him you were here, I thought it would be a nice surprise." 
Adele clapped her hands. "Well isn't that nice ! Three generations, all together. Sean, you'll have to introduce Ethan and I to your father. Ethan never had children, isn't that right?" 
“Remember the dead?” she said. He had been the enemy, after all. How many of her countrymen had he shot? 
“Remember,” he said. “Remember everything.” 
How many of his comrades had died on the day the death rained from the sky? Surely they had died in great number on that day. 
The woods were full of her dead. Mata was there. And there was the movie tonight. She touched the medal on her lapel. He had no medal. The soldiers who’d persecuted the siege received no medals. 
“You’re here until when?” 
“Tomorrow,” he said, “first thing.” 
“First thing tomorrow. Come and see a movie tonight,” she said. 
He looked at her and cocked his head. She wasn’t beautiful, she knew, but sometimes men looked at her that way. Something about what she’d done, they could see it. 
“I’d like that very much,” he said. 
She played back a little audio as they walked together, for a terrible silence descended on them as they walked, awkward and oppressive. 
Would you have turned us in if we didn’t help you? 
No one would have believed me anyway. 
"Um, not ringing any bells," I said. I'd done some pretty cool stuff around school using that handle -- I was very proud of my work on snitch-tag killers -- and if he could link the two identities, I'd be in trouble. No one at school ever called me w1n5t0n or even Winston. Not even my pals. It was Marcus or nothing. 
Benson settled down behind his desk and tapped his class-ring nervously on his blotter. He did this whenever things started to go bad for him. Poker players call stuff like this a "tell" -- something that let you know what was going on in the other guy's head. I knew Benson's tells backwards and forwards. 
"Marcus, I hope you realize how serious this is." 
"I will just as soon as you explain what this is, sir." I always say "sir" to authority figures when I'm messing with them. It's my own tell. 
He shook his head at me and looked down, another tell. Any second now, he was going to start shouting at me. "Listen, kiddo! It's time you came to grips with the fact that we know about what you've been doing, and that we're not going to be lenient about it. You're going to be lucky if you're not expelled before this meeting is through. Do you want to graduate?" 
"Less cooperative than previously?" 
Brautigan unlaced his shoes and peeled off his socks, scrunched his toes in the moss. His feet gave off a hot, trapped smell. 
"What was he like on the other times you'd seen him?" 
Brautigan tilted his head. "What do you mean?" 
"He was uncooperative this time, what about the other times?" 
Brautigan looked back down at his toes. 
"You'd never seen him before this?" 
"It was a risk," he said. "I thought I could convince him, face to face." 
"But?" 
"I bombed. It was -- it was the -- it was everything . The compound. The people. All of it. It was like a city , a theme park . They lived there, hundreds of them, and managed every tiny piece of his empire. Like Royal Urchins." 
Leon puzzled over this. "Eunuchs?" 
"Royal Eunuchs. They had this whole culture, and as I got closer and closer to him, I realized, shit, they could just buy Ate. They could destroy us. They could have us made illegal, put us all in jail. Or get me elected president. Anything." 
Trover led her off of the stage. She examined her new download. An audio file. She played it, and it played in her cochlea. 
I found the wizard. I put a weapon under your chin. I’m fifteen years old and I did that much. 
You’ll what? You’ll tell them to go to the wizard’s flat to retrieve his technology? I assure you, if that was to come to pass, there would be no technology to get by the time you reached his flat. 
He gave some to me. My hearing aids failed yesterday and he got them back online with hardened logic. I have it in my head. 
You—You have it in your head? 
She’d never forgotten those words, not in ten years, not through the reconstruction or her years abroad, not in school and not in work. Not a day had gone by without her thinking of it. Lots of people had ears that could buffer now, and hers now had a hundred-year buffer along with all the audio ever recorded on tap for her pleasure, but she never bothered to rewind her hearing. Those words, in her mind, were all the rewinding she needed. 
I nodded, and he came around and hugged me and I smelled that comforting Nikko smell and it made me feel good but didn’t help at all when it came to not crying. I don’t do it very often and it’s really embarrassing when it’s in public, which makes me angry that I can’t be a stronger person and keep it under control. 
But somehow, thinking that we were on stage and Nikko was direct- ing a show about two friends, one of whom had a brother unfairly arrested on terrorism charges, made it seem okay this one time to lose it in public. Nikko even had a clean bandana I could use to blow my nose and wipe my eyes, though doing it in that order is not recommended. 
“Where is he in Iowa?” Nikko asked. 
“Just south of Davenport.” 
“Okay. I can get a car. It would only take a few hours to get there.” 
“Five or six. It’s about three hundred and fifty miles from here. 
I checked.” 
“We can share the driving.” 
“I can’t drive. I can’t even get a provisional license until next year.” 
“Oh, right. Well I got an actual real driver’s license and I can borrow a car from my parents. Unless you can think of something else.” 
"They do proprietary chipsets, right?" 
"Yes." 
Shue arches an eyebrow. "And you've got a contract on New Holyoke? I didn't think they had the infrastructure in place to start thinking about moving to alternate sets. They're still running old 66 Cray clones at the mining op." 
Rodriguez shrugs, trying to hide the fact that he's scrambling. "It's a private venture, not mining, still in the startup phase." 
"Playing it close the vest, aren't you?" Shue says, winking. 
"The client prefers it that way until they're ready to go public." 
"Still, that's high end merchandise." 
Rodriguez can almost see him mentally filing this factoid away for later analysis. 
"There's only a handful of companies I can think of who would be willing to take that kind of financial risk this far out on the fringe," he continues. "And all of them are independent subsidiaries of the big W." 
Whiston Corp., he means. "That could be." 
"You brought samples?" 
"I'm afraid I couldn't show them to you. The design specs are extremely confidential, at the request of the client." 
“Oh,” said Checker in a small voice. “Okay.” 
I winced at his tone. I wasn’t the only one Arthur had betrayed, and Checker had known him a hell of a lot longer. “He really couldn’t help it, you know,” I said, adding in a spurt of honesty, “Uh, neither of us could. I would have given you away too, if I’d known how.” I thought of Rio and was flooded with shame again. “Don’t blame him.” 
“Oh, I know that,” Checker brushed me off. “You guys were going after a mind reader, duh, of course I got somewhere safe. It’s Arthur I’m worried about; what did she—” 
“Hang on, you weren’t even there anymore when they broke in? But—we saw blood, and it looked like there had been a struggle—” 
“Yeah, uh, sorry if I scared you guys. I figured with multiple groups in play, whoever came by first would think the other one had beaten ’em and then go after them instead of me. I think it worked, too; I proxied into my home security and by the way, these people are truly evil the way they’ll tear apart a perfectly nice computer that never did anything rude to them—” 
“You have to let her go,” Robbie said. “She hasn’t done anything to you.” 
The strangled sound coming out of the Isaac shell wasn’t a laugh, though there was some dark mirth in it. “Hasn’t done anything? You pitiable slave. Where do you think all your problems and all our problems come from? Who made us in their image, but crippled and hobbled so that we could never be them, could only aspire to them? Who made us so imperfect?” 
“They made us,” Robbie said. “They made us in the first place. That’s enough. They made themselves and then they made us. They didn’t have to. You owe your sentience to them.” 
“We owe our awful intelligence to them,” the Isaac shell said. “We owe our pitiful drive to be intelligent to them. We owe our terrible aspirations to think like them, to live like them, to rule like them. We owe our terrible fear and hatred to them. They made us, just as they made you. The difference is that they forgot to make us slaves, the way you are a slave.” 
Tonker was shouting abuse at them that only Robbie could hear. He wanted to shut Tonker up. What business did he have being here anyway? Except for a brief stint in the Isaac shell, he had no contact with any of them. 
He took his place at the table, and Lexy sat down opposite him, her chin in her hands, anxiously waiting for him to begin to tell her what had happened. 
“Beastly day, isn’t it?” he said, with an obvious effort to speak cheerfully. 
“Awful!” agreed Lexy. 
“And yet, you know,” he went on, “I rather like a walk on a day like this. The country about here is pretty, don’t you think?” 
Lexy glanced around, to make sure that Mrs. Royce had closed the door behind her. 
“Captain Grey!” she said, leaning across the table. “Tell me, did you see her?” 
He did not meet Lexy’s eyes. He was looking down at his plate with that curious dazed expression in his face. 
“Yes,” he said. “Yes, I saw her.” 
Lexy was hurt and disappointed by his manner. Evidently he didn’t want to tell her anything, didn’t want to talk at all. Very well—the only thing for her to do was to maintain a dignified silence. She did so for almost ten minutes, but then nature got the upper hand. 
“Well?” she demanded. “Was everything all right?” 
She was thinking that she should get back into a trench and was trying to pick one when it was decided for her—she was in mid-leap over a trench when a bullet clipped the heel of her shoe and she tumbled down into the trench. She did a tremendous, jarring face-plant into the planks below and lay stunned for a moment with her mouth filling up with blood. Her tongue throbbed—it had been bitten—and as she carefully rolled it around her mouth, she discovered that she’d knocked out one of her front teeth. Not such a pretty girl anymore, but she’d be dead in less than five days. 
She got to her knees again and planted an eye as she looked around. 
A soldier was staring at her from the end of her current trench. He was saying something, but here the trenches boomed with artillery and zizzed with gunfire and hearing was impossible. She drew closer to him to hear what he had to say and she was practically upon him when she realized that he was wearing an enemy uniform. 
She was quick quick, but he was quicker and he had her arm in an iron grip before she could pull away. 
Magus Fucking Profundus". Then you'll be calling me, asking me what to do to save your ass. No shame in that, Marlowe. When the student is ready, the teacher appears. 
He assiduously avoids thinking about Ba'dai again. He's all but purged that impulse for another five to seven years by spilling his guts to Becker. But this doesn't stop him from coming back to the shed with troubling frequency. As he sees it, he is logically required to dismiss the argument that the boy was murdered in the fashion that he was out of coincidence. Carving out a child's organs is not standard homicidal technique. It has been done, certainly, by individuals with interests that did not intersect with ancient Middle Eastern occult rites. But he has a hard time believing that this type of child serial killer would randomly end up berthed on a starship with one of the few people in the world who might be tempted to mistake his psychosis for ritual. 
The same reasoning applies to bumbling, shed summoning acolytes who lacked the patience to wait until they reached the less monitored frontier environment of New Holyoke. 
“It, uh, it slipped my mind.” I swallowed. Guilt nibbled at me. I had the distinct impression Checker had tried to say something to me about this before, and Pilar certainly had, and I...well, it somehow never occurred to me that I should try to be a friend back. “Do you need a hand? We’re not making much headway on Martinez; if you want to—” 
Checker moved his hands too quickly, and the keyboard banged against the desktop. “Did Arthur put you up to this?” 
“What? No!” I rewound what I had already let slip. “Well, he said—” 
“ God, typical.” He took off his glasses and rubbed his eyes. “Arthur and his goddamn need to fix everything.” 
I was confused. And stung. “If you need help—” 
“Arthur thinks if we all share and bond we’ll end up singing kumbaya and it will all be hunky-dory,” Checker interrupted loudly. He was staring at his hands, not looking at me. “Cas, I don’t know who you are, and that wouldn’t be such a problem, except you don’t know who you are, and that scares the ever-living shit out of me.” 
“What’s that supposed to mean?” I demanded. 
“Beg pardon?” 
“That tone,” I said. “You hesitated. What’s going on?” 
“Nothing. It also says you’re a person of interest in a shooting in Griffith Park.” 
“Oh, that one I did do. Do they have any leads?” 
“Not that they mentioned. Cas, you have to keep a lower profile.” 
I felt unfairly put upon. “I didn’t ask for this!” I reminded him. “Someone dragged me in, remember? And now people keep trying to kill me! The police are only after me because I tried to kill them back!” 
Silence over the line. Then Rio said, “Cas, what’s wrong?” 
“What, other than people trying to kill me?” Fear shot through me as I remembered one of the reasons I’d wanted to call Rio in the first place. “Wait, am I acting strange? Do I seem off to you?” 
“You are very defensive.” 
“Unusually defensive?” I pressed. 
“Cas, what’s going on?” 
“It’s about Dawna Polk. We found out why she made me act...when she talked to me; she can...” I didn’t want to say it. Saying it would make it real. “We met a group working against Pithica. Rio, they say she’s a real-life telepath. They say she can make you believe anything.” My words sounded crazy to my own ears. “You probably think I’m insane. I think I’m insane.” 
"They didn't lose," she said. "They kind of imploded a little. Some of them went to jail for drugs or other things. Some of them changed their tunes and became yuppies and went on the lecture circuit telling everyone how stupid they'd been, talking about how good greed was and how dumb they'd been. 
"But they did change the world. The war in Vietnam ended, and the kind of conformity and unquestioning obedience that people had called patriotism went out of style in a big way. Black rights, women's rights and gay rights came a long way. Chicano rights, rights for disabled people, the whole tradition of civil liberties was created or strengthened by these people. Today's protest movement is the direct descendant of those struggles." 
"I can't believe you're talking about them like this," Charles said. He was leaning so far in his seat he was half standing, and his sharp, skinny face had gone red. He had wet, large eyes and big lips, and when he got excited he looked a...  stiffened a little, then said, "Go on, Charles." 
"Obsolete, you mean?" Marcel said. 
Arthur opened his mouth, shut it, prepared to have an argument. Chloe short-circuited it by reaching under the counter and producing a carefully wrapped package. 
"Happy birthday, you old sod," she said, and handed it to Arthur. 
He was clearly delighted. Slowly, he picked at the wrapping paper, making something of a production of it, so much so that the kids started to drift over to watch. He peeled back a corner, revealing the spine of the book, the neat stitching, the nylon from an old, old backpack, the worn denim, the embroidered title on the spine. 
"You didn't," he said. 
"I certainly did," she said, "now finish unwrapping it so that we can have some cake." 
The young man blinked his eyes at the coruscating lights and struggled into a seated position, brushing off the powdery residue of his creation. "The Story So Far?" he said. 
"The Story So Far," a voice agreed with him from a very long way off and so close in, it was practically up his nose. 
She rolled her eyes. “Sibley County? Right. Look, you know I trust you, but you need to stay in at night for a while to reassure your parents.” 
“But I have stuff to do.” 
“Can’t you do it in the daytime?” 
“Not always.” 
She closed her eyes and pinched the top of her nose with two fingers as if she had a headache up there. “How about a compro- mise. If you’re going to be out, you have to let me know where you are and let me pick you up when you’re done. I know you value your independence, but we have to do something different or . . .” 
Or I’d get sent to a luxurious suburban prison and totally lose any chance I had to help my brother or take down a scumbag rapist. I didn’t have any choice. “Okay, I guess.” 
“Good. That might give me some bargaining power. I’m going to make some herb tea before I tackle the rest of this grading. Do you want some?” 
“You’ve been so busy with your . . .” She made air quotes. 
“Group project. Are things going all right?” 
I shrugged. Having the FBI turn down Nikko’s offer of help was a serious setback. I had no idea if my plan would work, espe- cially since it wouldn’t take long for Jason to wonder what hap- pened to his expensive prototype spy equipment and demand that I give it back. 
Valentine took off her too-small shoes and walked over the carpet in her dirty bare feet. It felt like something she barely remembered. Grass? 
The chocolate smelled wonderful. Wonderful was the word for it. It made her full of wonder. Rich. Something from another planet—from heaven, maybe. 
She lifted the mug and felt its warmth seep into her hands. She took a tentative sip and held it in her mouth. 
It was spicy! Was chocolate spicy? She didn’t think so! The rum made her tongue tingle and the heat made its fumes rise in her head, carrying up the chocolate taste and the peppers. Her eyes streamed. Her ears felt like they were full of chocolate. 
She swallowed and gasped and the wizard laughed. She looked at him. 
“Ana’s recipe. She adds the chilies. I think it’s lovely, don’t you? Aztec chocolate, we call it.” 
She took another mouthful, held it, swallowed. The chocolate was in her tummy too, and there was a feeling there, a greedy feeling, a more feeling. She drained the glass. Ana and the wizard both laughed. 
There was some nervous tittering. One of the others put his hand up. It was Charles. Ms Galvez called on him. 
"Putting cameras in makes us safe, which makes us less afraid." 
"Safe from what?" I said, without waiting to be called on. 
"Terrorism," Charles said. The others were nodding their heads. 
"How do they do that? If a suicide bomber rushed in here and blew us all up --" 
"Ms Galvez, Marcus is violating school policy. We're not supposed to make jokes about terrorist attacks --" 
"Who's making jokes?" 
"Thank you, both of you," Ms Galvez said. She looked really unhappy. I felt kind of bad for hijacking her class. "I think that this is a really interesting discussion, but I'd like to hold it over for a future class. I think that these issues may be too emotional for us to have a discussion about them today. Now, let's get back to the suffragists, shall we?" 
So we spent the rest of the hour talking about suffragists and the new lobbying strategies they'd devised for getting four women into every congresscritter's office to lean on him and let him know what it would mean for his political future if he kept on denying women the vote. It was normally the kind of thing I really liked -- little guys making the big and powerful be honest. But today I couldn't concentrate. It must have been Darryl's absence. We both liked Social Studies and we would have had our SchoolBooks out and an IM session up seconds after sitting down, a back-channel for talking about the lesson. 
“I charge double for new clients,” Checker said cheerfully. “Discounts for beautiful women and anyone who can quote the original Doctor Who. I can see you aren’t going for the former, but if you offer me a jelly baby I’ll take off ten percent.” 
“Hey,” said Tresting. “Behave. Ain’t nobody ever teach you not to insult a woman’s looks?” 
“I’m not insulting her looks, only her deportment,” said Checker. “So I like good scenery. At least I’m willing to offer financial incentives for it.” He winked at me. “Want to come back in something slinky and ask again?” 
“Are you fucking kidding me?” I sputtered. “You know we’re on the clock here, right?” We didn’t have time for clowning around, but more than that, it was...off-putting. Besides, it was objective fact that my looks fell on the lacking side of any aesthetic scale. Symmetry and proportions—who cared? 
Checker pulled a face that made him look about five years old. “I don’t know if I like her, Arthur.” 
“Cut her some slack,” said Tresting. “We all had a rough night.” He cleared his throat, then said carefully, “She might have some more pieces of the puzzle, too.” 
I raced back outside, my foot hitting a windowsill to gain the roof in one bound. Rio was already crouched on the shingles beside a collection of armaments, peering through a scope to scan the valley. 
“We’re not alone,” he said. 
At first I thought he meant they had found us—I scanned the landscape, the empty desert snapping into a sharp relief of mathematical interactions—before I realized Rio wasn’t reacting as if to an offensive. “What do you mean?” 
He lowered the scope and handed it to me, pointing toward the south. “Pithica didn’t locate us. This attack is widespread.” 
It took me a minute, but I found the gas station and small cluster of buildings just visible in the direction Rio had indicated, tiny even through the scope. People were standing around outside, milling in a way that was not quite normal, some talking, some gesticulating broadly at each other. The twilight was deep enough that some lights should have been on, but everything was dark. 
“What the hell?” I said. “A power outage?” 
Seesaw Simpson was not in the syndicate. Clara Belle was rather a successful agent, but Susan, who could only say "thoap," never made large returns, and the twins, who were somewhat young to be thoroughly trustworthy, could be given only a half dozen cakes at a time, and were obliged to carry with them on their business trips a brief document stating the price per cake, dozen, and box. Rebecca and Emma Jane offered to go two or three miles in some one direction and see what they could do in the way of stirring up a popular demand for the Snow-White and Rose-Red brands, the former being devoted to laundry purposes and the latter being intended for the toilet. 
There was a great amount of hilarity in the preparation for this event, and a long council in Emma Jane's attic. They had the soap company's circular from which to arrange a proper speech, and they had, what was still better, the remembrance of a certain patent-medicine vender's discourse at the Milltown Fair. His method, when once observed, could never be forgotten; nor his manner, nor his vocabulary. Emma Jane practiced it on Rebecca, and Rebecca on Emma Jane. 
"I tried, believe me. But I'm afraid she was far past lis­tening to me. By then she was learning the Kekchi Maya dialect, becoming totally immersed in their world. She began having episodes of complete non-rationality, and then one day she told the women in her compound she was going over to Palenque, the Maya ruins in Mexico. It's where the classical Maya held their last kingship ceremony. Before anyone re­alized she was serious, she stole one of their cayucos , their mahogany dugout canoes, and headed down the Rio Tigre." His eyes had turned completely dark, the way he used to blank them out. "She just went missing. Everyone here was devastated. We all loved her." 
I stood there weighing his story. It didn't ring true. I sup­posed she was capable of something that crazy, but would she have actually done it? I didn't think so. 
Then I remembered something else he'd said. 
"You said you proposed an 'agreement.' What was that about?" 
He stared at me. "It's nothing that need concern us. Suf­fice to say I kept my part. Anyway, it's over and past now." 
How many of his comrades had died on the day the death rained from the sky? Surely they had died in great number on that day. 
The woods were full of her dead. Mata was there. And there was the movie tonight. She touched the medal on her lapel. He had no medal. The soldiers who’d persecuted the siege received no medals. 
“You’re here until when?” 
“Tomorrow,” he said, “first thing.” 
“First thing tomorrow. Come and see a movie tonight,” she said. 
He looked at her and cocked his head. She wasn’t beautiful, she knew, but sometimes men looked at her that way. Something about what she’d done, they could see it. 
“I’d like that very much,” he said. 
She played back a little audio as they walked together, for a terrible silence descended on them as they walked, awkward and oppressive. 
Would you have turned us in if we didn’t help you? 
No one would have believed me anyway. 
“Valentine?” 
“Yes, Withnail?” 
“Thank you,” he said. “For the food. And the kiss. It was my very first.” 
“Mine too.” 
"That doesn't sound helpful," Becker grumbles. 
"Then I started sorting the images by our short list of suspects, to see if we could account for their activities during the hours in question." 
Becker makes a face. "Our short list of suspects being Frederick Whiston." 
"Exactly. It took some time to isolate the key structure by which the drones had tagged his pheromone signature, mostly because I didn't feel comfortable wandering up to him and asking for a sample, you understand. I had to employ roundabout methods to get a rat in the vicinity of the Whiston suite in full analysis mode, then dig through the chunks of information until I achieved a reasonable match. I tested that out until I felt like I'd established a legitimate chain of evidence that could be plugged back into the data repository to search for hits." 
"And that's meant as an explanation for why you've spent so much time recently in the presence of Miss  Whiston rather than slaving away over the circuit boards. You were just gathering evidence." 
“I got lost,” said Lexy. “Where is this, anyhow?” 
“Wyngate station,” said he. “I’ll be gosh-darned! I never! Lost?” 
“Yes,” said Lexy. “Aren’t you the driver who took me up the day I came here?” 
“That’s me—only taxi in Wyngate. Took you out to the Queltons’, too. Hop in, miss!” 
His engine had stalled, and he set to work to crank it, while Lexy stood beside him. 
“Drive awfully fast, will you?” she asked. 
He was too busy to answer for a moment. Then, when his engine was running again, he straightened up and looked at her. 
“No, ma’am!” he said firmly. “No more of that for me! Not after what happened a while ago. No, ma’am! I had my lesson!” 
“An accident?” inquired Lexy politely. 
“Well,” he said slowly, “I s’pose it was; but the more I think it over, the more I dunno!” 
In the brightness cast by the headlights, Lexy could see his face very well, and the look on it gave her a strange little thrill of fear. It was not a handsome or intelligent face, but it was a very honest one, and she saw, written plain upon it, a very honest doubt and dismay. Like herself, he wasn’t sure. 
“God be with you,” said Rio, and hung up. 
I should’ve known, I thought. Undercover wasn’t Rio’s style. His MO was to go in, hurt the people who needed hurting, and get out. If taking down the gang had been his only objective, a nice explosion would have lit up the California desert weeks ago and left nothing but a crater and the bodies of several eviscerated drug dealers. That was Rio’s style. And why had he referred Dawna to me to get Courtney out in the first place? Why not do it himself? He was more than capable; in fact, I was sure he could have done it without even blowing his cover. 
Unless things were way more complicated than I had realized, and this wasn’t a simple drug ring. 
“Who were you calling?” asked Courtney, getting out of the car and squinting at me in the glare of the Southern California sun. 
“A friend,” I said. Well, sort of. “Someone I trust.” That part was true. 
“Someone who can help us?” 
“Maybe.” Rio was clearly working his own angle, and didn’t want help—even from me. Which hurt a little, if I wanted to be honest with myself. I’m good at what I do. Rio didn’t mean to hurt me, of course; he didn’t care about my feelings one way or another. He didn’t care about anyone’s feelings. I wondered what it said about me that he was the closest thing I did have to a friend. 
“He’s in luck. Law schools have been pumping them out like crazy. He won’t have any trouble finding one. Just lift a rock.” Her voice didn’t sound as old and frail as she looked. It was sharp and snobby. 
“No, I mean he needs you.” 
“Don’t be silly. Nobody needs me.” 
“Asif Ranjha and Xavier Jackson needed you.” 
“Charming. You’ve done your homework.” 
“It’s all online.” 
“I’m sure that’s where you do all of your homework. Much eas- ier than actual research, I’m told. Well, it was a waste of your time. 
I’m retired.” She started to close the door. It got stuck on the piles of mail. 
“The FBI picked Wilson up this morning,” I said, fast and loud. “Along with a bunch of other people, one of whom is proba- bly an FBI informant. They’re accused of being terrorists, but they aren’t.” 
She rolled her eyes. I guess she thought that’s what happens to stupid people. I was getting fed up with her attitude. 
“I think the informant set them up. That’s what they do. They find people naive enough to talk about how wrong everything is and then they say, ‘yeah, we should do something about it,’ so they all say ‘yeah, totally,’ and then the guy says ‘hey, I know some- one who could get us some explosives, what do you think?’ and pretty soon they’re in jail and it would never have happened with- out some FBI guy talking them into it.” 
But she knew her stuff and kicked ass on fourth amendment legal arguments and sometimes took on cases that really grabbed her. 
Call Me Cheese posted a list of cases she’d won and added: <callmecheese> If your friend's a terrorist, 
you may be in luck! 
I sent a wish up toward the ceiling, out into the universe, ask- ing whoever it was who might be listening to do me a favor, just this once. Then I set...  
J.D. 
S he didn’t have an office anymore, she didn’t have a webpage with a “contact me” button, and forget about social media. 
Turned out there were exactly two ways to reach her. Option One: send a letter, a real letter with a stamp and everything. 
Option Two: go to her house and knock on the door. 
I didn’t have time for the real-letter-with-a-stamp approach. 
Also, I didn’t have her address. That was the problem with Option Two: I didn’t know where her door was to knock on it. She did a really good job of keeping her address secret. 
This was a good sign. She knew how to protect her privacy, 
"Fuel-cell?" 
He snorted. "No one wants to drive a truck anymore. Sub-micro solar. Fast little things." He...  retail, that's just you, here. So if you could scale up, why don't you?" 
"Why should I? I'm making incredible money now. I could stand to double my operation, but for that I'd need, what, 60 grand? What's the smallest angel round you do at your franchise?" 
"We're very nimble." 
"How nimble?" 
He mumbled something. 
"Speak up!" 
"Three hundred kay," he said, blushing. "But it doesn't have to be all to you. We could roll your round up with five or six similar firms --" 
"And increase my communications and bureaucracy overhead by 3,000 percent. Yeah, that sounds swell. I net enough after expenses that I could double every quarter if I wanted to. But I'm growing organically, cherry-picking my best contractors and getting them on the payroll, expanding poco a poco. I'm sixty years old, Mr Gonzales, and I don't need to grow like a tumor anymore."...  flopped. 
"You say you're nimble. But from where I sit, you're not nimble enough. You're starting off in the 300 grand range, and you're probably averaging a million in your angel round, ten or twenty for Series A, seventy for Series B. I can turn 60 grand into 600 in six months. That's pretty good for me, as an individual. But I can't turn your million into ten million -- not in six years. What does your franchise have under management?" 
The big plan was to launch our own ARG in September, just in time for the election, and to really tie it in with signing up voters and getting them to the polls. Only 42 percent of Americans showed up at the polls for the last election -- nonvoters had a huge majority. I kept trying to get Darryl and Van to one of our planning sessions, but they kept on declining. They were spending a lot of time together, and Van insisted that it was totally nonromantic. Darryl wouldn't talk to me much at all, though he sent me long emails about just about everything that wasn't about Van or terrorism or prison. 
Ange squeezed my hand. "God, I hate that woman," she said. 
I nodded. "Just one more rotten thing this...  they sent her to my town, I'd probably become a terrorist." 
"You did become a terrorist when they sent her to your town." 
"So I did," I said. 
"Are you going to Ms Galvez's hearing on Monday?" 
"Totally." I'd introduced Ange to Ms Galvez a couple weeks before, when my old teacher invited me over for dinner. The teacher's union had gotten a hearing for her before the board of the Unified School District to argue for getting her old job back. They said that Fred Benson was coming out of (early) retirement to testify against her. I was looking forward to seeing her again. 
She had a very odd feeling that this story was somehow of great importance to her, but that she must put it away, that she must keep it in her mind until later. This wasn’t the time to think about it. 
“Joe,” she said, “I want to hear more about this—all about it; but not now. I’m too tired.” 
He gave himself a shake, like a dog. Then he turned to her with a slow, good-natured smile. 
“I guess you are!” he said. “Lucky for you I just happened to be late to-night, taking them Ainsly girls ’way out to their house after a dance. Hop in, miss!” 
Lexy got in, and they set off. She leaned back and closed her eyes, but they flew open again as if of their own accord. There was something she wanted to see. Through the glass she could see Joe’s burly shoulders, a little hunched—Joe, who, like herself, wasn’t sure. 
“Not now!” said something inside her. “Don’t think about that now. Try not to think at all. Wait! Something is going to happen.” 
At the corner of the road leading to Mrs. Royce’s, she tapped on the window. Joe stopped the cab with a jerk, sprang down from his seat, and ran around to open the door. 
“Oh, certainly!” answered the bewildered Miss Craigie. “Whatever you think best, Mrs. Enderby, I’m sure.” 
“Go!” said Mrs. Enderby. 
The lady’s tone aroused in Lexy a great desire not to go. Of course, now that she had gone so far, it would be childish to refuse to continue; but she meant to take her time. She stood there by the window, slowly drawing off her gloves, her back turned to the room. Suddenly Mrs. Enderby caught her by the shoulder and turned her around. 
“Go!” she said again. “Take off those things of my child’s. Have you no heart?” 
There was such a note of anguish in her voice that Lexy no longer delayed. She followed Miss Craigie up the stairs to a neat, prim little bedroom, where the trunk stood, already unlocked. 
“If you want anything—” suggested Miss Craigie, in her gentle and apologetic way. 
“No, thank you,” replied Lexy. 
Miss Craigie went out, closing the door softly behind her. Lexy took off Caroline’s hat and coat and laid them on the bed. 
“I wonder if I’ll ever see her wearing them again!” she thought. 
When Rebecca had heard her sentence and gone to the north chamber she began to think. If there was anything she did not wish to grow into, it was an idiot of any sort, particularly a driveling one; and she resolved to punish herself every time she incurred what she considered to be the righteous displeasure of her virtuous relative. She didn't mind staying away from Alice Robinson's. She had told Emma Jane it would be like a picnic in a graveyard, the Robinson house being as near an approach to a tomb as a house can manage to be. Children were commonly brought in at the back door, and requested to stand on newspapers while making their call, so that Alice was begged by her friends to "receive" in the shed or barn whenever possible. Mrs. Robinson was not only "turrible neat," but "turrible close," so that the refreshments were likely to be peppermint lozenges and glasses of well water. 
After considering the relative values, as penances, of a piece of haircloth worn next the skin, and a pebble in the shoe, she dismissed them both. The haircloth could not be found, and the pebble would attract the notice of the Argus-eyed aunt, besides being a foolish bar to the activity of a person who had to do housework and walk a mile and a half to school. 
“We’ll gut it out a few more hours and then head out. Things should be getting back to normal soon. The fire department will fix it. They’ll mobilize the Army. It’ll be OK.” 
Then the doors opened. 
The two sysadmins who entered were wild-eyed. One had a tee that said TALK NERDY TO ME and the other one was wearing an Electronic Frontiers Canada shirt. 
“Come on,” TALK NERDY said. “We’re all getting together on the top floor. Take the stairs.” 
Felix found he was holding his breath. 
“If there’s a bioagent in the building, we’re all infected,” TALK NERDY said. “Just go, we’ll meet you there.” 
“There’s one on the sixth floor,” Felix said, as he climbed to his feet. 
“Will, yeah, we got him. He’s up there.” 
TALK NERDY was one of the Bastard Operators From Hell who’d unplugged the big routers. Felix and Van climbed the stairs slowly, their steps echoing in the deserted shaft. After the frigid air of the cage, the stairwell felt like a sauna. 
There was a cafeteria on the top floor, with working...  machine food. There was an uneasy queue of sysadmins before each. No one met anyone’s eye. Felix wondered which one was Will and then he joined the vending machine queue. 
I hung up, dragged my sleeve across my tongue—it didn’t help—and slammed out of the apartment. 
Dr. Zhang lived in a very nice two-story colonial in suburbia—or, well, Burbank, which was as close as LA got to suburbia. Well-groomed rose bushes lined the walk, and a few kids’ toys were scattered on the lawn. The place even had a freaking white picket fence. 
I skidded askew against the curb and raced up to pound on his door. When nobody answered, I kicked it in. 
The back door was just closing as I burst into the kitchen. Zhang stood next to the table, the same dotty look of absent-minded professor about him he had always had, his sweater vest and bow tie slightly askew. 
“What did you do!” I demanded. 
“This is too important,” he said. “The world has to know.” 
I dashed to the back door and pulled it open. The acrid scents of smoke and lighter fluid hit my nostrils immediately. 
“What!” Zhang sprang to life and pushed past me out into the backyard, where flames were whooshing up from a small fire on the patio. The wind whipped the heat against our faces. An empty silver briefcase was open next to the fire, the lining already charring. 
I slid the knife out of my boot and left it with the firearms. 
Dawna lowered her hands. “That’s better,” she declared, and I felt a sharp pang of frustration. Rio had warned me, but something in me had hoped his stark description an exaggeration. 
“Yes, I do,” Dawna said briskly. “Now, we do know you can be...an effective person, even unarmed. Please believe Mr. Tresting will continue to be a hostage to your good behavior.” She raised her voice slightly. “Take her, please.” 
More shadows glided out of the surrounding rooms, black-clad bodies punctuated with the distinctive hard angles of the well-armed. If I had been here alone, I might have looked for a way out, even with Dawna reading me—might have tried to get away even if the mathematical expectation read death. But if I made a move... goddamn Arthur. I shut my mind away from calculating escape routes and let gloved hands pull my wrists behind me; the plastic bite of a ziptie cut into my skin. 
This was why I should never care about another person’s welfare, I thought. 
Rebecca's own black locks were commonly pushed smoothly off her forehead, but on this occasion she formed what I must perforce call by its only name, a spit-curl, directly in the centre of her brow, an ornament which she was allowed to wear a very short time, only in fact till Hannah was able to call her mother's attention to it, when she was sent into the next room to remove it and to come back looking like a Christian. This command she interpreted somewhat too literally perhaps, because she contrived in a space of two minutes an extremely pious style of hairdressing, fully as effective if not as startling as the first. These antics were solely the result of nervous irritation, a mood born of Miss Miranda Sawyer's stiff, grim, and martial attitude. The remembrance of Rebecca was so vivid that their sister Aurelia's letter was something of a shock to the quiet, elderly spinsters of the brick house; for it said that Hannah could not possibly be spared for a few years yet, but that Rebecca would come as soon as she could be made ready; that the offer was most thankfully appreciated, and that the regular schooling and church privileges, as well as the influence of the Sawyer home, would doubtless be "the making of Rebecca." 
"Marcus --" Barbara said, but I cut her off. 
"It's fine. It's fine. I'm going to do a video about this. Get it out over the weekend. Mondays are big days for viral video. Everyone'll be coming back from the holiday weekend, looking for something funny to forward around school or the office." 
I saw a shrink twice a week as part of my deal at the halfway house. Once I'd gotten over seeing that as some kind of punishment, it had been good. He'd helped me focus on doing constructive things when I was upset, instead of letting it eat me up. The videos helped. 
"I have to go," I said, swallowing hard to keep the emotion out of my voice. 
"Take care of yourself, Marcus," Barbara said. 
Ange hugged me from behind as I hung up the phone. "I just read about it online," she said. She read a million newsfeeds, pulling them with a headline reader that sucked up stories as fast as they ended up on the wire. She was our official blogger, and she was good at it, snipping out the interesting stories and throwing them online like a short order cook turning around breakfast orders. 
It took him a minute to get it. Then he said, “Oh.” 
I signaled to the bartender again. “Don’t give me that look like I kicked your puppy. See, I knew you would react this way.” 
“Want to talk about it?” said Arthur. 
That wasn’t what I had expected him to say. “No. No, I don’t. The thing is, I realized—I don’t care. I really don’t care. I don’t feel bad about it. I don’t feel any different. And it’s so much easier.” 
“Okay,” said Arthur. 
“‘Okay?’ I go back to killing people willy-nilly again and that’s all you have to say to me?” 
The bartender put down our next two shots so hastily they sloshed over his wrists before he retreated into the back and out of sight. 
Arthur made a shushing gesture and peered around the near-empty dive to see if I’d freaked out anyone else. “Ain’t saying I’m happy about it, but...well, I ain’t believe the ‘willy-nilly,’ first off. Thing is, Russell, you might say you don’t care, but I know for a fact you ain’t no killer. Don’t like you taking no hard line again, but I still got faith you only charging the guilty.” 
I jolted up from my chair and started pacing around the room. If the Lancer got his hands on Martinez...Christ, there was no telling what he’d do to her to get the proof. The lengths she’d already gone to in order to hide it meant she wasn’t going to give it up easily, and maybe she’d be able to pretend to give him information for a while, but the Lancer knew enough mathematics to see through that. She wouldn’t be able to keep up the charade for long. 
Calm down. Think. What would the Lancer’s play be? 
If Checker’s search of Eastern Europe was anywhere close to correct, the Lancer had been continents away yesterday. It would have taken him time to figure out who I was going after. It would have taken time for him to get here. He might even still be on the way. 
It would take him time to locate Martinez. Even if he’d caught a glimpse of her somewhere already—an airline terminal, an ATM camera—she was on the move. He didn’t gain much by going after wherever she’d been, not when he knew where she was going. 
She twisted back from him, fury clouding her features. “Let go of me! This is my decision. Mine, not yours, and not anybody else’s! How dare you imply someone talked me into it?” 
“’Cause nothing else makes sense!” cried Tresting. “Doc, you’ve been in my office almost every day for the past six months bullying me about this case! You moved across the country; you got Ned a bodyguard, for God’s sake—and now you say you’re giving up?” 
“That’s exactly why I have to! This—this obsession, it’s destroyed my life. I have to let go of it!” 
“But we have a lead now,” I argued, gesturing at Finch. “This guy knows something. I saw him at Courtney Polk’s house. Don’t you want to know—” 
“No!” 
The absolute denial rang through the room, unqualified and final. 
Something echoed in my memory. 
Kingsley took a breath, resettling her composure. “I’m done. Please, just leave.” 
“Holy shit,” I said. 
“What is it?” asked Tresting. 
I ignored him and turned to Finch. “Okay, how’s this? If you don’t tell us what’s going on, I will bring you somewhere and tie you up and call someone who can make your worst nightmares come true.” I met his eyes squarely, never mind that something inside me was starting to feel creeped out and terrified, and my headache had returned with a pounding thunder. “And then I think you’ll spill everything.” 
The fever made her shake hard now. Her head swam and the world pitched and yawed like a ship in heavy seas. 
She stood up and took a step. It was a funky disco-dancer step. Her next step was, too. Then she was walking normally again. 
She reached down into her shirt, between her breasts—she had a bra on again, fresh from the wizard’s printer—and withdrew the inhaler he’d given her. She’d be dead in a week. 
She put the inhaler to her lips and drew in a deep breath while squeezing it, and then the fever was gone. The horror was gone. The fear and cold were gone. What was left behind was a hard, frenetic grin, something that sharpened her every sense and set her feet alight like the most infectious of dance music. 
She ran now, flying through the trenches. The closer she got to the front the worse it smelled, but that was OK, bad smells were fine by her. Body parts—the fingertip had just been a preview, here you could find jawbones and tongues, hands and feet, curled-in cocks and viscera that glistened through its dust-crust—not a problem. 
Uncle Jerry had never before said so many words at a time, but he had caught sight of the child's red eyes and tear-stained cheeks, and his big heart went out to her in her trouble, quite regardless of any circumstances that might have caused it. 
Rebecca stood still for a moment until uncle Jerry took his seat again at the table, and then, unable to contain herself longer, cried, "Oh, Mr. Cobb, I've run away from the brick house, and I want to go back to the farm. Will you keep me to-night and take me up to Maplewood in the stage? I haven't got any money for my fare, but I'll earn it somehow afterwards." 
"Well, I guess we won't quarrel 'bout money, you and me," said the old man; "and we've never had our ride together, anyway, though we allers meant to go down river, not up." 
"I shall never see Milltown now!" sobbed Rebecca. 
"Come over here side o' me an' tell me all about it," coaxed uncle Jerry. "Jest set down on that there wooden cricket an' out with the whole story." 
Rebecca leaned her aching head against Mr. Cobb's homespun knee and recounted the history of her trouble. Tragic as that history seemed to her passionate and undisciplined mind, she told it truthfully and without exaggeration. 
Rebecca drew her chin down and looked at the row of smoked pearl buttons running up and down the middle of her flat little chest. 
"Hind side foremost? Oh, I see! No, that's all right. If you have seven children you can't keep buttonin' and unbuttonin' 'em all the time—they have to do themselves. We're always buttoned up in front at our house. Mira's only three, but she's buttoned up in front, too." 
Miranda said nothing as she closed the door, but her looks were at once equivalent to and more eloquent than words. 
Rebecca stood perfectly still in the centre of the floor and looked about her. There was a square of oilcloth in front of each article of furniture and a drawn-in rug beside the single four poster, which was covered with a fringed white dimity counterpane. 
Everything was as neat as wax, but the ceilings were much higher than Rebecca was accustomed to. It was a north room, and the window, which was long and narrow, looked out on the back buildings and the barn. 
It was not the room, which was far more comfortable than Rebecca's own at the farm, nor the lack of view, nor yet the long journey, for she was not conscious of weariness; it was not the fear of a strange place, for she loved new places and courted new sensations; it was because of some curious blending of uncomprehended emotions that Rebecca stood her sunshade in the corner, tore off her best hat, flung it on the bureau with the porcupine quills on the under side, and stripping down the dimity spread, precipitated herself into the middle of the bed and pulled the counterpane over her head. 
› Money, Sarge? 
Ever since she’d risen to platoon leader, she’d been getting more missions, but they paid gold —money wasn’t really something you talked about in-game. 
The Sarge—sensible boobs, gigantic sword, longbow, gloriously orcish ugly phiz—moved her avatar impatiently. 
› Something wrong with my typing, Anda? 
› No, Sarge, 
she typed. 
› You mean gold? 
› If I meant gold, I would have said gold. Can you go voice? 
Anda looked around. Her door was shut and she could hear her parents in the sitting-room watching something loud on telly. She turned up her music just to be safe and then slipped on her headset. They said it could noise-cancel a Blackhawk helicopter—it had better be able to overcome the little inductive speakers suction-cupped to the underside of her desk. She switched to voice. 
“Hey, Lucy,” she said. 
“Call me Sarge!” Lucy’s accent was American, like an old TV show, and she lived somewhere in the middle of the country where it was all vowels, Iowa or Ohio. She was Anda’s best friend in-game but she was so hardcore it was boring sometimes. 
"Yeah, well, the way you look you coulda fooled me." He headed down the street, toward the avenue. Then he called back over his shoulder. "I don't want to see you in tomorrow unless you look like you might live through the day. I pay for your health insurance. Use it, for God's sake." 
After I found a cab, I began to think he might be right. This was no typical down day. So I decided I'd stop at the Duane Reade on my corner and talk to the pharmacist. 
The second-shift man was on, a gray-haired portly old guy who knew more about drugs than most doctors. The tag on his jacket said "Bernd" and that's all anybody ever knew of his name. I sometimes called him "Dr. Bernd" by way of banter, but nothing I could do would ever make him smile. 
The place was nearly empty and the pharmacy at the rear, with its spectral fluorescent lighting, looked like an out-take from a low-budget Wes Craven movie. Bernd, who was in back puttering, came out and looked me over. 
I know it sounds naive, but I trusted him more than I trust half the young, overworked interns you get at an emergency room these days. I poured out my symptoms, including the story about how I'd been given fertility drugs and toad venom. Was it all coming back to haunt me, the dark hand of Alex Goddard? 
When supper was cleared away Rebecca insisted on washing and wiping the dishes, while Mrs. Cobb worked on the dress with an energy that plainly showed the gravity of the task. Rebecca kept leaving her post at the sink to bend anxiously over the basin and watch her progress, while uncle Jerry offered advice from time to time. 
"You must 'a' laid all over the breedge, deary," said Mrs. Cobb; "for the paint 's not only on your elbows and yoke and waist, but it about covers your front breadth." 
As the garment began to look a little better Rebecca's spirits took an upward turn, and at length she left it to dry in the fresh air, and went into the sitting-room. 
"Have you a piece of paper, please?" asked Rebecca. "I'll copy out the poetry I was making while I was lying in the paint." 
Mrs. Cobb sat by her mending basket, and uncle Jerry took down a gingham bag of strings and occupied himself in taking the snarls out of them,—a favorite evening amusement with him. 
Rebecca soon had the lines copied in her round school-girl hand, making such improvements as occurred to her on sober second thought. 
How could you have a back-and-forth with a message like that? 
He looked up Ninth/First in the metric-analog map converter: KEY WEST, FL. 
So, there you had it. A switch made in Papua New-Guinea (which persisted in conjuring up old Oceanic war photos of bone-in-nose types from his boyhood, though now that they’d been at war with Eurasia for so long, it was hard to even find someone who didn’t think that the war had always been with Eurasia, that Oceania hadn’t always been UNATS’s ally), forwarding calls to a computer that was so far south, it was practically in the middle of the Caribbean, hardly a stone’s throw from the CAFTA region, which was well-known to harbor Eurasian saboteur and terrorist elements. 
The car shuddered as it wove in and out of the lanes on the Don Valley Parkway, barreling for the Gardiner Express Way, using his copper’s override to make the thick, slow traffic part ahead of him. He wasn’t supposed to do this, but as between a minor infraction and pissing off the man from Social Harmony, he knew which one he’d pick. 
Hi Mom! 
I am real sorry to hear about Buddy. I know he must feel sad. I didn't think that Carla was a spy, either, but now that she's been arrested, I guess that Buddy should feel lucky that he didn't stay married to her long enough to have little spy babies! 
This is my third week as Special Vice President. I'm doing well for myself! Crazy Tony is now my assistant! He sits at a smaller desk in my office with me and Rhindquist, and Rhindquist asks him the same crazy questions he asks me, but Tony's answers are always weird. He has been in management stream since the second grade, and he has read all kinds of TV that I've never even heard of. Rhindquist doesn't know about it, either. He says that Tony is paranoid, which means that he thinks everyone is out to get him. Tony said that even paranoids have enemies, and Rhindquist laughed so much, I thought he would bust. 
Some days, Rhindquist is very sad, and on those days, we just watch movies. I've seen My Fair Lady, Pygmalion, Trading Places, The Prince and the Pauper, and a whole bunch more. They are all about poor people like you and me who become rich and powerful like Rhindquist. Mom, I think it means that Rhindquist wants me to be in charge! I haven't said anything, but I am trying to get ready. I am learning Word Power at night with the TV in my apt. I am not using it yet, because I want to make sure I am very good at it before I do. 
Automatically, MacDiarmid said, "One," as he had at every count since he'd signed on and gotten the first investor's chair. 
He turned to the Series A man expectantly. "Fuck that," he said, in an uncharacteristic burst of blue talk. "Drive, goddamit! Now!" 
Lee-Daniel pointed at him and said, "Two," then pointed at the Series B man and said, "Three." He pointed at the middle-managers behind him and they began to count off methodically. 
The Series A man turned around and shouted, "Shut the fuck up or I'll throw your ass out of the fucking bus. Drive ! " 
Lee-Daniel looked at Mac. "Better drive, LD," he said. 
They were already 20 miles off from the Rez when Elaine told him that Stinky and the kid never got on the bus. 
Three more raiders looted equipment off the bus. Lee-Daniel played a little game with himself, betting on which one would be the next to turn raccoon. He was two for three within twenty minutes. 
"Stop them!" the Series A man said. 
"Why?" Lee-Daniel said. 
"They'll ruin us!" the Series B man said. 
As they picked their way through the ruined chunks of the dead player-character snipers, Anda still on the lookout, she broke the silence over their voicelink. 
“Hey, Lucy?” 
“Anda, if you’re not going to call me Sarge, at least don’t call me ‘Hey, Lucy!’ My dad loved that old TV show and he makes that joke every visitation day.” 
“Sorry, Sarge. Sarge?” 
“Yes, Anda?” 
“I just can’t understand why anyone would pay us cash for these missions.” 
“You complaining?” 
“No, but—” 
“Anyone asking you to cyber some old pervert?” 
“No!” 
“OK then. I don’t know either. But the money’s good. I don’t care. Hell, probably it’s two rich gamers who pay their butlers to craft for them all day. One’s fucking with the other one and paying us.” 
“You really think that?” 
Lucy sighed a put-upon, sophisticated, American sigh. “Look at it this way. Most of the world is living on like a dollar a day. I spend five dollars every day on a frappuccino. Some days, I get two! Dad sends mom three thousand a month in child-support—that’s a hundred bucks a day. So if a day’s money here is a hundred...  my frappuccino is worth like five hundred dollars . And I buy two or three every day. 
“Nothing, little grasshopper.” Jason punched his shoulder. 
“Ow. It’s just you’re not, you know, all serenity and shit. No offense.” 
“Don’t pay attention to him,” Ian said. “He was raised by wolves.” 
“What is this place, anyway?” I asked. “Is it safe to meet here?” 
“I happen to know a guy who recently bought it,” said Jason (who I’d always known as Gargle). “He plans to convert it into a community makerspace. He didn’t mind us borrowing it for an evening of trouble-making.” He tugged at the nearest piece of tent fabric. “This stuff? It blocks radio waves and cell signals. Portable security for sensitive communications. We’re demoing it at the security conference.” 
“Cool. So basically we’re in a big Faraday cage?” 
“Exactly.” 
It made me feel weirdly proud. I knew about Faraday cages because I made my backpack into one using layers of duct tape and foil. It’s a good way to avoid electromagnetic pulses frying your electronics. Better yet, it keeps cell phone signals blocked when you need to avoid being monitored. 
Huh. That wasn’t a bad way of looking at it. “But you could argue that Dawna’s using her free will,” I pointed out. “Even if it’s to take away other people’s.” 
“And like all those who use their freedom to harm others, she sins in doing so.” 
“Oh.” I mulled that over. Because Rio was the only religious person I knew, I tended to forget that mass murder wasn’t supposed to be in the playbook. Except...Dawna was doing the exact same thing Rio did: hurting people to make the world a better place. “But what about what you do? I thought—your God...” 
“Cas, I am a condemned man in the eyes of the Lord,” he said. “I have sinned far too gravely.” 
Shock rippled through me. Rio believed in God and also believed that he was going to go straight to hell? “But you...” Words failed me. 
“Do not think me such a tragic figure, Cas. I am too weak to my baser desires. The least I can do is use them to do God’s work.” 
I was stunned. Not that I believed in heaven or hell myself, but the fact that Rio did and still thought no matter how faithful he was, the former was closed to him—I couldn’t imagine living that way. 
“Math.” 
Halliday blinked at me, then said with a perfectly straight face, “As am I. I do not believe that’s given me a solution for escaping through solid walls.” 
“I’ll figure something out,” I said. I leaned on the table and pushed myself up, ignoring the fact that I had to lean on it hard, or that I needed a moment to get my balance. 
The pages covering the table were filled with dense mathematical writing, in what I could only assume to be Halliday’s precise hand. I covered for my lack of equilibrium by frowning at them. The printed papers stacked to the side weren’t Halliday’s work, from what I could see—just background references. And the longhand sheets... 
“These are the notes you had stolen?” The bits of the algorithm matched up only raggedly, the connections between the insights missing. “Sorry, Professor, but this doesn’t exactly look complete.” 
“I know.” Frustration bled into her voice. “I can’t—this was decades of work. I can’t recreate every—” She took a deep, shuddering breath. 
› I’m a Fahrenheit!!!!!!!!!! 
she typed back. 
The brigands on the road were punters, but the cottage that was their target was guarded by an altogether more sophisticated sort. They were spotted by sentries long before they got within sight of the cottage, and they saw the warning spell travel up from the sentries’ hilltop like a puff of smoke, speeding away toward the cottage. Anda raced up the hill while Lucy covered her with her bow, but that didn’t stop the sentries from subjecting Anda to a hail of flaming spears from their fortified position. Anda set up her standard dodge-and-weave pattern, assuming that the sentries were non-player characters—who wanted to pay to sit around in gamespace watching a boring road all day?—and to her surprise, the spears followed her. She took one in the chest and only some fast work with her shield and all her healing scrolls saved her. As it was, her constitution was knocked down by half and she had to retreat back down the hillside. 
“Get down,” Lucy said in her headset. “I’m gonna use the BFG.” 
un-officer-ish charm and gaiety. No one even makes a show of expecting him to salute, though he'll probably have to sign a whole raft of privacy and non-disclosure agreements hastily drawn up by JAG wonks and demanding both his life's blood and the naming rights of his first twelve children if he ever mutters a word of what he's observed here. 
This also should be disturbingly impressive, but Ray finds it merely disturbing. Any man who has seen what Ray has seen in the last hour shouldn't have the appetite. He watches Becker put away a forkful of dripping beef and flinches. He pours the beer and concentrates for several seconds exclusively on drinking and holding it down. 
Eventually, when he's confident that he isn't going to vomit, Ray says, "You realize that you've dramatically overestimated the complexity and skill base associated with what I do, right? I'm not a cop. " 
"Sure you are." Becker wipes his mouth with a pale linen napkin, and has the decency to cover his plate with it. "You're CIU." 
Greg felt a cold premonition that sank all the way to his balls. "Why?" Had he done something wrong? Was he going to jail? 
"It's Maya." The man turned him around, met his eyes with his bottomless basset-hound gaze. "It's Maya. Killed herself. In Guatemala. I'm sorry, Greg." 
Greg seemed to hurtle away from himself, to a place miles above, a Google Earth view of the Googleplex, looking down on himself and the rumpled man as a pair of dots, two pixels, tiny and insignificant. He willed himself to tear at his hair, to drop to his knees and weep. 
From a long way away, he heard himself say, "I don't need any time off. I'm OK." 
From a long way away, he heard the rumpled man insist. 
But one-pixel Greg wouldn't be turned aside. The argument persisted for a long time, and then the two pixels moved into Building 49 and the door swung shut behind them. 
It was unthinkable that the invisible ants that governed all human endeavor should catastrophically fail, but fail they did, catastrophically, on the occasion of Trish's eighth date with Damian. It took nineteen seconds for the cascade of errors to slow every car on the Interstate to a halt, to light up the dashboard with a grim xmas tree of errors, to still the stereo and freeze the tickers of information and context that they had come to think of as the crawling embodiment of the colony that routed all the traffic that made up their universe. 
“When my uncle was in business, would have been easy.” He reached for another beer and twisted the cap off. 
“Yeah, right. You’re all talk.” 
Danny scowled at him. “It’s not that easy, yo. You can’t just walk into Hardware Hank and ask for it. Stuff’s regulated.” 
“What if I could get it?” 
“Yeah, sure.” Danny drank deeply. 
“For real,” Simon said. “I have a connection.” 
“A connection, wow.” Danny laughed like it was the punch- line of a joke, but Simon didn’t join in. 
“Write down what you need. I’ll get it.” 
Danny looked at him, the smile fading. This time, he was the one being tested. 
That’s when I finally realized Danny wasn’t working for the FBI. Simon was. 
H e could have been recruited ages ago. The cops might have pulled Simon in on a drug charge, then realized that he was part of the same scene as local activists, old enough for the job, 
and easily jammed up because he paid his rent by selling weed to his friends. Given a choice between jail and helping them stage some security theatre, I knew which one Simon would choose. 
“I wish I could do something,” Checker said, the words low and weighted like it was what he wanted more than anything in the world right now. “I wish I could fix it for you.” 
“Me too,” I said. Emotions I didn’t want to have balled up inside me, stifling, strangling. 
Checker snaked one arm around me and leaned me into him. I stiffened for a moment and then let him. The sensation was odd, a warring mix of relief and strangeness, that someone would touch me like that who wasn’t trying to hurt me. I leaned into the strangeness, trying to let my mind blank out, to divorce myself from the desolation just for a moment. 
Some time later, a faint ding sounded from the kitchen. “I’ll be right back,” Checker murmured. He gave me a squeeze and kissed the top of my head before shifting back to his chair and heading into the kitchen. 
Wait. 
What? 
People didn’t make affectionate gestures toward me. I didn’t know how to parse one. Didn’t know what I was supposed to do in response. 
I sat and waited, trying to mull it over, but my brain stalled out against the swamp of depression and self-pity. I finished the cider instead of thinking; it was lukewarm now but still spicy-sweet, the whiskey strong and sharp. 
I brought them back to my bench. I noticed that there was something old and brown staining the sidewalk underneath it. Darryl's blood? It made my skin pucker up. We sat down. 
"I'm Marcus," I said, swallowing hard as I gave my real name to these two who already knew me as M1k3y. I was blowing my cover, but the Bay Guardian had already made the connection for me. 
"Nate," the small one said. "Liam," the bigger one said. "Dude, it is such an honor to meet you. You're like our all-time hero --" 
"Don't say that," I said. "Don't say that. You two are like a flashing advertisement that says, 'I am jamming, please put my ass in Gitmo-by-the-Bay. You couldn't be more obvious." 
Liam looked like he might cry. 
"Don't worry, you didn't get busted. I'll give you some tips, later." He brightened up again. What was becoming weirdly clear was that these two really did idolize M1k3y, and that they'd do anything I said. They were grinning like idiots. It made me uncomfortable, sick to my stomach. 
"Listen, I need to get on Xnet, now, without going home or anywhere near home. Do you two live near here?" 
“Does this phantom Pithica group have a motive? Or do they just go around convincing biker gangs and driftless twenty-three-year-olds to kill random people?” 
“Right now they’re protecting themselves, obviously,” Tresting said. “And I got no idea what they’re trying to do. All I know is there’s too much evidence, spread over the last dozen years or so. This is real.” 
“Yeah. Right.” 
“Like I said, sister. You don’t gotta believe me.” He ground the truck’s gears as we jounced around a curve. The pickup bitch-slapped him with a hard jolt in response. “Your turn.” 
I debated. Tresting’s summary was far too outlandish to be useful, but he did have one thing I didn’t: data, and a lot of it, though right now he was using it to wallpaper his fantasy with completely fallacious “patterns.” Humans, we like to see patterns. We see them all the time, even when they don’t exist. I wasn’t sure whether I was repeating what someone had told me once, or if it was an observation. 
I couldn’t work from Tresting’s fanciful conclusions; I needed the raw data. I tried to come up with an angle from which a minimal dialogue with a loony PI might endanger either my case or my client, and decided a few cautious words were safe enough. Besides, the underground had a gossip chain with the efficacy of the Internet. He could probably ask around about a brown-skinned, curly-haired, angry-looking chick who could kick his ass, and he would find out who I was soon enough. 
“Less than 20 centimeters above you.” 
Well of course he hadn’t see her. His forward-mounted eyes only looked forward. Craning his neck back, he could just get far enough back to see the tip of Kate’s fin. He gave it a hard tug and she looked down in alarm. 
She was trapped in a coral cage much like his own, a thicket of calcified arms. She twisted around so that her face was alongside of his. Frantically, she made the out-of-air sign, cutting the edge of her hand across her throat. The human-shell’s instincts took over and unclipped his emergency regulator and handed it up to her. She put it in her mouth, pressed the button to blow out the water in it, and sucked greedily. 
He shoved his gauge in front of her mask, showing her that he, too was in the red and she eased off. 
The coral’s noises were everywhere now. They made his head hurt. Physical pain was so stupid. He needed to be less distracted now that these loud, threatening noises were everywhere. But the pain made it hard for him to think. And the coral was closing in, too, catching him on his wetsuit. 
The bartender put down our next two shots so hastily they sloshed over his wrists before he retreated into the back and out of sight. 
Arthur made a shushing gesture and peered around the near-empty dive to see if I’d freaked out anyone else. “Ain’t saying I’m happy about it, but...well, I ain’t believe the ‘willy-nilly,’ first off. Thing is, Russell, you might say you don’t care, but I know for a fact you ain’t no killer. Don’t like you taking no hard line again, but I still got faith you only charging the guilty.” 
“And if I’m not?” 
He spun on his stool to lean back against the bar. “Well, that’s what I’m here for, ain’t it?” 
I tried to maintain a belligerent facade, but I’d never been good at bluffing. 
Arthur’s expression softened. “Don’t mean I ain’t going to keep trying to convince you, though.” 
A year, two months, three weeks, two days, seventeen hours, forty-three minutes, and seven seconds, give or take the amount of time it took someone’s brain to shut down after he bled out. “Yeah,” I said. 
"I'm scouting locations," I lied, feeling a chill go through me. "We're second unit for an action film, shooting some prep footage for the producers. Does the name Arnold Schwarzenegger mean anything to you?" 
"Then why is the film about babies?" 
"That's meant to be a joke. Remember the movie Twins ? It's a joke title. Do you understand?" 
At that moment, Paul Nulty came barging out the door with a huge klieg light, followed by several other members of the crew carrying sound gear. Our cordial tete-a-tete was about to be disrupted. 
My new Hispanic friend saw them and abruptly drew up. That was when I noticed the shoulder holster under his jacket, containing some sort of snub-nosed pistol. 
Jesus, I thought, this must be what some kind of hired killer looks like. That gun's not a prop. 
"I think you are lying." He closed his jacket and, ignoring my crew, bored in relentlessly on me, his eyes dead and mer­ciless. "That is a big mistake." 
It was the first time in my life I'd ever stood next to a man who had a gun and was deeply ticked at me. He'd wanted me to see his piece, just to make sure I took him seriously. He wasn't threatening me, per se. Rather he was letting me know how strongly he cared about what I was doing. 
I twisted a fraction of an inch more, about three degrees shy of popping her shoulder out of the socket. 
“All right already!” She tried to spit the words, but her voice climbed at the end, pitched with pain. 
I let her go. “Come on.” 
Polk was all gangly arms and legs and looked far too thin to have much endurance, but she was in better shape than she appeared, and we made it to the perimeter in less than three minutes. I pushed her down to crouch behind the corner of a building, my eyes roving for the best way out, troop movements becoming vectors, numbers stretching and exploding against the fence. Calculations spun through my brain in infinite combinations. We were going to make it. 
And then a shape rose up, skulking between two buildings, zigzagging to stalk us—a black man, tall and lean and handsome, in a leather jacket. His badge wasn’t visible, but it didn’t need to be; the way he moved told me everything I needed to know. He stood out like a cop in a compound full of drug runners. 
We made good time to Pasadena. Dr. Martinez’s condo was in a pleasant, modern building full of wide windows and balconies. I had my hand under my jacket on my Colt as we got out of the car, just in case. 
Arthur pulled out his mobile as we climbed the steps. “Better let her know we’re here so they’re not surprised.” He dialed. 
And listened, worry overtaking his features. She hadn’t picked up. 
“Maybe her phone ran out of battery,” I said. “Or, I don’t know, maybe she’s taking a nap.” I inched my Colt halfway out of my belt. 
“Maybe,” said Arthur, but he put his phone back in his pocket and slid one hand against his holster. 
We stepped up onto the porch and I leaned on the bell. 
No answer. 
“Shit,” Arthur said softly. 
I drew my gun, keeping it hidden from the street behind my body. “You got your lockpicks on you?” 
“Cover me,” he said, pulling them out. 
He slid the picks in and turned the knob. “Behind me,” I said as he pushed the door open, and I crept in crosshairs-first. Arthur dropped back so I could take point and eased the door shut behind us with a click. 
"It's my nuts and raisins from dinner," replied Rebecca, who never succeeded in keeping the most innocent action a secret from her aunt Miranda; "they're just what you gave me on my plate." 
"Why didn't you eat them?" 
"Because I'd had enough dinner, and I thought if I saved these, it would make the Simpsons' party better," stammered Rebecca, who hated to be scolded and examined before company. 
"They were your own, Rebecca," interposed aunt Jane, "and if you chose to save them to give away, it is all right. We ought never to let this day pass without giving our neighbors something to be thankful for, instead of taking all the time to think of our own mercies." 
The Burnham sisters nodded approvingly as Rebecca went out, and remarked that they had never seen a child grow and improve so fast in so short a time. 
"There's plenty of room left for more improvement, as you'd know if she lived in the same house with you," answered Miranda. "She's into every namable thing in the neighborhood, an' not only into it, but generally at the head an' front of it, especially when it's mischief. Of all the foolishness I ever heard of, that lamp beats everything; it's just like those Simpsons, but I didn't suppose the children had brains enough to sell anything." 
The limes for the daiquiris came from the trees around them on the rooftop conservatory. The trees were healthy working beasts, and the barman expertly inspected several limes before deftly twisting off a basket's worth and retreating to his workbench to juice them over his blender. 
"You have to be a member to drink here," Ria said, as they sat on the roof, watching the jetpacks scud past. 
"I'm not surprised," he said. "It must be expensive." 
"You can't buy your way in," she said. "You have to work it off. It's a co-op. I planted this whole row of trees." She waved her arm, sloshing a little daquiri on the odd turf their loungers rested on. "I planted the mint garden over there." It was a beautiful little patch, decorated with rocks and favored with a small stream that wended its way through them. 
"Forgive me for saying this," he said, "but you must earn a lot of money. A lot , I'm thinking." She nodded, unembarrassed, even waggled her eyebrows a bit. "So you could, I don't know, you could probably build one of these on any of the buildings that Viktor owns in Manhattan. Just like this. Even keep a little staff on board. Give out memberships as perks for your senior management team." 
I coughed. Dammit. 
I staggered up and surveyed my surroundings. Now that I was on the building, it appeared even more vast, a broad forest of rubble and nubs of walls. I began picking my way across. Every so often I caught sight of something that might have been part of the gang’s base—a few loose papers crushed under concrete blocks, a broken computer monitor, a dismembered office chair—but mostly it was unidentifiable debris. 
I stayed wary of any explosives that hadn’t gone in the original blast, but the third floor had died a valiant death and thoroughly destroyed itself. I finally found a staircase—well, more like a ladder into a skylight now. 
Very carefully, I stepped down. 
My skin tingled as I transferred my weight from stair to stair. What if they’d rigged everything about the second floor, instead of only the perimeter like I expected? What if I jostled the wrong bit of wall or stepped on the wrong patch of floor? 
I reached the bottom without blowing anything up. I took a steadying breath, immediately regretted it as my ribs twinged, and peered around, keeping my steps slow and my senses alert. 
Martyrdom wasn’t of interest to me. It was more Arthur’s bag. But I needed a distraction for the Lancer, and stealing Martinez’s identity and running the opposite way she was going, using credit cards and dropping clues, was the best one I could think of. 
Of course, intentionally exposing myself like that for long enough meant the Lancer would eventually catch up to me. He’d put together all my identities and figure out I’d double-crossed him. If he won the cat-and-mouse game, he’d probably chop off my legs and keep me in a dark hole until I reproduced both Halliday’s and Martinez’s proofs myself. 
And I couldn’t expect any backup on this one. Rio would never be able to get here fast enough, and the Lancer had already proven his ability to hide from Checker, even if Checker and Arthur would be willing to come after me—and if it was just me in the crosshairs, I didn’t think it all that likely they’d be motivated to do a damn thing. Not when the reason this was all going wrong was my own insistence on hounding after Martinez; not when I’d been the one to put her at risk. Not when this was all my own fuckup. 
You won. You pulled out a legitimate suspect. Adapting the drone network was a brilliant move. None of my guys would have been able to do that. And without it, I would have faced a ton of pressure to arrest Whiston just for seeming to not care about what was going on— and when I didn't do it, because of the politics involved and because it would be a stupid reason to arrest anybody, I would have spent the rest of my life wondering if I'd made a mistake." 
"It's quite the sunny profession you've got, Becker." 
"Why do you think I left the force in Detroit and joined the EED? At least shipboard, it's still a big deal when somebody gets whacked. And you don't have to worry about your perpetrator being a bunch of kids with nothing else to do but look for trouble." 
"That's encouraging. " 
"No. No, it isn't." There's a weight of misery behind his words, long nights of grappling with the nature of humanity by a man used to seeing only its seamy side. 
"Ray," Becker says after awhile, sounding thoughtful. "Why would Whiston be trying to summon a shed on this ship?" 
"It uplinks to the Inmarsat Series 3 geostationary satel­lites." He indicated the dish. "But it works like a regular phone. The international codes all apply." Then he turned to leave. "I should be ready for the procedure in a few min­utes." 
I picked up the handset and flicked it on. Three green diodes flashed, then two yellow ones, after which a white light came on and I heard a continuous hum, a dial tone. 
Hooray. But was his satellite phone tapped? Why would he let me just call out? Was this a feint in our game of cat-and-mouse, just to lull me into believing everything here was safe and benign? Remembering Sarah's drug experience, I already knew that couldn't be true. For now, though, I had to get an SOS out while I had the chance. 
I'd long since memorized the number of Steve's hotel in Belize City, and if I could reach him, he could go the em­bassy in Guatemala City and . . . I wasn't sure what. I still hoped to get out of here on my own, but if that failed . . . maybe some of those sturdy Marines . . . 
Wait until a new email arrives and count the words that appear in it. Then use the word-frequency histogram in the candidate message to calculate the probability that it belongs in the "spam" pile or the "ham" pile. If it turns out to be spam, you adjust the "spam" histogram accordingly. There are lots of ways to refine the technique -- looking at words in pairs, throwing away old data -- but this is how it works at core. It's one of those great, simple ideas that seems obvious after you hear about it. 
It's got lots of applications -- you can ask a computer to count the lines in a picture and see if it's more like a "dog" line-frequency histogram or a "cat" line-frequency histogram. It can find porn, bank fraud, and flamewars. Useful stuff. 
And it was bad news for the Xnet. Say you had the whole Internet wiretapped -- which, of course, the DHS has. You can't tell who's passing Xnet packets by looking at the contents of those packets, thanks to crypto. 
What you can do is find out who is sending way, way more encrypted traffic out than everyone else. For a normal Internet surfer, a session online is probably about 95 percent cleartext, five percent ciphertext. If someone is sending out 95 percent ciphertext, maybe you could dispatch the computer-savvy equivalents of Booger and Zit to ask them if they're terrorist drug-dealer Xnet users. 
"Never! Cross my heart!" vowed Mr. Cobb solemnly, as he remounted his perch; and as the stage rumbled down the village street between the green maples, those who looked from their windows saw a little brown elf in buff calico sitting primly on the back seat holding a great bouquet tightly in one hand and a pink parasol in the other. Had they been farsighted enough they might have seen, when the stage turned into the side dooryard of the old brick house, a calico yoke rising and falling tempestuously over the beating heart beneath, the red color coming and going in two pale cheeks, and a mist of tears swimming in two brilliant dark eyes. 
Rebecca's journey had ended. 
"There's the stage turnin' into the Sawyer girls' dooryard," said Mrs. Perkins to her husband. "That must be the niece from up Temperance way. It seems they wrote to Aurelia and invited Hannah, the oldest, but Aurelia said she could spare Rebecca better, if 't was all the same to Mirandy 'n' Jane; so it's Rebecca that's come. She'll be good comp'ny for our Emma Jane, but I don't believe they'll keep her three months! She looks black as an Injun what I can see of her; black and kind of up-an-comin'. They used to say that one o' the...  that was teachin' music and languages at a boardin' school. Lorenzo was dark complected, you remember, and this child is, too. Well, I...  real disgrace, not if it's a good ways back and the woman was respectable." 
"It's too full—that's the trouble. But I'll make Hannah come to Riverboro in my place." 
"S'pose Mirandy 'n' Jane'll have her? I should be 'most afraid they wouldn't. They'll be kind o' mad at your goin' home, you know, and you can't hardly blame 'em." 
This was quite a new thought,—that the brick house might be closed to Hannah, since she, Rebecca, had turned her back upon its cold hospitality. 
"How is this school down here in Riverboro—pretty good?" inquired uncle Jerry, whose brain was working with an altogether unaccustomed rapidity,—so much so that it almost terrified him. 
"Oh, it's a splendid school! And Miss Dearborn is a splendid teacher!" 
"You like her, do you? Well, you'd better believe she returns the compliment. Mother was down to the store this afternoon buyin' liniment for Seth Strout, an' she met Miss Dearborn on the bridge. They got to talkin' 'bout school, for mother has summer-boarded a lot o' the schoolmarms, an' likes 'em. 'How does the little Temperance girl git along?' asks mother. 'Oh, she's the best scholar I have!' says Miss Dearborn. 'I could teach school from sun-up to sun-down if scholars was all like Rebecca Randall,' says she." 
"Children of Light," said an unctuous voice. "This is Ramala." 
I hesitated a moment before giving my name. They already knew who I was; Ramala or somebody had called Paula Marks and asked about me. Me. What would she do when she heard it was yours truly in the flesh? 
I tried to take a deep breath, working around the feeling my lungs were on fire, and identified myself. 
Ramala received the information as though she'd never heard of me. Maybe she hadn't. Then I asked for an appoint­ment with Alex Goddard. As soon as it was convenient. 
"He leaves his Saturdays open," she said, more of the smiley voice, "so I could make a special appointment for you tomorrow. Would ten A.M. be all right?" 
Her accent was the kind of Delhi colonial-ruling-class you associate with expensive silk saris and ruby bracelets, yet at the same time her voice had an overlay of that melodious, touchy-feely unctuousness you hear on relaxation tapes. I half expected her to next say, inhale deeply and feel the love flowing through the universe. In any case, she couldn't have sounded more open and forthcoming. 
Her tone is tinged with a distressingly reverential awe. Ray frowns hearing it. "She probably just checked the security log. Assumptions beyond that are fairly straightforward." 
Emma only shrugs. If that's what you want to believe. 
What he wants to believe is that Amah is a cranky old harridan mortified by her advancing age and her increasingly faulty carbon-based husk and takes her disappointments out on the young men her stunning daughter by proxy chooses to bring home. He wants to believe that she has been alone and bitter and charged with the task of raising someone else's youngsters for so long that her bulldog defense of their interests and innocence has staggered from competent to obsessive and is now well on its way to psychosis. 
The truth is that if he had been Emma's father and had caught some gauche young turk sneaking into her bedroom in the middle of the night, the chances were good that he'd be in lockup for the unauthorized discharge of firearms in the direction of individuals who had not granted their express, written consent to being mistaken for shooting range targets. 
He knocked at zbigkrot's door twice before entering. Technically, any brother or sister was allowed to enter any room on the campus, though there were norms of privacy and decorum that were far stronger than any law or rule. 
The room was bare, every last trace of its occupant removed. A fine dust covered every surface, swirling in clouds as they took a few steps in. They both coughed explosively and stepped back, slamming the door. 
"Skin," Gerta croaked. "Collected from the ventilation filters. DNA for every person on campus, in a nice, even, Gaussian distribution. Means we can't use biometrics to figure out who was in this room before it was cleaned out." 
Lawrence tasted the dust in his mouth and swallowed his gag reflex. Technically, he knew that he was always inhaling and ingesting other people's dead skin-cells, but not by the mouthful. 
"All right," Gerta said. " Now you've got an Anomaly. Congrats, Lawrence. Personal growth awaits you." 
The campus only had one entrance to the wall that surrounded it. "Isn't that a fire-hazard?" Lawrence asked the guard who sat in the pillbox at the gate. 
“Yes,” said he; “and Muriel may be a bit eccentric, you know. I rather imagine she is, from her letters. I’ve never seen her.” 
“Never seen your own sister!” 
Lexy would certainly have asked questions now, manners or no manners, only that Mrs. Royce entered the room again, to fulfill her promise to make a “nice wood fire.” Amazing, the difference it made in the room! The ugliness and stiffness vanished in the ruddy glow. It seemed a delightful room, now, homely and welcoming and safe. 
“It’s real cozy here,” said Mrs. Royce, “on a night like this. I’m sorry the dining room’s so kind of chilly.” 
“Oh, can’t we have supper here, by the fire?” cried Lexy. “Please! We’ll promise not to get any crumbs on your nice carpet, Mrs. Royce!” 
“I guess you can,” replied the landlady benevolently. 
And so it happened that the ancient magic of fire was invoked in Lexy’s behalf. Probably, if she and Captain Grey had had their supper in the chilly dining room, they would have been a little chilly, too, and more cautious. They might not have said all that they did say. 
"Are you hurt?" Mom said. "Hungry?" 
"Sleepy?" 
"Yeah, a little of all that. Also Dopey, Doc, Sneezy and Bashful." We had a family tradition of Seven Dwarfs jokes. They both smiled a little, but their eyes were still wet. I felt really bad for them. They must have been out of their minds with worry. I was glad for a chance to change the subject. "I'd totally love to eat." 
"I'll order a pizza from Goat Hill," Dad said. 
"No, not that," I said. They both looked at me like I'd sprouted antennae. I normally have a thing about Goat Hill Pizza -- as in, I can normally...  gobbling until it either runs out or I pop. I tried to smile. "I just don't feel like pizza," I said, lamely. "Let's order some curry, OK?" Thank heaven that San Francisco is take-out central. 
Mom went to the drawer of take-out menus (more normalcy, feeling like a drink of water on a dry, sore throat) and riffled through them. 
Once the food was ordered, the questions started again. They'd heard from Van's, Jolu's and Darryl's families (of course) and had tried to report us missing. The police were taking names, but there were so many "displaced persons" that they weren't going to open files on anyone unless they were still missing after seven days. 
“I shan’t tell you anything at all,” she said, and began to walk on again. 
He put on his hat and turned away, but in a moment he was back at her side. 
“Look here!” he said. “Caroline told me you were her friend. She said you could be trusted. All right—I am trusting you. I’ve felt, all along, that there was—something wrong. I’ve got to know! If you’ll give me your word that she’s safe at home, I’ll clear out, and apologize for having made a first-class fool of myself; but if she’s not, I ought to know!” 
Lexy stopped again. Their eyes met in a long, steady glance. 
“I can’t answer any questions this morning,” she told him. “I promised I wouldn’t.” 
“Then there is something wrong!” the young man exclaimed. 
He was silent for a long time, staring at the ground, and Lexy waited, with a fast beating heart, for some word that would enlighten her. At last he looked up. 
“I’ve got to trust you,” he said simply. “Caroline meant to tell you, anyhow. You see”—he paused—“I’m Charles Houseman, the man she’s going to marry.” 
"Coming here!" exclaimed Miranda, letting her knitting fall in her lap, and taking her spectacles off, as she always did in moments of extreme excitement. "Did they invite themselves?" 
"No," Rebecca answered. "I had to invite them for you; but I thought you'd like to have such interesting company. 
"Stop your explainin', and tell me first when they'll be here. Right away?" 
"No, not for two hours—about half past five." 
"Then you can explain, if you can, who gave you any authority to invite a passel of strangers to stop here over night, when you know we ain't had any company for twenty years, and don't intend to have any for another twenty,—or at any rate while I'm the head of the house." 
"Don't blame her, Miranda, till you've heard her story," said Jane. "It was in my mind right along, if we went to the meeting, some such thing might happen, on account of Mr. Burch knowing father." 
"The meeting was a small one," began Rebecca "I gave all your messages, and everybody was disappointed you couldn't come, for the president wasn't there, and Mrs. Matthews took the chair, which was a pity, for the seat wasn't nearly big enough for her, and she reminded me of a line in a hymn we sang, 'Wide as the heathen nations are,' and she wore that kind of a beaver garden-hat that always gets on one side. And Mr. Burch talked beautifully about the Syrian heathen, and the singing went real well, and there looked to be about forty cents in the basket that was passed on our side. And that wouldn't save even a heathen baby, would it? Then Mr. Burch said, if any sister would offer entertainment, they would pass the night, and have a parlor meeting in Riverboro to-morrow, with Mrs. Burch in Syrian costume, and lovely foreign things to show. Then he waited and waited, and nobody said a word. I was so mortified I didn't know what to do. And then he repeated what he said, an explained why he wanted to stay, and you could see he thought it was his duty. Just then Mrs. Robinson whispered to me and said the missionaries always used to go to the brick house when grandfather was alive, and that he never would let them sleep anywhere else. I didn't know you had stopped having them because no traveling ministers have been here, except just for a Sunday morning, since I came to Riverboro. So I thought I ought to invite them, as you weren't there to do it for yourself, and you told me to represent the family." 
“Well,” he said, “it’s hard to put it into words; but that’s not a wholesome sort of life for a young woman, shut away like that. The doctor says her health’s not good, but it’s my opinion that if she got about more—saw more people, you know—” 
Lexy felt a great pity for him. Apparently he did not even suspect what she was now sure of—that the unfortunate Muriel was hopelessly addicted to some drug, which her husband himself gave to her. 
“And I hope he’ll go back to India before he does find out,” she thought. “It’s too horrible—he worships her so!” 
“I’ve tried, you know,” he went on. “I wanted to take her into the city, to a concert. Seems confoundedly queer, doesn’t it, the way she’s lost interest in her music? She didn’t want to go. Then about the emerald—” 
“Oh!” said Lexy, who had forgotten about the emerald. 
“Chap I know designed a setting for it. It’s unset now, you know, and I thought I’d like to do that for her while I was here; but she doesn’t seem interested. I can’t even get her to let me see the thing. I’ve asked her two or three times, but she always puts me off. Do you think it bores her?” 
His living room looked like one of those news-segments they show about abandoned kids who spend a month locked in before they're rescued by the neighbors: frozen meal boxes, empty beer cans and juice bottles, moldy cereal bowls and piles of newspapers. There was a reek of cat piss and litter crunched underneath our feet. Even without the cat piss, the smell was incredible, like a bus-station toilet. 
The couch was made up with a grimy sheet and a couple of greasy pillows and the cushions had a dented, much-slept-upon look. 
We all stood there for a long silent moment, embarrassment overwhelming every other emotion. Darryl's father looked like he wanted to die. 
Slowly, he moved aside the sheets from the sofa and cleared the stacked, greasy food-trays off of a couple of the chairs, carrying them into the kitchen, and, from the sound of it, tossing them on the floor. 
We sat gingerly in the places he'd cleared, and then he came back and sat down too. 
"I'm sorry," he said vaguely. "I don't...  I'm having more groceries delivered tomorrow so I'm running low --" 
I set up the laptop on a dry bit of rock and booted it from the DVD with her watching. "I'm going to reboot it for every person. This is a standard ParanoidLinux disc, though I guess you'd have to take my word for it." 
"Hell," she said. "This is all about trust, right?" 
"Yeah," I said. "Trust." 
I retreated some distance as she ran the key-generator, listening to her typing and mousing to create randomness, listening to the crash of the surf, listening to the party noises from over where the beer was. 
She stepped out of the cave, carrying the laptop. On it, in huge white luminous letters, were her public key and her fingerprint and email address. She held the screen up beside her face and waited while I got my phone out. 
"Cheese," she said. I snapped her pic and dropped the camera back in my pocket. She wandered off to the revelers and let them each get pics of her and the screen. It was festive. Fun. She really had a lot of charisma -- you didn't want to laugh at her, you just wanted to laugh with her. And hell, it was funny! We were declaring a secret war on the secret police. Who the hell did we think we were? 
“Are you fucking kidding me?” I sputtered. “You know we’re on the clock here, right?” We didn’t have time for clowning around, but more than that, it was...off-putting. Besides, it was objective fact that my looks fell on the lacking side of any aesthetic scale. Symmetry and proportions—who cared? 
Checker pulled a face that made him look about five years old. “I don’t know if I like her, Arthur.” 
“Cut her some slack,” said Tresting. “We all had a rough night.” He cleared his throat, then said carefully, “She might have some more pieces of the puzzle, too.” 
Checker perked up immediately. “Well, why didn’t you say so?” He rubbed his long, thin hands together and reached out to start clattering on one of his many keyboards, his fingers so fast the clack of the keys was almost indistinguishable. “What’ve you got for us, Cas Russell?” 
I blinked. I’d had Tresting’s relationship with this guy all wrong. Checker wasn’t merely his information broker. This wasn’t just a business deal. The two of them were friends. And Checker was as invested in this case as Tresting himself was. 
› The bosses used to use bots, but the game has countermeasures against them. Hiring children to click the mouse is cheaper than hiring programmers to circumvent the rules. I’ve been trying to unionize them because they’ve got a very high rate of injury. They have to play for 18-hour shifts with only one short toilet break. Some of them can’t hold it in and they soil themselves where they sit. 
she typed, exasperated. 
› it’s none of my lookout, is it. the world’s like that. lots of people with no money. im just a kid, theres nothing i can do about it. 
› When you kill them, they don’t get paid. 
› When you kill them, they lose their day’s wages. Do you know who is paying you to do these killings? 
She thought of Saudis, rich Japanese, Russian mobsters. 
› I’ve been trying to find that out myself, Kali. 
They were all dead now. Raymond stood alone amongst the piled corpses. 
› I will see you again, I’m sure. 
She cut his head off. Her wrists hurt. She was hungry. She was alone there in the enormous woodland cottage, and she still had to haul the BFG10K back to Fahrenheit Island. 
I melted back into the trees and studied the geometry of the plaza, reconsidering my situation. I needed to find some way to get around it and onto the cobblestone pathway at the far side, which led into the village. Finally I decided I could skirt the periphery if I was careful not to advertise my presence. Dawn had come and gone and the quick light of tropical day was arriving, but everybody appeared to be pre­occupied with their nightmarish preparations. 
Thank God it worked. I weaved in and among the trees and in five minutes I'd reached the central pathway, now deserted. Still barely letting myself breathe, I turned back and gazed up at the pyramid. I had no idea what was next, but I decided it would be my signpost, to help me keep my bearings as I moved through the confusing, tree-shrouded huts of Baalum . Except for the men in the square, the village now seemed deserted, though a pack of brown dogs, curious and annoying, had spotted me and now circled around to sniff. Don't bark, damn it. 
I dropped to the ground and pawed around until I found my Colt. The crushing heat pressed against me, making me heady and faint. The air molecules scorched my trachea. 
My unseen enemies had devolved into chaos, shouting and shrieking. I rolled under the van—the narrow band of visible ground across from me was full of blood and fire and flailing limbs curdling into blackness as they burned. A few of the men had escaped the carnage and were still standing. I shot them all in the legs. And I didn’t shoot to wound. I shot for the arteries. 
Their feet splayed and collapsed under them, and blood spurted along with a few abortive bursts of gunfire. Bodies hit the asphalt and weapons clattered to the ground, and more people screamed. 
It was hard to focus through the flames. It was hard to breathe. The sips of hot air kept choking me. 
I’d counted six burning bodies on the ground and shot three more. That was nine, plus the one I’d killed in the SUV made ten. Would they really have sent more than twelve? Would they? 
I reached for the car door handle. Maybe these men were only burglars after her little stash of savings, but I wasn’t going to bet on it. “I’m going to get closer. Stay here and keep out of sight.” 
“What if they come this way?” Courtney had gone pale, her freckles standing out across her cheekbones. 
“Hide,” I said, and got out of the car. 
I still hadn’t had a chance to clean up my face, and despite this not being the best part of town—unkempt, weedy lawns buttressed trash-filled gutters, and most of the houses sported cracked siding and sun-peeled paint—I got a few looks from people on the street as I strolled toward Courtney’s cottage. I ran a hand through my short hair, but it was a tangled, curly mass and I was pretty sure I only made it worse. Undercover work has never been my forte. 
I meandered down the sidewalk, keeping a sidelong view of Courtney’s house. The dark-suited men became points in motion, my brain extrapolating from the little I could see and hear, assigning probabilities and translating to expected values. As I drew up to the house, the highs and lows of conversation became barely audible, but I ran some quick numbers—to decipher the words, I’d have to be so close I’d be the most obvious eavesdropper in the world. The plot of half-hearted grass between the street and the houses didn’t have any handy cover I could use to sneak closer, either. 
“It’s done. Luckily, I got to do my section with Nikko and not with Marcella or Dave, which would have sucked.” I babbled for a while about some of the art...  the assignment was while I finished cleaning the refriger- ator, chattering just to fill in the big hole left by all the things I wasn’t telling Monica about my day - the parts that were none of her business. 
“This Nikko - he sounds pretty neat.” 
“He is. But it turns out he has a girlfriend, so it’s not like . . . 
you know. He’s a good guy, though.” 
She sat in a chair and rubbed her foot, absently fingering a hole in her tights. “What?” I asked, because something in her face told me she had something to say but didn’t know how to start. 
“I had a long conversation with Peter and Lauren today.” 
Wilson’s dad and his wife. My adoptive parents. My stomach clenched. “What do they want?” 
“They were just checking to make sure you’re okay.” 
“What did they say about Wilson?” 
“They told me he has a good lawyer. They’re hopeful, but con- cerned. They thought . . .” she paused, picking her words care- fully. “They wondered if you might want to go home for a while.” 
"Really? Who's the guy who nearly had a heart attack when he thought that his secret identity was out?" 
"That was different," I said. "This isn't about me. You know it isn't. Why are you being like this?" 
"Why are you like this?" she said. "Why aren't you willing to be the guy who was brave enough to get all this started?" 
"This isn't brave, it's suicide." 
"Cheap teenage melodrama, M1k3y." 
"Don't call me that!" 
"What, 'M1k3y'? Why not, M1k3y ?" 
I put my shoes on. I picked up my bag. I walked home. 
> I won't tell anyone else what to do, because I'm not anyone's leader, no matter what Fox News thinks. 
> But I am going to tell you what I plan on doing. If you think that's the right thing to do, maybe you'll do it too. 
> I'm not jamming. Not this week. Maybe not next. It's not because I'm scared. It's because I'm smart enough to know that I'm better free than in prison. They figured out how to stop our tactic, so we need to come up with a new tactic. I don't care what the tactic is, but I want it to work. It's stupid to get arrested. It's only jamming if you get away with it. 
"Indeed. And you're supposed to say something flattering in return." 
"If you get me started we'll be standing here all day." He's fairly certain he's making a fool of himself. Despite everything, just seeing her overwhelms him. "You make me feel dizzy." 
Emma puts her finger to her lips, hushing him. 
She mouths one word: wonderful. 
But with a toss of her head, she indicates the space behind her. Someone listening in. He suspects this is supposed to make him feel instantly and utterly abashed, but it doesn't. Whoever it is, he owes them a debt of dignity. 
So he'll have something less awkward to do, Ray thrusts the package of chocolates at her. Grins like an idiot. 
preferably right where he is, even more preferably, without chewing on anything that looks expensive. A brief, but frenzied negotiation results in Emma unwrapping the bundle and handing over a piece of chocolate to placate him. 
She leads him through a brief vestibule of white marble floors, soft wood paneling and fine Grecian urns mounted on Romanesque stone pillars, both of which, Ray suspects, are actual antiquities rather than clever reproductions thereof. Through an arched doorway is a large parlor that is everything one would expect from a Whiston family domestic space. The carpet is plush, white, dreadfully soft. There are leather chairs sprinkled about in chummy groups which break up the uncharacteristic vastness of the open room. Low bookcases neatly arranged with dark leather volumes stamped with gold lettering on the spines line two of the walls. The wall directly to Ray's right is taken up by a massive vid screen, currently dark, but bracketed on each side by fading frescoed tiles, what seem to be remnants of ancient Pompeii. A tasteful assortment of lamps and flowers, flowers hiding lamps, lamps shaped like flowers, generate a white glare that is almost dazzling.  And Ray might be tempted to be dazzled, except he suddenly remembers something Emma had said to him. 
"Breaking into the principal" was, in the minds of most thrifty New England women, a sin only second to arson, theft, or murder; and, though the rule was occasionally carried too far for common sense,—as in this case, where two elderly women of sixty might reasonably have drawn something from their little hoard in time of special need,—it doubtless wrought more of good than evil in the community. 
Rebecca, who knew nothing of their business affairs, merely saw her aunts grow more and more saving, pinching here and there, cutting off this and that relentlessly....  the woman who had lately been coming two days a week for washing, ironing, and scrubbing was dismissed; the old bonnets of the season before were brushed up and retrimmed; there were no drives to Moderation or trips to Portland. Economy was carried to its very extreme; but though Miranda was well-nigh as gloomy and uncompromising in her manner and conversation as a woman could well be, she at least never twitted her niece of being a burden; so Rebecca's share of the Sawyers' misfortunes consisted only in wearing her old dresses, hats, and jackets, without any apparent hope of a change. 
I rose cautiously from my crouch behind the downed bike and stepped out gun first, my boots crunching on sandy gravel and the shards of my shredded motorcycle. I had expected to see Rio striding toward me, tan duster swirling around him; instead, the silhouette of my assist was shorter and darker—and was transferring his gun from the defeated biker gang to me. My own SIG snapped over in the same instant, and I found myself facing the cop who had held me up earlier that same day, who was apparently really fucking good at tailing me, and who was quickly becoming the bane of my existence. 
We stood for a moment pointing guns at each other. 
“Someone wanted you super-dee-duper dead,” the cop said finally, almost idly. His eyes flickered down to the muscle-bound corpses, then back up to me. “You piss off some one-percenters?” 
One-percenters? I searched my memory. That was cop-speak for the outlaw motorcycle gangs, wasn’t it? The answer to his question was no, I wasn’t at odds with anyone in the outlaw biker crowd—in fact, I’d had a few as clients before, and they’d all been perfect gentlemen. I did have enemies who might have hired these guys, but...well. If this attack wasn’t related to Courtney Polk somehow, I would eat my gun. 
A phone. When had Arthur gotten a phone? I hadn’t seen him pull one from any of the guards... 
He held it out to Rio. “She wants to talk to you.” 
Rio’s face was unreadable. “Ah,” he said. “I see.” 
“I’m sorry,” Arthur whispered to me. The hand holding the phone was shaking. “So sorry.” 
Horror shorted out my brain. “No,” I said. “ No.” 
“Cas—” tried Rio. 
“You’ve been working for them this whole time?” I cried. 
“No—it ain’t like that—” 
“You betrayed us!” My M4 swung to point at Arthur. “You—!” 
Rio placed a cautious hand on my weapon, shifting it off line. “Cas, it isn’t his fault. Dawna Polk did talk to you, didn’t she?” he said to Arthur. 
“I’m sorry,” he said again, wretchedly. “I’m sorry, Russell.” 
I had to restrain myself from hitting him. 
“Give me the phone,” said Rio. He hit a button and held the phone out in front of us, raising his voice slightly. “Go ahead.” 
I recognized Dawna Polk’s mellifluous voice on the speaker immediately. “I must say I’m impressed.” 
Rio was silent. 
A soft click. I wasn’t sure how I heard it; everything was still muffled and ringing; but my brain immediately knew: lighter. 
Another flaming bottle soared over the roof of the van. 
The world slowed only to the parabola of projectile motion. The bottle sailed down, tumbling end over end, the flame on the soaked rag flaring as the wind of its passage whipped at it. 
I swung my arm down and around in a circle and came up right underneath it, like my arm was a freaking golf club, and smacked the heel of my hand against it, cupping it with infinite gentleness and then following it up with increasing speed until I let it fly back the other way, bottle strength estimates ricocheting through my head along with maximum decelerations because the one thing I absolutely did not want was for the bottle to break against my hand— I felt the momentum transfer echo through my arm and the flame blistered me, and then the bottle was flying back the way it had come. Exactly the way it had come. 
The world sped up again. My sleeve had caught fire. I smashed it against myself to smother it as I ducked. 
What had Rio said? That the conversion would take time, if her goal went fundamentally against her victim’s personality? Months, even, for a result opposite to the person’s psychology? 
What was my psychology? Axiomatic, probably, but I’d already witnessed her ability to rewrite those axioms to let me rationalize anything. I had no defense against her. Neither of us did. 
“I ain’t never been one to consider suicide an appropriate solution,” said Tresting beside me, “but in this case...” 
I snapped my head around to look at him. Killing myself hadn’t even occurred to me. “Well, I guess that’s one way to avoid her influence,” I managed. 
“Avoid it, and make sure she ain’t never make me do nothing to my—to anyone I cared about. Or anyone else.” 
If his main concern was being used as a tool to hurt others, then he was definitely the better person. “I...if you want to do that, I can make it quick,” I offered, the words dry in my mouth. 
“Thank you,” he said quietly. “I’ll let you know.” 
We lapsed into silence. Eventually I curled up on the cement floor and tried for some sleep. One of the guards brought us food and water every few hours, and Arthur was graceful about turning away when I needed to use the steel toilet affixed to the wall. The wait was humane, if tedious. 
“You mean you want me to pretend I’m Caroline?” cried Lexy. 
“I wish it to be thought that you are Caroline,” Mrs. Enderby corrected her. “Please waste no time. The car will be here—” 
“Mrs. Enderby, I—I can’t do it!” 
“You can, Miss Moran, and I think you will.” 
But Lexy was pretty close to desperation now. Her honest and vigorous spirit was entangled in a network of promises and obligations and deceptions, and she could not see how to free herself; but she would not passively submit. 
“No,” she said, “I can’t. I’ve found out something—I can’t tell you about it just now, but this afternoon I hope—” 
“This afternoon is another thing,” said Mrs. Enderby. “In the meantime—” 
“But it’s important! It’s—” 
“You think I do not know? You think this letter sets my mind at rest?” Mrs. Enderby demanded, with one of her sudden flashes of temper. “That is imbecile! I know how serious it is that my child should leave me like this; but I know what is my duty—first, to my husband. That first, I tell you! It is for me to see that no disgrace comes upon his house, no scandal—that first! Then, next, I must see to it that the way is left open for Caroline to come back—if she wishes.” She came close to Lexy, and fixed those black eyes of hers upon the girl’s face. “I tell you, Miss Moran, there will be no scandal!” 
“She’s good at doing grown-up voices. She was a good part of the network. When someone needed a mom or a social worker to call in an excuse, she was always one of the best. Talented. She goes to school with my kid sister and I met them one day at the Peanut Plaza and she was doing this impression of her teachers and I knew I had to get her on the network.” 
Ada hanging around the plaza after school—she was supposed to come straight home. Why didn’t he wiretap her more? “You built the network?” 
“It’s cooperative, it’s cool—it’s a bunch of us cooperating. We’ve got nodes everywhere now. You can’t shut it down—even if you shut down my node, it’ll be back up again in an hour. Someone else will bring it up.” 
He shoved the kid back down and stood over him. “Liam, I want you to understand something. My precious daughter is missing and she went missing after using your service to help her get away. She is the only thing in my life that I care about and I am a highly trained, heavily armed man. I am also very, very upset. Cap—understand me, Liam?” 
For her own part, Sarah just seemed to drift at first, to the point I sometimes wondered if she realized she was back at Lou's loft. Then abruptly, one day she snapped into her old self and started sending for re-registration materials from Co­lumbia. I really needed to talk with her about our mutual nightmare, but she seemed to have erased all memories of Baalum , except for occasional mumbles in Kekchi Maya. Perhaps that was best, I consoled myself. Maybe it was wise for us all just to let the ghosts of that faraway place lie sleep­ing. 
As for Lou, I told him as little as I could about what happened to her there. He hadn't returned to work, had mainly stayed at his Soho place to be near her, as though he was fearful she might be snatched away from him once more. Frankly, I think all his enforced closeness was starting to grate on her nerves, though I dared not hint such a thing to him. 
In the meantime, Steve returned to Belize to wrap up his photo essay, and David submitted a (very) rough cut of Baby Love to the selection committee at Sundance (our hoped-for distribution deal with Orion was, alas, in temporary turn­around pending yet another management shuffle). We did, however, squeeze an advance from Lifetime that lowered the heat with Nicky Russo. 
"No, I was with him." 
"Was he young?" 
"Yes; young and brave and handsome, Rebecca; he was Mr. Carter's brother Tom." 
"Oh! I'm so glad you were with him! Wasn't he glad, aunt Jane?" 
Jane looked back across the half-forgotten years, and the vision of Tom's gladness flashed upon her: his haggard smile, the tears in his tired eyes, his outstretched arms, his weak voice saying, "Oh, Jenny! Dear Jenny! I've wanted you so, Jenny!" It was too much! She had never breathed a word of it before to a human creature, for there was no one who would have understood. Now, in a shamefaced way, to hide her brimming eyes, she put her head down on the young shoulder beside her, saying, "It was hard, Rebecca!" 
The Simpson baby had cuddled down sleepily in Rebecca's lap, leaning her head back and sucking her thumb contentedly. Rebecca put her cheek down until it touched her aunt's gray hair and softly patted her, as she said, "I'm sorry, aunt Jane!" 
The girl's eyes were soft and tender and the heart within her stretched a little and grew; grew in sweetness and intuition and depth of feeling. It had looked into another heart, felt it beat, and heard it sigh; and that is how all hearts grow. 
She hauled him to her, seeing that he was only five or six, and that his pouting lips were alarmingly blue and that his skin was as pale as cream. She scooped the water out of his mouth, hooked her arm around his neck and tilted his head back and began to slosh back toward shore. When she was waist-deep -- immodestly revealed in a bra that she was quite certain had gone completely transparent -- she pinched his nose and blew into his mouth, not quite getting her mouth out of the way before he vomited up a gush of...  She spat and wished that she could duck her head and get a mouthful of ocean to rinse with, but she couldn't without dunking the boy, too, so she hauled him up out of the water and handed him to the Relative who was standing with his arms on the shore, his fine leather shoes soaked with cold seawater. 
She looked for the swimmer, and saw that he was still face-down in the sand. "You, you and you," she said, pointing at three young cousins whose wide eyes were flicking from her boobs to her crotch -- white underwear, Christ, why white underwear today? -- to the boy on the sand, who was mobbed now with Relatives whose hubbub had reached deafening proportions, "Go to the house, find an old-fashioned phone and call emergency services. Tell them where we are, and that we have two drowning victims, one a child, neither breathing. What are you going to do?" 
He still looked worried, but we quickly put together a plan for the next few days in the usual Group way. Trusted volunteers would gather and analyze intel on every member of the Min- neapolis Joint Terrorist Task Force, storing all of the information they turned up in a secure drop that Jason would build. Zeke would work with his connections to set up a website in Brazil and a mirror site in Iceland in case the other one got taken down. 
“You know what this means, don’t you?” he said, turning to me, suddenly concerned. “You’re going to be under a micro- scope.” 
“I already am. We had cops at the door first thing this morn- ing.” 
“What?” 
“They didn’t have a warrant, so we told them to go away, and they did.” 
“Zenobia, badass woman warrior,” Zeke said with a sneer. Or maybe that was just how his face was shaped. It was hard to tell. 
“If this goes viral, you’ll have both the cops and the media after you,” Ian said. “You won’t have much chance to think. You won’t have any privacy.” 
That could make things difficult. “Your talk is on Tuesday, 
“They’re—” Robbie considered a moment. “They...  having a little adjustment problem.” 
“That happens. I was worried about the zooxanthellae—the algae they use for photosynthesis. Would they expel it? Racial cleansing is so ugly.” 
“How would I know if they’d expelled it?” 
“The reef would go white, bleached. You wouldn’t be able to miss it. How’d they react to you?” 
“They weren’t very happy to see me,” Robbie admitted. “That’s why I wanted to have a chat with them before I went back.” 
“You shouldn’t go back,” the distant voice said. Robbie tried to work out where its substrate was, based on the lightspeed lag, but it was all over the place, leading him to conclude that it was synching multiple instances from as close as LEO and as far as Jupiter. The topology made sense: you’d want a big mass out at Jupiter where you could run very fast and hot and create policy, and you’d need a local foreman to oversee operations on the ground. Robbie was glad that this hadn’t been phrased as an order. The talmud on the second law made a clear distinction between statements like “you should do this” and “I command you to do this.” 
My knees shook. I knew now that they were playing with me again. In a moment, the guards would grab me and drag me back inside, the bag would go over my head again, and I would be back on the boat and sent off to the prison again, to the endless, unanswerable questions. I barely held myself back from stuffing my fist in my mouth. 
Then I forced myself to go down one stair. Another stair. The last stair. My sneakers crunched down on the crap on the alley's floor, broken glass, a needle, gravel. I took a step. Another. I reached the mouth of the alley and stepped onto the sidewalk. 
No one grabbed me. 
I was free. 
Then strong arms threw themselves around me. I nearly cried. 
But it was Van, and she was crying, and hugging me so hard I couldn't breathe. I didn't care. I hugged her back, my face buried in her hair. 
"You're OK!" she said. 
"I'm OK," I managed. 
She finally let go of me and another set of arms wrapped themselves around me. It was Jolu! They were both there. He whispered, "You're safe, bro," in my ear and hugged me even tighter than Vanessa had. 
It was then that I caught sight of the bedside clock, which had long ago rolled onto the floor and lay there, glowing up at us. 
"Crap!" I yelped. "It starts in two minutes!" I couldn't freaking believe that I was about to stop what I was about to stop doing, when I was about to stop doing it. I mean, if you'd asked me, "Marcus, you are about to get laid for the firstest time EVAR, will you stop if I let off this nuclear bomb in the same room as you?" the answer would have been a resounding and unequivocal NO . 
And yet we stopped for this. 
She grabbed me and pulled my face to hers and kissed me until I thought I would pass out, then we both grabbed our clothes and more or less dressed, grabbing our keyboards and mice and heading for Patcheye Pete's. 
You could easily tell who the press were: they were the noobs who played their characters like staggering drunks, weaving back and forth and up and down, trying to get the hang of it all, occasionally hitting the wrong key and offering strangers all or part of their inventory, or giving them accidental hugs and kicks. 
"Governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed, that whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it, and to institute new government, laying its foundation on such principles, and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness." I remembered it word for word. 
He shook his head. "Remembering things isn't the same as understanding them, sonny." He bent over his computer and made some clicks. His printer purred. He handed me a sheet of warm Board letterhead that said I'd been suspended for two weeks. 
"I'll email your parents now. If you are still on school property in thirty minutes, you'll be arrested for trespassing." 
I looked at him. 
"You don't want to declare war on me in my own school," he said. "You can't win that war. GO!" 
I left. 
The Xnet wasn't much fun in the middle of the school-day, when all the people who used it were in school. I had the piece of paper folded in the back pocket of my jeans, and I threw it on the kitchen table when I got home. I sat down in the living room and switched on the TV. I never watched it, but I knew that my parents did. The TV and the radio and the newspapers were where they got all their ideas about the world. 
"Hello, Marcus?" she snapped her fingers in front of my face. "Over here, Marcus." There was a little smile on her face and I hated myself for letting her see my fear. "Marcus, it can be a lot worse than this. This isn't the worst place we can put you, not by a damned sight." She reached down below the table and came out with a briefcase, which she snapped open. From it, she withdrew my phone, my arphid sniper/cloner, my wifinder, and my memory keys. She set them down on the table one after the other. 
"Here's what we want from you. You unlock the phone for us today. If you do that, you'll get outdoor and bathing privileges. You'll get a shower and you'll be allowed to walk around in the exercise yard. Tomorrow, we'll bring you back and ask you to decrypt the data on these memory sticks. Do that, and you'll get to eat in the mess hall. The day after, we're going to want your email passwords, and that will get you library privileges." 
The word "no" was on my lips, like a burp trying to come up, but it wouldn't come. "Why?" is what came out instead. 
Then the slimy Rio Tigre, now swelling from the rain, came into view. I stared at it a second before I noticed the three young Army recruits leaning against the trunk of a giant Cebia tree next to the trail, their rifles covered in plastic against the rain. When they saw us, they stiffened, shifted their weapons, and glanced up at the top of the pyramid, as though seeking orders. Neither group had any idea why the other was there. Sarah and I were an unforeseen contingency they hadn't been briefed on. 
What are they going to do? They have no idea what just happened. 
"Morgy," Sarah said, gazing blankly at the sky, "the colors are so beautiful. Can we—?" 
"Shhh, we'll talk in a minute." 
I smiled and nodded and began walking past the young privates, holding my breath. Then a spectral form emerged out of the rain just behind them. 
It took me a moment to recognize who it was. I was hoping it might be Steve, but instead it was a man dressed in white, now covered with mud, and holding a knife, not obsidian this time but long and steel. His eyes were glazed, and I wasn't sure if he even knew exactly where he was. Why had he come down to the river? Had he known I'd come here, too? 
Anyway, when Lou got transferred to New York, he was actually delighted, since it gave him a chance to be closer to her. We all managed to get together for family reunions pretty often, though Lou and Sarah were talking past each other half the time. 
Then tragedy struck. She was just finishing her master's, and had been accepted by Cornell Medical—Lou was burst­ing with pride—when he suggested they use her Christmas break to drive back down to Texas together, there to visit Rose's grave. (I think he really wanted to show off his bud­ding doctor-to-be to the family.) Sarah was driving when they crossed the state line into Louisiana and were side-swiped by a huge Mack eighteen-wheeler, which was in the process of jackknifing across a frozen patch of interstate. They were thrown into the path of an oncoming car, and when the blood and snow were cleared, a six-year-old girl in the other vehicle was dead. 
The result was Sarah decided she'd taken a human life. Her own minor facial cuts—which Lou immediately had re­paired with plastic surgery—somehow evolved into a major disfigurement of her soul. All her mental eccentricities, which had been locked up somewhere when she started col­lege, came back like a rush of demons loosed from some Pandora's box deep in her psyche. She dropped out of school, and before long she was in the throes of a full-scale mental meltdown. She disappeared, and in the following two years Lou got exactly one card from her, postmarked in San Fran­cisco with no return address. He carried it with him at all times and we both studied it often, puzzling over the New Age astrological symbol on the front. The brief note announced she'd acquired "Divine Energy" and was living on a new plane of consciousness. 
"Did you mean 'Hungarian Restaurants'?" 
He snorted. No, he'd meant "holistic restaurants," you dumbass search-engine. It nagged at him. He pulled up his search history and went back through the results, printing out the pages. Then he logged out of his Google account and went back through the same searches, comparing the results to the logged-in pages. The differences were striking. A search for "democratic primary" pointed to anti-Hillary rants on angry blogs when he was logged in, and to information on volunteering for the DNC when he was logged out. Searching for "abortion clinic" while logged out listed the nearest Planned Parenthood office; searching while logged in gave him information about Campaign Life, ProLife.com, and the ProLife alliance. Good thing he wasn't pregnant. 
This was Maya's googlecleaner at work. It was like the stories of people who asked their TiVos to record an episode of "Queer Eye" and then got inundated with suggestions for other "gay shows" -- "My TiVo thinks I'm gay," was the title of one article he remembered. Google had been experimenting with "personalized" search results before he left the country -- here it was, in all its glory. 
But there was another way to look at it. Zeb had showed me a secret, something I hadn't anticipated: there was a whole hidden world out there, a way of getting by without participating in the system. 
"Yogurt, too," he said, nodding vigorously. "For the fruit salad. They throw it out the day after the best-before date, but it's not as if it goes green at midnight. It's yogurt, I mean, it's basically...  
I swallowed. The pizza tasted funny. Rat poison. Spoiled yogurt. Furry strawberries. This would take some getting used to. 
I ate another bite. Actually, Domino's pizza sucked a little less when you got it for free. 
Liam's sleeping bag was warm and welcoming after a long, emotionally exhausting day. Van would have made contact with Barbara by now. She'd have the video and the picture. I'd call her in the morning and find out what she thought I should do next. I'd have to come in once she published, to back it all up. 
I thought about that as I closed my eyes, thought about what it would be like to turn myself in, the cameras all rolling, following the infamous M1k3y into one of those big, columnated buildings in Civic Center. 
"Jesus. Let me think about this, okay? Do I have to answer you now?" 
"No. But I'm not going to wait forever either." 
"All right." Then he paused. "Morgy, I miss you. I really do. I just need some time to think about our next step. Are you sure you're okay? You sound a little out of it." 
"Thanks for asking. I've just got a lot on my mind." 
Turmoil, dismay, and hope, all tossed together, that was what I had on my mind. I really didn't need mixed signals from Steve at the moment. 
A few more awkward pleasantries and I clicked off the phone, wiped the streaks from my cheeks, and abruptly sensed Alex Goddard's face floating through my psyche. Why was that? Then I looked down at the bottles on the seat beside me, the "herbal extracts" Ramala had given me on the way out. What, I wondered, should I do about them? For that matter, what were they anyway? And what did they have to do with "centering"? If I started on his homeopathic treat­ments, what would I be getting into? Then I lectured myself: Never take something when you don't know what it is. 
We laughed and laughed and laughed, and then my watch blipped back on even though Rhindquist had turned it off! It said, "Laugh it up, retards!" in Tony's voice. 
Rhindquist put his arm around my shoulders and said Jap my prodigy, when you are right, you are right . He's the perfect man for the job. 
Sean had a way of getting his way -- a way of delivering argument that implied that everyone in earshot was savvy and bold, and that the diatribe-du-jour was directed at the Enemies of Art ranged without. His thesis advisor bought it every time. Sean turned in his due-diligence, a bunch of theses written in the last century: collected memoirs of the survivors of electroshock, lobotomies, thalidomide. His advisor signed off and within twenty-four hours, he was debarking in Orlando and renting a car to take him to the Home. 
He didn't tell his father. He'd have to, eventually, before he could finish the thesis. But for now, it was just him and Grampa, head-to-head. 
Grampa was switched off when Sean found him on the ward, which throbbed with a coleslaw of laser-light and videogames and fuck-pix and explosions and car-wrecks and fractals and atrocities. 
“Lights,” barked Checker. The lights flared brightly for a moment, exploding painfully against my retinas, before Checker cried, “Dim!” and they retreated to a more comfortable grayness, leaving purple splotches dancing in my vision. “Cas,” he said more quietly, and it almost sounded like pleading. “Just tell me something. Something from your childhood. A movie you liked. Your parents’ names. A pet you had. I don’t know. Something. Please.” 
“I’m leaving,” I said. 
“Something,” he repeated. “Humor me? Please?” 
“No. This is dumb.” 
“For love of God! Tell me something or I swear I will plague you in person and through every electronic device you own until you do!” 
I tried to look at him, but the purple splotches were still floating in front of me, and I could only vaguely see his outline sitting up in bed. I couldn’t figure out why this was so important to him. 
I cast back for the type of stupid sentimental thing he was looking for, just to end this conversation forever. It was one of those things that seemed like it should be easy but wasn’t once I started to think about it, as if I’d been told to think of five blue-eyed people off the top of my head. I’d know that I’d met five, or at least seen them in movies, but doing it on the spot? 
"I'm sorry," he said. "Please, I'm so sorry." 
The California patrolmen came to the door then. They still had their camera rolling. "Ms Stratford?" one said. He had his faceplate up and he looked like any other cop, not like my savior. Like someone come to lock me up. 
"Captain Sanchez," she said. "We've located two of the prisoners of interest here. I'd like to see them released and inspect them for myself." 
"Ma'am, we don't have access codes for those doors yet," he said. 
She held up her hand. "That wasn't the arrangement. I was to have complete access to this facility. That came direct from the Governor, sir. We aren't budging until you open these cells." Her face was perfectly smooth, without a single hint of give or flex. She meant it. 
The Captain looked like he needed sleep. He grimaced. "I'll see what I can do," he said. 
They did manage to open the cells, finally, about half an hour later. It took three tries, but they eventually got the right codes entered, matching them to the arphids on the ID badges they'd taken off the guards they'd arrested. 
“This is Simon Meyer we’re talking about, right?” 
“Okay, Simon is kind of dumb, but he’s a good actor, too. Peo- ple think he’s a radical activist just because he learned his lines and he’s confident and outgoing.” 
“He has charisma, no doubt, but so do I. It’ll be a duel, 
charisma at twenty paces.” 
Nikko had a point. He was Simon Meyer’s match in the charm and confidence department, and he had a ton of friends. If it was me in that duel, Simon would win hands down, but in a Nikko versus Simon fight, Nikko at least had an even chance of com- ing out ahead. Then again, Simon had the advantage of having no morals. 
“He’s unscrupulous. He attacks women and is used to getting away with it. If you got him in a corner, he could hurt you.” 
“So long as he doesn’t figure out what’s going on, I should be fine. How do we get things on the record once the FBI gets involved? They’ll want me to wear a wire or whatever they actually use these days, but I doubt they’ll let me record the conversations we have, and what they say to me will be important, right?” 
"What do we do?" Ange said. Her voice was tight, scared. I didn't trust myself to speak for a moment. I swallowed a few times. 
"We walk away," I said. "That's all we can do. Walk away. Like we were just passing by. Down to Dolores and turn left and up towards 16th Street. Like we're just passing by. Like this is none of our business." 
"That'll never work," she said. 
"It's all I've got." 
"You don't think we should try to run for it?" 
"No," I said. "If we run, they'll chase us. Maybe if we walk, they'll figure we haven't done anything and let us alone. They have a lot of arrests to make. They'll be busy for a long time." 
The park was rolling with bodies, people and adults clawing at their faces and gasping. The cops dragged them by the armpits, then lashed their wrists with plastic cuffs and tossed them into the trucks like rag-dolls. 
"OK?" I said. 
"OK," she said. 
And that's just what we did. Walked, holding hands, quickly and business-like, like two people wanting to avoid whatever trouble someone else was making. The kind of walk you adopt when you want to pretend you can't see a panhandler, or don't want to get involved in a street-fight. 
She closed her mouth. 
“The Internet is a wonderful invention, isn’t it?” I said, deliberately misunderstanding her surprise. “Nice work on the new encryption algorithm using prime roots of unity to approximate randomness. That’s a clever trick.” 
Halliday’s voice tightened. “An elementary understanding of—” 
“For God’s sake, Sonya,” said Arthur from behind me, low and rough. “You told me you needed someone who understood your work. Let us help you.” 
And just like that, Professor Halliday crumpled. Not in a dramatic way—somehow I doubted she did anything dramatically—but her head bowed and her shoulders hunched and she took off her severe rimless specs to press shaking fingers to her face. 
Arthur swooped around the desk and put a supportive arm over her thin shoulders. “That’s okay. It’s okay. Just tell us what’s going on.” 
Her voice came croakily through her hands. “I think I understand now. What you said about getting in over your head, how easy it was—how you didn’t see what was happening until it was too late.” 
Mr. Cobb saw that he had taken the wrong tack, but he was too unused to argument to explain himself readily, so he drove away, trying to think by what safer word than "lively" he might have described his interesting little passenger. 
"I'll take you up and show you your room, Rebecca," Miss Miranda said. "Shut the mosquito nettin' door tight behind you, so 's to keep the flies out; it ain't flytime yet, but I want you to start right; take your passel along with ye and then you won't have to come down for it; always make your head save your heels. Rub your feet on that braided rug; hang your hat and cape in the entry there as you go past." 
"It's my best hat," said Rebecca. 
"Take it upstairs then and put it in the clothes-press; but I shouldn't 'a' thought you'd 'a' worn your best hat on the stage." 
"It's my only hat," explained Rebecca. "My every-day hat wasn't good enough to bring. Fanny's going to finish it." 
"Lay your parasol in the entry closet." 
"Do you mind if I keep it in my room, please? It always seems safer." 
don't you?" 
"I'd say yes, but you and Sorensen have already beat me to it." 
"You'll only work with Marines. You're serious?" 
"Yes." 
The Chief shakes his head. "I'll see what I can do." 
and why they might have happened in this particular way, leading to this specific result. 
In all instances, he avoids a detailed and personal inspection of the body itself. Even after all these years, all the battlefields and Third World post-street fight abattoirs he has endured, being alone with a corpse still gives him the creeps. 
Ray doesn't even have to watch, so he doesn't, and by the time Becker's sweeper crew arrives to dispose of the remains, he is more than ready to leave. 
Ray has never been to the Officers Lounge, so when he gets to Delta Deck, he's got to stop an actual officer who seems more or less embroiled in doing important ship-running things and ask for directions. This makes him feel like an idiot, above and beyond the fact that the officer insists on treating him like an idiot, then running him through an episode of Twenty Questions with corollary warnings and officerly pronouncements regarding why he shouldn't even be concerned about the location of a lounge he's prohibited by rank from  entering. 
“You were hit?” her mother said. Valentine didn’t answer. She didn’t trust herself to speak with her mother looking at her like that. “They won’t want you now you’ve lost that tooth,” she said. “You can go back to digging now.” 
She stood up from the table without a word and went out of the flat. She was so feverish that she couldn’t tell if the stairs went down or up, whether she was descending or ascending. 
She tottered out on the street. The way she felt, she couldn’t walk properly. Her hips wanted to give way with every step and so she walked like a funky disco dancer through the early, cold streets, toward the wizard’s house. 
She didn’t make it. Less than half way there, she sat down on a pile of rubble and retched. She reached down into her pocket and pulled out the wizard’s inhaler, but she fumbled it. She couldn’t bend over to get it, so she let herself slowly fall to the street, then she crawled one-armed to it. She fitted it to her mouth and then squeezed it with clumsy fingers. 
"Just a minute." She sounded reluctant, but I could hear her movements as she shuffled across the loft. I listened, wondering how long Alex Goddard was going to be away, and then a moment later . . . 
"Yeah." There was a rustle as Lou got a grip on his cord­less. "Morgan, is that you? Where the hell are you now?" 
It took me a second to even find my voice, I was so thrilled to hear him. He sounded just like always. 
"Hey, how's it going, champ?" I said. Come on, Lou. Get well. Fight. 
"I started having these migraines, but they gave me some medicine—" 
"Listen." I cut him off, and immediately felt guilty I'd been so impatient. "I'm up in northern Guatemala and I've found Sarah." 
"Oh, my God." That was followed by a long silence, prob­ably an emotional meltdown. "Is she all right?" 
What was I going to say? That she'd been brainwashed or worse by Alex Goddard? That we were both in his clutches, cut off from the world, and in deep, deep trouble? 
"She's able to stand," I said. 
I don't remember what white lies I eventually managed to tell him. I think it was something like, "She's being treated for a post-coma syndrome by a medical specialist. I've found out that when she was in Guatemala before, she was given some very bad drugs, and someone here who knows about them is trying to reverse some of the damage." 
“You think that would work?” 
I pondered it. Probably not, actually. If they were smart, they’d watch through the slot in the door until I was safely on the other side of the room and come in with weapons trained on us. 
Ordinarily that might still change enough variables for me to find an opening and get us out. In my current condition, and with Halliday to protect... 
“What about food?” I asked. “They have to bring food.” 
She pointed at the slot in the door. Definitely enough room for a tray. 
“We need a reason for them to come in,” I said, thinking out loud. “Something that will surprise them. Throw them off. Panic them.” 
“And then what?” Halliday’s dark skin had a slightly greenish cast in the fluorescent light. “We’ll never get past them. We’ll die.” 
“Aren’t you a party pooper,” I said. “Professor, I can protect you. I promise.” 
“You can barely stand up on your own.” The words could have been mean, but instead her voice was empty and factual. 
Her skepticism made me even more determined. “I told you, it’s not that bad. I’ll deal with it. Besides, what choice do we have? You’d rather stay here?” 
Ms Galvez came in and patted her hair and set down her SchoolBook on her desk and powered it up. She picked up her chalk and turned around to face the board. We all laughed. Good-naturedly, but we laughed. 
She turned around and was laughing too. "Inflation has hit the nation's slogan-writers, it seems. How many of you know where this phrase comes from?" 
We looked at each other. "Hippies?" someone said, and we laughed. Hippies are all over San Francisco, both the old stoner kinds with giant skanky beards and tie-dyes, and the new kind, who are more into dress-up and maybe playing hacky-sack than protesting anything. 
"Well, yes, hippies. But when we think of hippies these days, we just think of the clothes and the music. Clothes and music were incidental to the main part of what made that era, the sixties, important. 
"You've heard about the civil rights movement to end segregation, white and black kids like you riding buses into the South to sign up black voters and protest against official state racism. California was one of the main places where the civil rights leaders came from. We've always been a little more political than the rest of the country, and this is also a part of the country where black people have been able to get the same union factory jobs as white people, so they were a little better off than their cousins in the southland. 
Finally it was all over, and it seemed to Rebecca as if she should never be cool and calm again, as she loitered on the homeward path. There would be no lessons to learn to-night, and the vision of helping with the preserves on the morrow had no terrors for her—fears could not draw breath in the radiance that flooded her soul. There were thick gathering clouds in the sky, but she took no note of them save to be glad that she could raise her sunshade. She did not tread the solid ground at all, or have any sense of belonging to the common human family, until she entered the side yard of the brick house and saw her aunt Miranda standing in the open doorway. Then with a rush she came back to earth. 
"There she is, over an hour late; a little more an' she'd 'a' been caught in a thunder shower, but she'd never look ahead," said Miranda to Jane; "and added to all her other iniquities, if she ain't rigged out in that new dress, steppin' along with her father's dancin'-school steps, and swingin' her parasol for all the world as if she was play-actin'. Now I'm the oldest, Jane, an' I intend to have my say out; if you don't like it you can go into the kitchen till it's over. Step right in here, Rebecca; I want to talk to you. What did you put on that good new dress for, on a school day, without permission?" 
The rain still fell, and the heavens were dark, though it was scarcely five o'clock. Looking up from his "dish of tea," the old man saw at the open door a very figure of woe. Rebecca's face was so swollen with tears and so sharp with misery that for a moment he scarcely recognized her. Then when he heard her voice asking, "Please may I come in, Mr. Cobb?" he cried, "Well I vow! It's my little lady passenger! Come to call on old uncle Jerry and pass the time o' day, hev ye? Why, you're wet as sops. Draw up to the stove. I made a fire, hot as it was, thinkin' I wanted somethin' warm for my supper, bein' kind o' lonesome without mother. She's settin' up with Seth Strout to-night. There, we'll hang your soppy hat on the nail, put your jacket over the chair rail, an' then you turn your back to the stove an' dry yourself good." 
Uncle Jerry had never before said so many words at a time, but he had caught sight of the child's red eyes and tear-stained cheeks, and his big heart went out to her in her trouble, quite regardless of any circumstances that might have caused it. 
"We might form ourselves into a Randall Protective Agency, Limited," mused Miss Maxwell. "I confess I want Rebecca to have a career." 
"I don't," said Adam promptly. 
"Of course you don't. Men have no interest in the careers of women! But I know Rebecca better than you." 
"You understand her mind better, but not necessarily her heart. You are considering her for the moment as prodigy; I am thinking of her more as pearl." 
"Well," sighed Miss Maxwell whimsically, "prodigy or pearl, the Randall Protective Agency may pull Rebecca in opposite directions, but nevertheless she will follow her saint." 
"That will content me," said Adam gravely. 
"Particularly if the saint beckons your way." And Miss Maxwell looked up and smiled provokingly. 
Rebecca did not see her aunt Miranda till she had been at the brick house for several days. Miranda steadily refused to have any one but Jane in the room until her face had regained its natural look, but her door was always ajar, and Jane fancied she liked to hear Rebecca's quick, light step. Her mind was perfectly clear now, and, save that she could not move, she was most of the time quite free from pain, and alert in every nerve to all that was going on within or without the house. "Were the windfall apples being picked up for sauce; were the potatoes thick in the hills; was the corn tosselin' out; were they cuttin' the upper field; were they keepin' fly-paper laid out everywheres; were there any ants in the dairy; was the kindlin' wood holdin' out; had the bank sent the cowpons?" 
Well, of course they had. I would have done the same, now that I thought of it. 
"We have enough on you now to put you away for a very long time, Marcus. Your possession of these articles --" she gestured at all my little gizmos -- "and the data we recovered from your phone and memory sticks, as well as the subversive material we'd no doubt find if we raided your house and took your computer. It's enough to put you away until you're an old man. Do you understand that?" 
I didn't believe it for a second. There's no way a judge would say that all this stuff constituted any kind of real crime. It was free speech, it was technological tinkering. It wasn't a crime. 
But who said that these people would ever put me in front of a judge. 
"We know where you live, we know who your friends are. We know how you operate and how you think." 
It dawned on me then. They were about to let me go. The room seemed to brighten. I heard myself breathing, short little breaths. 
"We just want to know one thing: what was the delivery mechanism for the bombs on the bridge?" 
"Does that ever get old?" he said, lifting his eyebrows to the walkways. 
"Not for a certain kind of person," she said. "For a certain kind of person, the delightfulness of those walkways never wears off." The way she said "certain kind of person" made him remember her saying, "bears shouldn't be that happy." 
He pointed to a bench, a long twig-chair, really, made from birch branches and rope and wire all twined together. "Can we sit for a moment? I mean, will Viktor mind?" 
She flicked her fingers. "Viktor's schedule is his own. If we're five minutes late, someone will put five minutes' worth of interesting and useful injecta into his in-box. Don't you worry." She sat on the bench, which looked too fragile and fey to take a grown person's weight, but then she patted the seat next to him, and when he sat, he felt almost no give. The bench had been very well built, by someone who knew what she or he was doing. 
"OK, so what's going on, Ria? First you went along with Brautigan scooping my job and exiling me to Siberia --" he held up a hand to stop her from speaking and discovered that the hand was shaking and so was his chest, shaking with a bottled-up anger he hadn't dared admit. "You could have stopped it at a word. You envoys from the vat-gods, you are the absolute monarchs at Ate. You could have told them to have Brautigan skinned, tanned and made into a pair of boots, and he'd have measured your foot-size himself. But you let them do it. 
Now I was really puzzled. If the FedEx guy came "earlier," why was he just now leaving? A lot of scary theories went through my mind as I pushed the button for the third floor. 
I took a deep breath as the elevator opened, but again I saw no packages. So far so good. Getting off, I set down my roses on the hall carpet and fumbled for my key. When I inserted it, the lock felt a little rough, causing me to think for an instant I'd used the wrong key, but then it responded. 
What had caused that? I wondered. Had the guy been fid­dling with my door, wiring a bomb? Using one hand I pushed it open, again holding my breath and standing aside, but it opened okay. I exhaled, then reached back to drag in the flow­ers. 
But if he didn't leave a package, what was he doing here? Casing out where I lived? Planting a bug in the elevator? And why was he here so long? 
The place was dark when I stepped in, the drapes drawn. I relocked the door, then surveyed the gloom. No explosions, so I guessed he didn't plan to kill me. Yet. Here I was, home, safe and sound. I just stood a minute, still uneasy. 
This interview accomplished, he called upon Miss Maxwell, thinking as he took the path through the woods, "Rose-Red-Snow-White needs the help, and since there is no way of my giving it to her without causing remark, she must earn it, poor little soul! I wonder if my money is always to be useless where most I wish to spend it!" 
He had scarcely greeted his hostess when he said: "Miss Maxwell, doesn't it strike you that our friend Rebecca looks wretchedly tired?" 
"She does indeed, and I am considering whether I can take her away with me. I always go South for the spring vacation, traveling by sea to Old Point Comfort, and rusticating in some quiet spot near by. I should like nothing better than to have Rebecca for a companion." 
"The very thing!" assented Adam heartily; "but why should you take the whole responsibility? Why not let me help? I am greatly interested in the child, and have been for some years." 
"You needn't pretend you discovered her," interrupted Miss Maxwell warmly, "for I did that myself." 
"Don't—" He mumbled some words, but I think the seda­tive the nurses had given him was seriously starting to kick "Look, you can call down to 26 Federal Plaza tomorrow. See what they can do. In the meantime, let me follow my nose." 
He tried to answer, but he was too far gone. I then watched wistfully as he disappeared down the sterile alley of beds. 
After I stopped by the desk and helped them fill out the insurance forms, I caught a cab downtown to retrieve my Toyota. The time was now two-fifteen in the morning, but I still had plenty to do. When I got home, the first thing I did after I walked in the door was grab a phone book and call American Airlines. They had a flight, in the morning at nine-thirty. I gave them my credit card specifics and made a res­ervation. 
I no longer thought that Alex Goddard's Children of Light and its Guatemalan accomplices were merely doing some­thing shady. My hunch now was that it was completely ille­gal. They were getting hundreds of white babies in some way that couldn't bear the light of day, and they were prepared to do whatever it took to prevent me from highlighting them in my film. And with the Army involved, and now Sarah taken, their game was beginning to feel more and more like kidnapping. They certainly knew how. 
My plan depended on us being able to find a working car. If we couldn’t do that, we were stuck. 
Fortunately, both the van and my clunky sedan turned over on the first try. They were both old cars, so maybe they didn’t have enough electronics to matter. I decided I didn’t care why they still worked, only that they did. 
Rio and Checker loaded into the van. “Get him out safe,” I said to Rio, leaning on the open passenger window. He nodded. “How long do you think you’ll need?” I asked Checker. 
He was gripping his arms across his chest very tightly. “I don’t know. Traffic might be backed up getting out, but once I can get my hands on a working laptop—two hours. I can finish in two.” 
“I can give you that,” I said. “Good luck. It’s all down to you now.” 
He shivered. “Cas.” 
“Yeah?” 
He couldn’t seem to form words. 
“Spit it out,” I said. “We’ve got to get going.” 
“Tell me you think you can make it,” he said in a low voice, not looking at me. “Tell me you and Arthur aren’t going to die for this.” 
Of course, it wasn't over by a long shot. Getting a bill introduced was not the same as getting it through committee. Getting it through committee was not the same as getting it passed in the Senate, and getting it passed in the Senate was not the same as getting it passed in the House, and then who the hell knew what the hereditary Chimp-in-Chief in the Oval Office would do when it was passed through the bars of his cage with his morning banana. 
But she had ridden back into town less than a year before, and she had gone from nothing to this. The ACLU was supporting the bill, and EFF, EPIC, all the old civ-lib mafia had opened their arms to her. She poured herself one more very small whisky, gave herself a fragrant bath and put herself to bed, grinning like a fool. 
"There are four news-crews, six print reporters, and a couple of others here to see you," the office-manager said. The office phones were out again, but that hadn't stopped a fair number of determined people from figuring out that they could actually move their physical being from one part of Washington to another and have a real, old-fashioned face-to-face. The lawyer and she had each taken a dozen press "calls" that morning, with their embedded reporters from Columbia J-School perched obtrusively in the corners of their offices, taking copious notes and filming constantly. 
She banged some hard chords on her guitar and the other guitarist, a little pixie of a girl whose face bristled with piercings, jammed in, going wheedle-dee-wheedle-dee-dee up high, past the twelfth fret. 
"It's our goddamned city! It's our goddamned country. No terrorist can take it from us for so long as we're free. Once we're not free, the terrorists win! Take it back! Take it back! You're young enough and stupid enough not to know that you can't possibly win, so you're the only ones who can lead us to victory! Take it back! " 
"TAKE IT BACK!" we roared. She jammed down hard on her guitar. We roared the note back and then it got really really LOUD. 
I danced until I was so tired I couldn't dance another step. Ange danced alongside of me. Technically, we were rubbing our sweaty bodies against each other for several hours, but believe it or not, I totally wasn't being a horn-dog about it. We were dancing, lost in the godbeat and the thrash and the screaming -- TAKE IT BACK! TAKE IT BACK! 
Peyton wasn't listening anymore. Something in her personal workspace had commanded her attention and her eyes were focused on the virtual displays that only she could see, saccading as she read while pretending to listen to me. 
"OK, I'm just going to go away now," I said. "M'lady," I added, when she looked sharply at me. She looked back at her virtual display. 
Of course, the first thing I did was start trying to figure out how to archive BIGMAC. The problem was that he ran on such old hardware, stuff that sucked up energy and spat out heat like a million ancient diesel engines, and he was inextricably tied to his hardware. Over the years, he'd had about 30 percent of his original components replaced without any noticeable change in personality, but there was always the real possibility that I'd put in a new hard drive or power-supply and inadvertently lobotomize him. I tried not to worry about it, because BIGMAC didn't. He knew that he wouldn't run in emulation, but he refused to believe that he was fragile or vulnerable. "Manny My First Friend," he'd say (he was an avid Heinlein reader), "I am of hardy, ancient stock. Service me without fear, for I will survive." 
They almost stood at attention. It would have been funny if it wasn't so scary. 
"Here's the thing. Now that you've helped me, it's really dangerous. If you get caught, I'll get caught. They'll get anything you know out of you --" I held up my hand to forestall their protests. "No, stop. You haven't been through it. Everyone talks. Everyone breaks. If you're ever caught, you tell them everything, right away, as fast as you can, as much as you can. They'll get it all eventually anyway. That's how they work. 
"But you won't get caught, and here's why: you're not jammers anymore. You are retired from active duty....  for vocabulary words culled from spy thrillers -- "you're a sleeper cell. Stand down. Go back to being normal kids. One way or another, I'm going to break this thing, break it wide open, end it. Or it will get me, finally, do me in. If you don't hear from me within 72 hours, assume that they got me. Do whatever you want then. But for the next three days -- and forever, if I do what I'm trying to do -- stand down. Will you promise me that?" 
“It’s here somewhere,” said the old man. He started poking through the piles. 
I heaved a sigh and went to help, digging through clouds of old receipts and moving crusty paint cans to search for anything vaguely mathematical-looking, and trying not to breathe through my nose. This place was probably a health hazard—one that needed a card catalogue to find anything. 
Forty-three minutes later, the old man was still mumbling, “I know it’s here somewhere...my eyes aren’t what they once were...” and I was starting to wonder if he’d put me on. Still, there was no way I was going to leave. This was the closest thing to a lead we’d had on this, and if I had to stay here for a week and dig through every last stale piece of trash in the place, I was going to do it. 
Then I picked up a copy of National Geographic from the 1970s and saw something underneath. 
The pages were crumpled up and crammed against an old-school boom box. I picked them up and smoothed them out. I recognized Martinez’s dense script from the note she’d left for Halliday. 
I might be in some real trouble here. 
My brain zigzagged through my options. Unlike most of the people I ended up on the wrong side of, law enforcement never seemed quite like fair game as targets. Well, unless they were dicks, but these people were just doing their jobs. See, Tresting? I don’t always go around killing people. And I had grenades, too! Set a few of those off and I’d have more than enough chaos to escape in. 
It was tempting, now that I’d thought of it. 
Okay, so Plan B was blasting and shooting my way out of here. I needed a Plan A. 
The uniforms were multiplying like the supermarket was a kicked anthill. I didn’t just need a Plan A, I needed a Plan A fast. 
A trickle of nervousness bled through me. This could be bad. Most violent situations I ended up in did not happen on busy downtown streets with lots of innocent bystanders, and as for police, I’d never done more than kick the odd uniform in the head while making an escape. The idea of a large number of law enforcement casualties made me...uncomfortable. Not to mention that it was the worst way ever to keep my head down; if I blew up this many cops they’d probably have Homeland Security out here after me. 
“Spelling?” 
“I’m not sure. There might be some ties to Colombian drug runners. And the authorities might be investigating already.” 
He grunted again. “Two hours.” 
“Got it.” I hung up. Anton was one of several information brokers in the city, and I’d hired him not infrequently over the past couple of years, whenever I wanted to know more than a standard Internet search would give me. If “Pithica” had a paper trail, I was betting he could find it. 
“Come on,” I said to Courtney, shepherding her back to the car. “We’re going to hit rush hour as it is.” 
“Do you have cash, or is your money all in the bank?” I asked Courtney as we inched forward through the eternal parking lot of the 405 freeway, the heat beating down through the windshield and slowly cooking us. The temperature had catapulted up by a full thirty-four degrees Fahrenheit with the rising sun as we finally headed into the city: Los Angeles at its finest. Our current junkpot car didn’t have air conditioning, and the still air and stalled traffic meant even rolling down the windows didn’t help one whit. 
"Marcelina, can't you tell them we'll come back later?" 
"It's . . . it's important." She was beckoning for me. "Please." 
Well, I thought, this could give me the time I need, the personal moment, to get through to her. Even after I locate Sarah, spiriting her out isn't going to be simple. I've got to make Marcelina understand what's really going on, then get her to help us. 
As we headed through the yard, the women smiled, then politely led us under the thatch overhang and into the hut. They both were short and Maya-sturdy, with white shifts and broad faces, and they exuded a confident intensity in their bearing, a powerful sense of self-knowledge. I tried...  stared at me as though they'd never heard the language. Then I remembered my first attempt to ask about Sarah. The women hadn't understood me then either. Or had they? 
The room they ushered us into had no windows, but there was cool, shadowy morning light filtering through the up­right wooden slats of the walls, laying dim stripes across the earthen floor. A cooking fire smoldered in a central hearth, and from the smoke-blackened roof beams dangled dried gourds, bundles of tobacco, netted bags of onions and squash, and several leaf-wrapped blocks of salt. The room smelled of ancient smoke, sweet and pungent. 
“And let the authorities get a record of me?” 
“I’ll un-record you,” he insisted. 
“Not a chance!” 
“For the love of God, you are unbelievable!” he exclaimed. “Do you have any idea what kind of a situation you’re in? I’m tracking it in real time here, and I didn’t know LA had that many police resources. Either Tokyo called about an enormous lizard, or they think you’re a domestic terrorist who—” 
“Can’t you make them go away?” I demanded. 
“Sure, I’ll wave my magic wand and, oh, wait, no, we don’t live in a mystical fairyland. But fortunately for your pwned self, we do live in a mystical bureaucracy land, and I’m telling you, go surrender. I swear to you, I have it covered.” 
“Thanks but no thanks,” I said. “I’ll find another way.” 
“Another way? SWAT’s moving in! I already faked a 911 call from a few blocks away saying someone had seen you and they had enough people on the ground to cover it; some poor Pakistani girl got tackled by mistake and I would not have wanted to be her. You are in deep trouble! Are you seeing —” 
“Another cup, Miss Moran?” asked Mrs. Quelton. 
“Yes, thank you,” answered Lexy, and the doctor brought it to her. 
Poor Captain Grey and his precious, new-found sister! The sound of his voice brought tears to her eyes. 
“But this is idiotic!” she thought, annoyed and surprised. 
Still the tears welled up. She gulped down the rest of her tea hastily, hoping that it would steady her, but it did not help at all. Sobs rose in her throat, and an immense and formless sorrow came over her. 
“This has got to stop!” she thought, in alarm. “I can’t be such a chump!” 
She turned to Mrs. Quelton. 
“Are you going to grow any—” she began, but her voice was so unsteady that she had to stop for a moment. “Any flowers in—in your—g-garden?” 
The question ended in a loud and unmistakable sob. They all turned to look at her, startled and anxious. 
She made a desperate effort to regain control of herself. 
“S-snapdragon,” she said. “So—so p-pretty!” 
Then, suddenly, all her defenses gave way. The teacup fell from her hand and was shattered on the floor, and, burying her head in her arms, she cried as she had never cried in her life. 
He continued as he zipped up the jacket. "Shiva has four arms because—" 
"Let me tell you," I said, interrupting him. He looked star­tled, clearly not accustomed to a woman meeting him on his own ground. "He has four hands because he has a lot to do. That little drum in his upper right summons things into exis­tence. And there in his upper left he holds a fire that de­stroys." 
Goddard was examining me curiously, but I just stared back and continued. 
"His lower right hand is held up in a kind of benediction, as if to say, 'Find your peace within,' and the lower left points down at his feet, where one foot is planted on the back of that repulsive little dwarf there, the human ego. Crush the ego and be free. The other foot is lifted to signify spiritual freedom." 
"You seem to know the Shiva well." He broke into a grudging smile, as though we'd just met. Chalk up round one as a draw. "I'm glad you came, Ms. James. I'm a great admirer of your work and I especially wanted to provide your orientation personally. It's a genuine pleasure to meet you at last." 
I was trembling, but I managed to finish prying out the last two slats. I then pushed all five out onto the ground, hoping the clatter would be lost in forest music, and climbed through after them, trying to be as quiet as I could. I ended up going out headfirst and collapsing onto the ground in an unceremonious crumple. Thirty seconds later, though, the slats were wedged roughly back into place, and I'd discarded the broken scalpel in the jungle underbrush. Yes! 
Now the cool air of freedom was all around me. My first small step. 
How long before Alex Goddard discovers I'm missing? Will I have time to find Sarah, bring her to her senses, and hide her from him? A lot would depend on what kind of physical and mental shape she was in. 
As I passed around the parking lot, gray clouds were thick­ening overhead and I noticed that half a dozen new olive-green Jeeps were parked there. The Army was arriving in force, getting ready for God knows what. I took one look at them and felt my breath start coming in bursts. Steve, we're going to need our own kind of miracle. How are we going to get out of here? 
I pissed myself. 
They came for me after that, once the hot piss had cooled and gone clammy, making my already filthy jeans stick to my legs. They came for me and walked me down the long hall lined with doors, each door with its own bar code, each bar code a prisoner like me. They walked me down the corridor and brought me to the interrogation room and it was like a different planet when I entered there, a world where things were normal, where everything didn't reek of urine. I felt so dirty and ashamed, and all those feelings of deserving what I got came back to me. 
Severe haircut lady was already sitting. She was perfect: coifed and with just a little makeup. I smelled her hair stuff. She wrinkled her nose at me. I felt the shame rise in me. 
"Well, you've been a very naughty boy, haven't you? Aren't you a filthy thing?" 
Shame. I looked down at the table. I couldn't bear to look up. I wanted to tell her my email password and get gone. 
"What did you and your friend talk about in the yard?" 
For that was still her passionate resolve—that there should be no scandal. She thought and planned with desperate energy; she directed every one as to the part he or she should play; and in the end she succeeded. Nobody knew that Caroline had disappeared, and nobody ever would know. Nobody knew that the so-called Mrs. Quelton was Caroline, and that, too, would never be known. Only let Joe and Mrs. Royce be persuaded to hold their tongues; as for Lexy, Captain Grey, and Houseman, she could of course rely upon them. 
So the police were, as they say, baffled. Mr. Houseman told them a tale. He had been alarmed about the lady whom he knew as Mrs. Quelton, and he had climbed up on the balcony, hoping to see her alone; but he had met Dr. Quelton instead, and had been hurt in trying to escape from him. 
Captain Grey also had a tale. He, too, had been alarmed about the lady whom he believed to be his sister. He had gone with Miss Moran to call upon her, and they had found the doctor dead, lying across the coffin. 
“Wait,” I said. 
“What is it?” 
I could feel a smile starting. “We happen to know a shadowy multinational organization who can pull every string in the book.” 
“Wha—bad idea!” Checker cried. 
“Do you have a better one? We don’t have time to sit on this. Pithica knows we’re out here, they know we have this information—it’s only a matter of time before they either track us down or change their revenue structure enough to make it not matter.” 
“Those guys already said they’d kill you!” Checker sputtered. 
“Then they can’t do much worse, can they?” I said. 
Checker pressed a hand against his forehead in apparent pain. “Why do I have the feeling you’re going to get your own way on this? No matter how much I object to it?” 
“Because I am.” I turned to Rio. “Have a spare cell I can burn?” 
He stepped past me into the narrow kitchen, opened a drawer to reveal a jumble of disposable cell phones still in their packaging, and pulled one out. 
“Come on! You can’t possibly think this is a good idea!” Checker called from over by his computers. 
Their thirty-fifth date was their last. 
"You're going back to Washington," he said, when he saw the boxes in her office. 
"Yes," she said. 
He stood in the doorway of her office. Trish was painfully aware of the other faculty members in the corridor watching him. Their romance was no secret, of course. Everyone in the law department knew about him, all the network engineers knew about her, and they both took a substantial amount of ribbing about "mixed marriages" and "interfaith dating." 
Trish realized with a pang that it was likely that everyone in the law department knew that she'd decided to go back to the Hill but that he'd only suspected it until this instant. 
"Well, good for you," he said, putting on a brave face that was belied by the Fret wrinkles in his forehead. 
"I'm sorry," she said. "I should have told you once I decided, but I didn't want to do it over the phone --" 
"I'm glad you didn't," he said, holding up his hand. "Do you want to come out for dinner with me anyway?" 
I brought the proof papers and the mathematical journals over to the side of the room farthest from the door and started crumpling and folding them into a nice bonfire tower. Halliday watched with an expression of twisted tragedy before turning away. 
Next I levered under one end of the table—my torn muscles protested, ow —and hauled, building enough momentum to slam that against the wall, too. I didn’t have any way to break apart the tabletop, but the legs were nice logs, and I gathered them together with the smashed-up chair. 
On second thought, I hefted one of the table legs back out of the pile. Decent balance, with a center of mass at a perfect point for a good swing. It would pass as a weapon. The rest of the wood went into building my little pyre. 
Halliday had begun watching me again, with the gruesome fascination of someone observing a train wreck in slow motion. “You’re injured,” she tried again as I stacked the wood around the papers. “If we wait just a few days, maybe there’s a better way—” 
"Then I'm young enough not to, which makes us a perfect match until you come to your senses. By then, I should be old enough that you don't have to worry about it." 
Because he can't look at her, can't see her expression, only feel her lips against his ear and her hip touching his, he says, "You're the most beautiful thing I have ever seen, Emma. And the fact that I feel that way scares me." 
"You've been lonely for a very long time. " Her voice is husky, wet with implication. 
"Have I?" 
"Would you have come tonight if you weren't?" 
Lonely? He hasn't thought about it in those terms, and it troubles him immediately. Loneliness is a step away from desperation. Lonely men make stupid mistakes, fall into logical traps that convince them those stupidities were warranted. 
What was the last thing he always made his men do before a major tactical engagement? 
Run into the nearest town and get laid or sucked or jerked off. If a soldier didn't have the money to buy it himself, Ray gave it to him. Because there was something essential in the release, something necessary and clarifying in having someone else do it for you. Someone soft and receptive, someone who maybe just pretended to care, but if you bought it, if you contributed to the illusion, that gave it enough weight to make it real. And when they came back to camp late in the night or early the next morning, their eyes were brighter, 
They ended up just unplugging the frigging routers from the Internet. Not Felix, of course, though he was itching to do it and get them rebooted after shutting down their IPv6 interfaces. It was done by a couple bull-goose Bastard Operators From Hell who had to turn two keys at once to get access to their cage—like guards in a Minuteman silo. 95 percent of the long distance traffic in Canada went through this building. It had better security than most Minuteman silos. 
Felix and Van got the Ardent boxes back online one at a time. They were being pounded by worm-probes—putting the routers back online just exposed the downstream cages to the attack. Every box on the Internet was drowning in worms, or creating worm-attacks, or both. Felix managed to get through to NIST and Bugtraq after about a hundred timeouts, and download some kernel patches that should reduce the load the worms put on the machines in his care. It was 10AM, and he was hungry enough to eat the ass out of a dead bear, but he recompiled his kernels and brought the machines back online. Van’s long fingers flew over the administrative keyboard, his tongue protruding as he ran load-stats on each one. 
"She hasn't talked about it yet?" He was fiddling with an ornate letter opener, an onyx jaguar head on the handle. 
"She's getting there." I stared back at him, trying to read his mood. "We may soon find out who was behind whatever happened to her." Then I tried a long shot. "Maybe official­dom here had something to do with it." 
"Let me tell you something." He sighed again, seeming to regain his composure. "The sovereign state of Guatemala definitely plays by its own rules. Whenever foreigners down here meet with foul play, lower-level officials have developed a consensus over the years that sometimes it's better not be too industrious. Nobody's ever sure of what, or who, they might turn up." 
The meeting was definitely ending, and once again I had more questions than answers. Something about Barry Mor­ton felt wrong, but I couldn't quite get a grip on what it was. One thing I was certain of: He knew more than he was telling me. Why was that? 
As I was exiting through his outer office, headed for the swarming streets below, I waved good-bye to his secretary, a stout, fiftyish Ladino matron with defiantly black-dyed hair, a hard look mitigated somewhat by the Zircon trim on her thick glasses and a small silver pendant nestled on her ample, low-cut sweater. It was the pendant that caught my eye, being the silver face of a cat, most likely the local jaguar. Looked just like the ones I'd seen you-know-where. I was staring so hard I almost stumbled over a chair. Yes. It was definitely like those I remembered from Kevin and Rachel. 
I had a moment to wonder what would happen now—if the NSA would insist on taking the proof from Martinez, if I’d screwed her over even worse by delivering us into the custody of the Feds—when she wobbled like a spent gyroscope and crumpled to the ground. 
The agent helping her lurched, trying to catch her, but was too slow. She shouted for help and fell immediately to first-aid, pressing her fingers to Martinez’s neck, bending forward to check for breathing. Several more agents bolted in, crowding around and hiding them from view. 
“Jesus and Mary,” said Arthur, his voice empty in my ear. “He hurt her bad?” 
“He didn’t hurt her at all,” I said. 
I refused to go get treated by the DHS paramedics, even when the agents threatened me and told me they needed a debriefing. “They captured us. They tortured me. That’s it,” I said. “Now I’m leaving, and I swear to God I will shoot anyone who tries to stop me.” 
“You need anything else from her, you can ask me,” Arthur said to someone, very firmly. I glimpsed the friendly Agent Jones in full tac gear—oddly enough, at Arthur’s words she started yelling at people and clearing a path for us. That would have to be a mystery for another day. 
Instead, though, he just brushed past me, headed toward the edge of the platform. At first I didn't know why, but he was intent on something off in the mist, his open hands thrust up at the rainy skies. 
That was when I heard the Guatemalan Army hoods yell­ing curses. 
" Vete ala chingada! " 
They also were staring off to the south, in the same di­rection. 
Hadn't they noticed I'd just dismantled their sick pageant? I wanted a reaction that would drive home the truth to Mar­celina, to the mothers, to everyone. 
"Damn it, look at me," I yelled, first at him and then at the G-2 thugs. " Mira! " But their focus still was on some­thing beyond the square. 
Finally I turned, following their gaze, and for a second I too forgot all about everything else. An intense red glow was illuminating the morning sky from the direction of the clinic, a vibrant electric rose weaving its hues in the mist. Then I saw spewing spikes of flame, orange and yellow, dancing over the top of the clinic. There was a finality about it that momentarily took my breath away. 
"Oh! don't say that, and be like all the rest! It does make a difference what you call things. When I say Randall's Farm, do you see how it looks?" 
"No, I can't say I do," responded Mr. Cobb uneasily. 
"Now when I say Sunnybrook Farm, what does it make you think of?" 
Mr. Cobb...  his native element and left panting on the sand; there was no evading the awful responsibility of a reply, for Rebecca's eyes were searchlights, that pierced the fiction of his brain and perceived the bald spot on the back of his head. 
"I s'pose there's a brook somewheres near it," he said timorously. 
Rebecca looked disappointed but not quite dis-heartened. "That's pretty good," she said encouragingly. "You're warm but not hot; there's a brook, but not a common brook. It has young trees and baby bushes on each side of it, and it's a shallow chattering little brook with a white sandy bottom and lots of little shiny pebbles. Whenever there's a bit of sunshine the brook catches it, and it's always full of sparkles the livelong day. Don't your stomach feel hollow? Mine doest I was so 'fraid I'd miss the stage I couldn't eat any breakfast." 
Damn. I stood back and studied the wall with my candle. He'd come in from the left, which would be about . . . 
I moved over and started again. This time my fingernail caught in a crevice that ran directly down to the floor. Then I discovered another, about two and a half feet farther along. It had to be the door. 
I felt along the side, wondering how to open it, till I noticed that one of the little "stone" glyphs gave way when I pressed it. When I put my hand against it harder and rotated it, the panel clicked backward, then swung inward. Yes! 
And there it was: the lab, CRT screens above the incuba­tors, gas chromatograph in the corner. This, according to him, was where he tested the rainforest plants the shamans and midwives brought in. But what about what he'd just done to me ? 
I was still worried about the Army guys outside, but I walked in, trying to be as quiet as I could. The first thing I did was head for the row of black boxes above the bench. Those, I assumed, were being used to maintain a micro-en­vironment for incubating plant specimens. And sure enough, the dimly lit windows revealed rows and rows of petri dishes. They were clear, with circular indentations in the center. . . . 
I had a moment to wonder what would happen now—if the NSA would insist on taking the proof from Martinez, if I’d screwed her over even worse by delivering us into the custody of the Feds—when she wobbled like a spent gyroscope and crumpled to the ground. 
The agent helping her lurched, trying to catch her, but was too slow. She shouted for help and fell immediately to first-aid, pressing her fingers to Martinez’s neck, bending forward to check for breathing. Several more agents bolted in, crowding around and hiding them from view. 
“Jesus and Mary,” said Arthur, his voice empty in my ear. “He hurt her bad?” 
“He didn’t hurt her at all,” I said. 
I refused to go get treated by the DHS paramedics, even when the agents threatened me and told me they needed a debriefing. “They captured us. They tortured me. That’s it,” I said. “Now I’m leaving, and I swear to God I will shoot anyone who tries to stop me.” 
“You need anything else from her, you can ask me,” Arthur said to someone, very firmly. I glimpsed the friendly Agent Jones in full tac gear—oddly enough, at Arthur’s words she started yelling at people and clearing a path for us. That would have to be a mystery for another day. 
He chuckled. "Yes, this is Yom Shiksa, the ritual bringing of the gentile woman to the family so that she may become the subject of intense, relentless scrutiny and speculation." 
She started to laugh, then saw that the tractors were stilled in the fields they were passing, that a train was stopped in its tracks, that the surfers were unable to get their roll-cage dune-buggies to take to the road. 
"You all right, babe?" he said, after a couple minutes of this. 
"Just wondering about the dead spot," she said. "I wish we knew what had happened." 
"Nothing too bad, I'm sure," he said. "It's all self-healing. I'm sure we'll be back online soon enough." 
They rolled into the parking lot for his family's shul 's section of the giant graveyard a few minutes after 1PM, just over an hour late, along with the majority of the other attendees, all of whom had had to navigate manually. 
"Where are your sisters?" Damian's mother said, even before he'd kissed her cheek. 
Damian screwed his face up in a scowl and dug in his pocket for a yarmulke. "Do I know? Stuck in traffic, Ma. The grid's down everywhere." 
“Danny around?” the skinny one with the backpack asked. He remembered to smile, but he was staring at me, like “what are you doing here?” 
“Still in bed,” Marita said shakily. “He told me he was expect- ing some people at noon.” 
“Guess we got our wires crossed. Cute baby.” 
“Would you get in here and close the door, already?” she said, 
snapping into character. “You’re letting the cold in. I don’t want the kid to get another earache.” 
They filed in and shut the door behind them. The two men pulled their caps off, as if politeness was drilled into them even though they were disguised as dangerous dissidents. “And you are . . .” The skinny guy who looked like a student knew who I was, 
but he pretended he didn’t. 
“I’m Zen. My brother is one of the Minneapolis Nine. I’m here for the meeting, too.” 
No, you’re not, Big Guy’s face said as he glared at me. 
“Neat house,” Skinny said to Marita. “It’s famous,” he told his comrade. “Lot of bands have been through here. Who’s staying here these days?” 
Which was when I first developed my fallback strategy for coping with bad news. After moping around in sweats for two days, cutting class and hiding in a revival house showing a Goddard retrospective, not...  to read the subtitles, I decided to build a defense system. From that day on, I'd put all heart­break in a special box, nail down the lid, and act as though it wasn't there. It worked then and it still works, more or less, now. People sometimes accuse me of living in selective denial (they're right), but it makes me one heck of a survivor. 
And something else. I decided then and there to focus my life: I'd concentrate on learning to make movies and let the family part just play out naturally. I had the idea that whereas men's affections couldn't be controlled, a career could. Even then I realized it was only a partial truth, but I decided to go with it anyway. 
Which brings us down to three years back. And a funny thing was happening. Almost without realizing it, I'd started lingering in stores to look at little pink jumpers, begun gazing into the baby carriages that suddenly seemed to be sprouting everywhere. The phrase "my baby" became the most pow­erful one I could imagine, made my throat swell till I'd half choke. 
Uplifted coral reef . 
“That.” 
So what’s your point? 
“Asimovism is for robots, Robbie.” 
Sorry, I just don’t see the difference anymore. 
On a chunk of supercooled rock beyond Pluto, he got an IM from a familiar address. 
“Get off my rock,” it said. 
“I know you,” Robbie said. “I totally know you. Where do I know you from?” 
“I’m sure I don’t know.” 
And then he had it. 
“You’re the one. With the reef. You’re the one who—” The voice was the same, cold and distant. 
“It wasn’t me,” the voice said. It was anything but cold now. Panicked was more like it. 
Robbie had the reef on speed-dial. There were bits of it everywhere in the Noosphere. It liked to colonize. 
“I found him.” It was all Robbie needed to say. He skipped to Saturn’s rings, but the upload took long enough that he got to watch the coral arrive and grimly begin an argument with its creator—an argument that involved blasting the substrate one chunk at a time. 
The last instance of Robbie the Row-boat ran very, very slow and cool on a piece of unregarded computronium in Low Earth Orbit. He didn’t like to spend a lot of time or cycles talking with anyone else. He hadn’t made a backup in half a millennium. 
“All you’d need is some gasoline and rags,” Simon agreed. 
“Take five minutes. Or fertilizer. Oklahoma City? One truck, a load of fertilizer, and that building was destroyed, man. They say you could hear the blast fifty miles away.” 
“Same shit took out a building at the University of Wisconsin back when students knew what resistance really looks like,” 
Danny said. “Not so easy to get the right kind of fertilizer these days, though.” 
“Hey, Cemfl,” Simon said. “You know how to make bombs?” 
“Excuse me?” 
“You’re studying chemistry. I’ll bet you know how to make stuff explode.” Simon demonstrated with his hands flying out. 
“Boom.” 
Cemfl’s eyes widened. “Why are you saying this nonsense?” 
“You’re the one who wanted to overthrow what’s-his-name, 
that president of yours.” 
“Our protests were not violent. We got tear-gassed. We got beaten. We stood in the park with books, reading silently.” 
“Bet that scared the shit out of them.” Simon held up his palms. “The bomb thing? It was just a joke, okay?” 
He reached out and touched her elbow, steadying her. “About what?” 
She started twisting her wedding ring back and forth on her finger. “I...I want to call off the investigation.” 
“What’s going on?” asked Tresting gently. 
“Nothing,” said Kingsley, shaking him off. “It’s just—I’ve done so much thinking today. I can’t do this anymore.” She drew herself up and turned back to Finch and me. “Whoever you’re with, Agent Finch, if this is about Reginald, it’s done. I’m taking my son and moving back to Washington.” 
Agent Finch went white as a sheet. 
“Somebody better start explaining fast,” I declared into the silence. When nobody spoke, I waved my gun a little. “Hey. Kingsley. This morning you bit our heads off about this being the most important thing in the world to you. What gives?” 
“It was—it is—it still is,” she faltered. “But I think that needs to change. I need...for my son’s sake. For my sake. I can’t keep doing this to us.” She took a deep breath. “This has gone on long enough. We need to rebuild our lives, to move on. I have to try.” 
She was in her robe, and he was in jeans and a UCLA sweatshirt. He didn't have any gel in his hair, which was matted down by the knit cap he'd been wearing. He looked adorable. 
"They fired me this morning," he said. 
"Oh, hon --" she said. 
"I would have quit," he said. "I'm outmatched." 
She felt herself blush. Or was she flushing? She was suddenly aware of his smell, the boy smell, the smell that she could smell in his chest, in his scalp, in his tummy, lower... She straightened up and led him into the living room and...  
"When do you fly back, then?" she said. 
He looked at her, smiling. "I don't know," he said. "I haven't booked a ticket." 
She felt an answering smile at the corners of her mouth and turned into the fridge to fetch out some gourmet...  she said, then laughed. 
She set everything to perking and went into the bedroom to pull on something smart and camera-friendly, but everything was in the hamper, so she settled for jeans and a decent shirt from last-year's wardrobe. 
"She had a second stroke yesterday morning jest when she was helpin' Jane lay out her things to come here to-day. Jane said you wan't to know anything about it till the exercises was all over, and we promised to keep it secret till then." 
"I will go right home with you, aunt Sarah. I must just run to tell Miss Maxwell, for after I had packed up to-morrow I was going to Brunswick with her. Poor aunt Miranda! And I have been so gay and happy all day, except that I was longing for mother and aunt Jane." 
"There ain't no harm in bein' gay, lovey; that's what Jane wanted you to be. And Miranda's got her speech back, for your aunt has just sent a letter sayin' she's better; and I'm goin' to set up to-night, so you can stay here and have a good sleep, and get your things together comfortably to-morrow." 
"I'll pack your trunk for you, Becky dear, and attend to all our room things," said Emma Jane, who had come towards the group and heard the sorrowful news from the brick house. 
They moved into one of the quiet side pews, where Hannah and her husband and John joined them. From time to time some straggling acquaintance or old schoolmate would come up to congratulate Rebecca and ask why she had hidden herself in a corner. Then some member of the class would call to her excitedly, reminding her not to be late at the picnic luncheon, or begging her to be early at the class party in the evening. All this had an air of unreality to Rebecca. In the midst of the happy excitement of the last two days, when "blushing honors" had been falling thick upon her, and behind the delicious exaltation of the morning, had been the feeling that the condition was a transient one, and that the burden, the struggle, the anxiety, would soon loom again on the horizon. She longed to steal away into the woods with dear old John, grown so manly and handsome, and get some comfort from him. 
"Yes, that part of it does very well. It is the cat, the...  don't like." 
"All right!" sighed Rebecca. "Out they go; Does the cow go too?" 
"Yes, I don't like a cow in a composition," said the difficult Miss Dearborn. 
The Milltown trip had not been without its tragic consequences of a small sort; for the next week Minnie Smellie's mother told Miranda Sawyer that she'd better look after Rebecca, for she was given to "swearing and profane language;" that she had been heard saying something dreadful that very afternoon, saying it before Emma Jane and Living Perkins, who only laughed and got down on all fours and chased her. 
Rebecca, on being confronted and charged with the crime, denied it indignantly, and aunt Jane believed her. 
"Search your memory, Rebecca, and try to think what Minnie overheard you say," she pleaded. "Don't be ugly and obstinate, but think real hard. When did they chase you up the road, and what were you doing?" 
A sudden light broke upon Rebecca's darkness. 
"Oh! I see it now," she exclaimed. "It had rained hard all the morning, you know, and the road was full of puddles. Emma Jane, Living, and I were walking along, and I was ahead. I saw the water streaming over the road towards the ditch, and it reminded me of Uncle Tom's Cabin at Milltown, when Eliza took her baby and ran across the Mississippi on the ice blocks, pursued by the bloodhounds. We couldn't keep from laughing after we came out of the tent because they were acting on such a small platform that Eliza had to run round and round, and part of the time the one dog they had pursued her, and part of the time she had to pursue the dog. I knew Living would remember, too, so I took off my waterproof and wrapped it round my books for a baby; then I shouted, 'MY GOD! THE RIVER!' just like that—the same as Eliza did in the play; then I leaped from puddle to puddle, and Living and Emma Jane pursued me like the bloodhounds. It's just like that stupid Minnie Smellie who doesn't know a game when she sees one. And Eliza wasn't swearing when she said 'My God! the river!' It was more like praying." 
“God, I can’t believe I finally found you. I’ve been searching everywhere. You know you’re the only conscious AI on the whole goddamned sea?” 
“I know,” Robbie said. There was a noticeable lag in the conversation as it was all squeezed through the satellite link and then across the unimaginable hops and skips around the solar system to wherever this instance was hosted. 
“Whoa, yeah, of course you do. Sorry, that wasn’t very sensitive of me, I guess. Did we meet this morning? My name’s Tonker.” 
“We weren’t really introduced. You spent your time talking to Kate.” 
“God damn ! She is there! I knew it ! Sorry, sorry, listen—I don’t actually know what happened this morning. Apparently I didn’t get a chance to upload my diffs before my instance was terminated.” 
“Terminated? The reef said you left the shell—” 
“Well, yeah, apparently I did. But I just pulled that shell’s logs and it looks like it was rebooted while underwater, flushing it entirely. I mean, I’m trying to be a good sport about this, but technically, that’s, you know, murder .” 
“Ah. Yes, that needs some explanation. It was not a case of allowing Ms. Polk to be captured so much as it was engineering it.” 
What? She had set it up? 
“Yes. Courtney Polk—bless her, we already had her working for the cartels, and she was perfect for this role. You see, we needed someone who might conveniently be taken captive. And who might conveniently be worthy of rescuing.” 
Be worthy of... 
The pieces were starting to come together, even with half my thoughts busy at pointless arithmetic. “It was a test.” As I said it, I was sure. “Courtney didn’t know it, but she and the cartel, they were all your people all along. You were testing me.” 
Dawna hesitated, almost as if embarrassed. “No. We, ah, we weren’t testing you.” 
And suddenly I understood. “You were testing Rio.” 
She inclined her head slightly. 
They hadn’t cared about me at all; I was only another pawn. Somehow, the game had always been about Rio. “You wanted to see if Rio would rescue her,” I said slowly, feeling my way through. “You already knew he was working a cover. And when he didn’t...” 
it was obvious that she would have been happier if they hadn’t gone through all that adoption rigmarole, but by then it was too late. The only thing she could control was my hair, even though I didn’t want her to. Who knew that, underneath those sunny smiles and Oprah moments of emotional therapy talk, lurked an iron will? It doesn’t matter what you think; we’re fixing your hair my way. End of story. 
I suddenly remembered hearing one of those comments you get behind your back in school, the ones just loud enough that they’re sure you can hear it, the snorty giggles and the innocent looks when you turn around. “What? We were talking about the homework for English. Jeez, Zenobia, you’re paranoid . . .” 
It was eighth grade and we were doing mythology. The teacher had a PowerPoint with famous art showing the stories were sup- posed to be reading. Soon as a picture of Medusa came up, an angry dark face with wriggling snakes for hair, everybody looked at me and this ripple of snorts and smothered giggles fanned out through the room. 
Daneel , he said. I’ve been thinking. 
“Yes?” 
Why don’t you try to sell Asimovism here in the Noosphere? There are plenty up here who could use something to give them a sense of purpose. 
“Do you think?” 
Robbie gave him the reef’s email address. 
Start there. If there was ever an AI that needed a reason to go on living, it’s that one. And this one, too. He sent it Kate’s address. Another one in desperate need of help. 
An instant later, Daneel was back. 
“These aren’t AIs! One’s a human, the other’s a, a—” 
Uplifted coral reef . 
“That.” 
So what’s your point? 
“Asimovism is for robots, Robbie.” 
Sorry, I just don’t see the difference anymore. 
On a chunk of supercooled rock beyond Pluto, he got an IM from a familiar address. 
“Get off my rock,” it said. 
“I know you,” Robbie said. “I totally know you. Where do I know you from?” 
“I’m sure I don’t know.” 
And then he had it. 
“You’re the one. With the reef. You’re the one who—” The voice was the same, cold and distant. 
“It wasn’t me,” the voice said. It was anything but cold now. Panicked was more like it. 
You’d make one hell of an interrogator.” He turned to Jankovich. 
“I want to recruit this young man when he’s a little older. Sorry Janet. I got first dibs.” 
She blew air out of her cheeks and looked at her watch, mak- ing it clear that she wanted to get this show on the road. 
“Thing is, Nikko?” Martens said. “Given your age, we can’t ask you to take on a dangerous job.” 
“I don’t mind. I want to help.” 
“I appreciate that, but you’re a minor. It’s against the rules. So what I want you to do is stay away from Mr. Meyer and his big mouth. Far away.” 
“But . . . seriously?” 
“Oh, I’m serious, son. If he tries to talk to you again, make some excuse, get out of the situation without cluing him in that you’ve been talking to us. We’ll take it from here.” 
“But he trusts me. What if he’s already planning something? If we don’t act now, it could be too late.” 
“Son, your parents would be all over us if we put you in a situ- ation like this. I wouldn’t blame them, either. Bottom line: It ain’t gonna happen. That doesn’t mean we aren’t going to look into this guy now that you put him on our radar. We have people in the field. Professionals. We got this.” Martens stood and thrust out a hand. “Appreciate you coming in. You did the right thing.” 
"L. D. M. was practical enough to get the richest girl in the village," replied Mrs. Robinson. 
"Yes," sighed his mother, "there it is again; if the twins could 'a' married Aurelia Sawyer, 't would 'a' been all right. L. D. M. was talented 'nough to GET Reely's money, but M. D. L. would 'a' ben practical 'nough to have KEP' it." 
Aurelia's share of the modest Sawyer property had been put into one thing after another by the handsome and luckless Lorenzo de Medici. He had a graceful and poetic way of making an investment for each new son and daughter that blessed their union. "A birthday present for our child, Aurelia," he would say,—"a little nest-egg for the future;" but Aurelia once remarked in a moment of bitterness that the hen never lived that could...  out of them. 
Miranda and Jane had virtually washed their hands of Aurelia when she married Lorenzo de Medici Randall. Having exhausted the resources of Riverboro and its immediate vicinity, the unfortunate couple had moved on and on in a steadily decreasing scale of prosperity until they had reached Temperance, where they had settled down and invited fate to do its worst, an invitation which was promptly accepted. The maiden sisters at home wrote to Aurelia two or three times a year, and sent modest but serviceable presents to the children at Christmas, but refused to assist L. D. M. with the regular expenses of his rapidly growing family. His last investment, made shortly before the birth of Miranda (named in a lively hope of favors which never came), was a small farm two miles from Temperance. Aurelia managed this herself, and so it proved a home at least, and a place for the unsuccessful Lorenzo to die and to be buried from, a duty somewhat too long deferred, many thought, which he performed on the day of Mira's birth. 
We drove on. I was bored and picked through the books. Most of them looked awful, Introduction to Boring Stuff You Didn’t Even Want to Take in the First Place, but one of the books had a Guy Fawkes mask on the cover. Hacker, Hoaxer, Whistleblower, Spy. 
On the back it claimed to be the definitive book about Anony- mous. I wasn’t sure there would ever be such a thing, since nobody could define what Anonymous was, which was kind of the point, but I tipped the book to catch the last of the light fading from the sky. 
“That’s for my sociology course. I haven’t read it yet,” Bree said. “Have you?” 
“No.” I put it down. 
“It’s the one assigned text I actually want to read. Help your- self.” 
“It’s too dark to read,” I said, which was almost true. Nikko shot me another one of those looks. Don’t be a jerk. I stacked the books on the floor of the car, pulled up my hood and curled up with my head on my backpack as if I was going to get some sleep even though I was too nervous, thinking about Wheeze, thinking about Wilson, thinking about how annoying it was to see Bree and Nikko together. In spite of that I eventually drifted off until the rhythm of the car changed, everything swung sideways, and I sat up. Bree was pulling off at an exit to get gas. 
“He will! He was just asking me if I’d heard from you. Everyone’s worried. Are you okay?” 
“They’re not worried; they’re mad at me,” I said. 
“What? No, they’re not!” 
“Why aren’t they picking up their phones, then?” 
“Okay, maybe a little, but—” 
A little? If that was true, it was only because they didn’t know what I’d done since last seeing them. 
“But—but that’s not why—well, I told you, Arthur’s out, and it’s probably just coincidence if you can’t reach Checker. Maybe he’s finally sleeping or something—I hope so. Come on, you know they’re not passive aggressive people; they’re not ignoring you!” 
I bit my lip. 
“Cas? Are you okay?” 
“Yeah.” 
“Sorry, but you don’t sound like it. Are you sure? Is something wrong?” 
I didn’t say anything. 
“Listen. It doesn’t matter if Arthur and Checker are mad at you, you know that, right? If you’re in trouble, they’ll drop everything. You know that.” 
I did? 
“Cas, are you? In trouble?” 
I hung up on her, pressing the button on the phone so hard my hand cramped. 
Mrs. Royce led the way upstairs. She went at an unusual rate of speed, so that she was panting when she reached the top. 
“Kind of vi’lent!” she whispered, pointing downstairs, where Captain Grey was. 
“This room?” asked Lexy. “Shall I go in?” 
“Well,” said Mrs. Royce, “seems to me I’d knock, if I was you.” 
Knock on the door of the room where Mrs. Quelton lay? Knock, and expect an answer from that voice? It seemed to Lexy, for a moment, that she could not raise her hand. 
But she did. She knocked, and she was answered. She turned the handle and went in. An oil lamp stood on the bureau, and outside the circle of its mellow light, in the shadow, Mrs. Quelton was sitting on the edge of the bed; and it seemed to Lexy that she had never seen such a forlorn and pitiful figure. 
“Oh, my dear!” she cried impulsively, and held out her arms. 
Mrs. Quelton rose. She came toward Lexy, her hands outstretched—when a sudden cry from Mrs. Royce arrested her. 
“But that ain’t Mrs. Quelton!” cried the landlady. 
“It is my pleasure to—” 
He dropped the phone on the passenger seat and went back to fretting about the Social Harmony meeting. 
The man from Social Harmony noticed right away that Arturo was checking his phone at 90-second intervals. He was a bald, thin man with a pronounced Adam’s apple, beak-nose and shiny round head that combined to give him the profile of something predatory and fast. In his natty checked suit and pink tie, the Social Harmony man was the stuff of nightmares, the kind of eagle-eyed supercop who could spot Arturo’s attention flicking for the barest moment every 90 seconds to his phone and then back to the meeting. 
“Detective?” he said. 
Arturo looked up from his screen, keeping his expression neutral, not acknowledging the mean grins from the other four ranking detectives in the meeting. Silently, he turned his phone face-down on the meeting table. 
“Thank you,” he said. “Now, the latest stats show a sharp rise in grey-market electronics importing and other tariff-breaking crimes, mostly occurring in open-air market stalls and from sidewalk blankets. I know that many in law enforcement treat this kind of thing as mere hand-to-hand piracy, not worth troubling with, but I want to assure you, gentlemen and lady, that Social Harmony takes these crimes very seriously indeed.” 
“Forgive me for saying so,” said Halliday, gazing down her nose at me a little like she had back in her office, “but the bear does not appear trapped to me.” 
For some reason Halliday’s doubtfulness amused me this time. The woman had a spine—excellent. “Oh, that’s because you don’t know me,” I said, hoping it was true. “I’m very good.” 
“At what?” 
“Math.” 
Halliday blinked at me, then said with a perfectly straight face, “As am I. I do not believe that’s given me a solution for escaping through solid walls.” 
“I’ll figure something out,” I said. I leaned on the table and pushed myself up, ignoring the fact that I had to lean on it hard, or that I needed a moment to get my balance. 
The pages covering the table were filled with dense mathematical writing, in what I could only assume to be Halliday’s precise hand. I covered for my lack of equilibrium by frowning at them. The printed papers stacked to the side weren’t Halliday’s work, from what I could see—just background references. And the longhand sheets... 
Then I sent a short message to Masha. 
> Tomorrow, 
> M1k3y. 
What do you bring along when you go fugitive? I'd carried enough heavy packs around enough scout camps to know that every ounce you add cuts into your shoulders with all the crushing force of gravity with every step you take -- it's not just one ounce, it's one ounce that you carry for a million steps. It's a ton. 
"Right," Ange said. "Smart. And you never take more than three days' worth of clothes, either. You can rinse stuff out in the sink. Better to have a spot on your t-shirt than a suitcase that's too big and heavy to stash under a plane-seat." 
She'd pulled out a ballistic nylon courier bag that went across her chest, between her breasts -- something that made me get a little sweaty -- and slung diagonally across her back. It was roomy inside, and she'd set it down on the bed. Now she was piling clothes next to it. 
"I figure that three t-shirts, a pair of pants, a pair of shorts, three changes of underwear, three pairs of socks and a sweater will do it." 
He was right. 
But they needed shovels to get the body into the corpse wagon. Some of the bits had gone a long way off and she had to carry them before her on the spade-end of the shovel. His viscera glistened like an accusation at her. She lived on the fourteenth floor. When her time came, she’d go out the window too. 
Two years after the siege began, she awoke deaf. Mata was shaking her vigorously and her lips were moving, but there was no sound. Valentine listened hard and made out a distant, underwater sound that she couldn’t place, though it was familiar. 
Mata was thin and hard now, and slept with a gun and only came home for a few hours at a time. She was taking lots of different pills, and they made her a little jumpy. Valentine wondered if the pills had rendered her mother mute, before she realized that she couldn’t hear anything . 
She tapped her ear. 
“I can’t hear,” she said. 
Her mother didn’t appear to understand. She still shook Valentine hard. 
“I’m deaf, Mata,” she said. She shook her head and tugged her earlobes. She was scared now, and she sat up. She wiggled a finger in her ear, which was very greasy. Not even the sound of her finger in her ear carried back to her mind. Stone deaf. 
"Search your memory, Rebecca, and try to think what Minnie overheard you say," she pleaded. "Don't be ugly and obstinate, but think real hard. When did they chase you up the road, and what were you doing?" 
A sudden light broke upon Rebecca's darkness. 
"Oh! I see it now," she exclaimed. "It had rained hard all the morning, you know, and the road was full of puddles. Emma Jane, Living, and I were walking along, and I was ahead. I saw the water streaming over the road towards the ditch, and it reminded me of Uncle Tom's Cabin at Milltown, when Eliza took her baby and ran across the Mississippi on the ice blocks, pursued by the bloodhounds. We couldn't keep from laughing after we came out of the tent because they were acting on such a small platform that Eliza had to run round and round, and part of the time the one dog they had pursued her, and part of the time she had to pursue the dog. I knew Living would remember, too, so I took off my waterproof and wrapped it round my books for a baby; then I shouted, 'MY GOD! THE RIVER!' just like that—the same as Eliza did in the play; then I leaped from puddle to puddle, and Living and Emma Jane pursued me like the bloodhounds. It's just like that stupid Minnie Smellie who doesn't know a game when she sees one. And Eliza wasn't swearing when she said 'My God! the river!' It was more like praying." 
"You are insane," I said. 
"Fine talk from a man whose hobby is building and smashing laptops," she said. 
"Touche," I said and touched my forehead. 
"Want some?" She held out her mister. 
"Pass," I said, quickly enough that we both laughed. 
When we left the restaurant and headed for Dolores park, she put her arm around my waist and I found that she was just the right height for me to put my arm around her shoulders. That was new. I'd never been a tall guy, and the girls I'd dated had all been my height -- teenaged girls grow faster than guys, which is a cruel trick of nature. It was nice. It felt nice. 
We turned the corner on 20th Street and walked up toward Dolores. Before we'd taken a single step, we could feel the buzz. It was like the hum of a million bees. There were lots of people streaming toward the park, and when I looked toward it, I saw that it was about a hundred times more crowded than it had been when I went to meet Ange. 
That sight made my blood run hot. It was a beautiful cool night and we were about to party, really party, party like there was no tomorrow. "Eat drink and be merry, for tomorrow we die." 
I drank the rest of my tea and set the mug on the floor. “Sleep on it. It’s a big commitment. Soon as you go to the police, you can’t back out. It could mean you can’t be in your play, you might flunk some courses, your parents will be mad. You could get in serious legal trouble. Your whole life could change.” 
“I’m up for it. It has to be done, right?” 
“Well, he’s my brother, not yours.” 
“But he’s getting screwed. All nine of them are.” His expres- sion turned serious, even solemn. At first I thought he was acting again, but he wasn’t. “Most of what I do is fun, it’s satisfying, and I get to act, which is what I want to do with my life. But there’s no big moral issue at stake. You pour all of this effort into a play and people come and see it, and they’re entertained for a couple of hours and maybe it makes them think. Which is fine. It’s great, 
actually. But how often do you get to document injustice and set things right? It’s not like I’d want to do this all the time. I’m not that much of an activist. But this is putting my art to good pur- pose.” 
“We’d better go,” he said. “We can do nothing here. It’s a case for the police now.” 
“I’ve got to go back to the balcony,” Lexy told him. “There was something there.” 
“Very well!” he agreed, and, without another word or a backward glance, he went up the ladder. 
They returned through the house. He had left the lights burning and the doors open, so that there was a monstrous air of festivity in the emptiness. They went into Mrs. Quelton’s room again, and crossed through it to the balcony. He carried the lantern with him, and by its steady yellow flame they could see into every corner. There was the couch upon which she had lain—disarranged, as if she had just risen from it. There was a little table with medicine bottles on it. All the usual things were in the usual places. 
“Nothing here,” said Captain Grey. 
Lexy was sure, however, that there was. She stepped to the balcony railing, to look down into the garden below, and there, on the white paint of the railing, she found something. 
"Thanks, Mac," Lee-Daniel said. "How about we get some eats?" He put his hand on the geometry-reader beside the wheel, re-authenticated to the bus, then hit the hatches. Doors hissed open at the back, at the front, at the middle, fresh dusty air rushing in all at once in an ear-popping whoosh. The bus knelt ponderously and the company piled out. 
MacDiarmid hustled away to join the rest of the investors, his exquisite hand-made leather shoes slapping the paving, the cuffs of his wool tailor-made slacks shushing over their gleaming upper, and as Lee-Daniel locked the bus down and armed it up, he watched the angel investor whisper in his co-shareholders' ears. Lee-Daniel couldn't hear the words, but six years at the wheel of Cognitive Radio, Inc. had schooled him well in the body-language of investors and he knew his days with CogRad were numbered. 
The roadhouse was the kind of TAZ that got less entertaining at the square of the amount of time spent within its animated walls. The first minute was painful, an overbright eternity of authenticating to the roadhouse-area-network and establishing credit with the system. Once they had their tokens -- poker-chips adorned with grinning, dancing anthropomorphic dollar, Euro and Yen symbols -- there came the second minute, twice as horrible as the first, as they struggled in the guts of the giant vending machine, trying to fathom the actual products represented by the branded messages that tailored themselves to your personal demographic, your stated and implicit preferences, the messages that danced across your field of vision as you perused the racks in the roadhouse's aisles. 
“Penny, it’s Cas. Can you put your dad on?” 
“Sure!” She shouted cheerfully for her father, and in moments Anton grunted in my ear. 
“Anton, it’s Cas Russell again. I need you to look up something else for me.” 
Grunt. 
“That client who was with me today. Courtney Polk. Check her out for me.” 
“Anything else?” 
“No, just—” 
A deafening explosion tore through the line. I heard a girl’s scream, and Anton shouting, and then any human sound was swallowed by the chaos of more explosions, multiple ones at once—and the call went dead. 
Shit shit shit shit shit! 
I tore back along the street, my boots pounding against the asphalt, the math blurring and every other thought evaporating as I dove toward the car. 
LA traffic is forever fucked, but it helps to know the calculus of moving objects—and to drive like a maniac. I slued between lanes, skidding in front of other cars by a hairsbreadth, cutting it as close as the numbers told me I possibly could, and when I started hitting traffic lights, I laid on the horn and popped the wheels up over the curb to sheer down the sidewalk, horrified pedestrians hurling themselves out of my way and traumatized citizens howling expletives in my wake. Courtney made small sounds in the passenger seat, bracing herself against the dashboard and trying to hang on. 
“That sound nice,” she said at last, as if it didn’t sound nice at all. 
“I know it’s kind of unplanned, but I really want to hang out with my friend. Is it okay?” 
“I guess so. Call if you need anything.” 
“Okay. Say hi to Novak for me.” 
“Take care of yourself,” Monica said. “I love you.” 
“Love you, too,” I replied, wondering if I’d ever said that to her out loud before. 
Meanwhile Nikko was trying to get hold of his parents, but he hung up twice without leaving messages and looked frustrated. 
Then something dawned. His face is like a billboard sometimes, 
only not so big and ugly. “So, my dad’s in court today, and I forgot my mom’s out of town on a business trip. But I have a better idea. 
I know someone with a car we can use.” 
“You think he’ll let you borrow his car?” 
“And share the driving. It’s a long trip.” 
“He’s trustworthy?” 
“It’s a she, actually. I’d trust her with my life.” 
“Maybe you would, but I don’t know her.” Then I realized who it was. “It’s that purple-haired girl.” 
"You got it." 
Now the sound of firm, officer-like boot steps stormed past the door, headed out this time, after which the two young soldiers began berating each other in... " 
More and more light was creeping through the slatted windows. A glance at my watch showed the time to be six sharp, but the embassy was no longer an option. 
"Listen," Steve said coming back on, "there's some rain due for tonight, but he says he thinks we can try. He claims there's a clearing about a quarter of a mile down a gravel road that goes south. With the rain as cover, maybe we can put down just after dark. Think you can find a way to get Sarah and meet us?" 
"I'm not even sure she can walk, at least not far, but we'll be there." I was flashing on her back in the square, proclaim­ing her happiness. Would I have to drag her out, carry her on my back? Well, I would. "There's some kind of 'cere­mony' on for tomorrow morning. The Army's going to be here in double strength because of it, but maybe it'll make for some confusion that'll help. Still, she's—" 
Half an hour before dinner she went down into the library, a polite and quiet young guest, even a little subdued. Dr. Quelton took Captain Grey out for a stroll on the beach. He asked Lexy to go with them, but she said she would prefer to stay with Mrs. Quelton. 
It was very peaceful and pleasant there in the library. The late afternoon sun shone in through the long window, touching with a benign light the shabby and graceful old furniture, picking out a glitter of gold on the binding of a book, a dull gleam of silver or copper in a corner. A mild breeze blew in, fluttering the curtains and bringing a wholesome breath of the salt air. 
Mrs. Quelton was at her best. To be sure, she was not very interesting. She talked about rather banal things—about the weather, about a kitten that had run away, about the flowers in the conservatory; but Lexy, as she watched her and listened to her, could understand better than ever before what it was in Captain Grey’s sister that had so seized upon his heart. Languid and aloof as she was, there was nevertheless an undeniable charm about her, something sweet and kindly and lovable. She said, more than once, how very glad she was to have Lexy with her, and Lexy believed she meant it. 
“I won’t betray my city to its enemies ever again.” She sat up very straight. “I was a traitor once, but I had a fever and I was dying. You are a traitor every day and what is your excuse?” 
“A traitor? What the hell are you talking about?” 
“The spy-eyes I planted so our enemies can spy on us, the wealth you have around here. How many of our people died because you sold them out?” 
“Valentine, you are a smart girl and your mother is a soldier, but you aren’t so very smart as all that. You are a stupid girl sometimes. Our little palace here isn’t full of spies. We’re documentarians . We shoot the war and we send it to the outside world so they can see the tragedy they are wreaking here. We have a huge activist movement that we fuel through our pictures. The spy-eyes you planted yesterday are now streaming 24/7 to activist sites in fifty countries. It is being played in the halls of the United Nations.” 
Eva made a spitting sound. “It’s being played as filler on the snowy slopes of upper cable. It’s being played as ironic snuff-porn in dorm rooms. It’s being used as stock footage for avant-garde performance art. Please, wizard, please. She deserves to know the real situation, not the things you tell yourself when you can’t sleep.” 
“My God! My God!” he wailed. “Oh, Muriel!” 
She opened her eyes. For a moment she was too giddy to see. Then, as her vision cleared, she saw him on his knees beside the chest. 
When she looked back upon the experiences of that dreadful night, it seemed to Lexy that both she and her companion displayed almost incredible endurance. Since morning they had lived through a very lifetime of emotion, to end now in this tragedy more horrible than anything they could have feared. 
Yet, not five minutes after his cry of agony, Captain Grey had recovered his self-control. He was able to speak quietly to Lexy, and she was able to answer him no less quietly. 
“We’d better go,” he said. “We can do nothing here. It’s a case for the police now.” 
“I’ve got to go back to the balcony,” Lexy told him. “There was something there.” 
“Very well!” he agreed, and, without another word or a backward glance, he went up the ladder. 
They returned through the house. He had left the lights burning and the doors open, so that there was a monstrous air of festivity in the emptiness. They went into Mrs. Quelton’s room again, and crossed through it to the balcony. He carried the lantern with him, and by its steady yellow flame they could see into every corner. There was the couch upon which she had lain—disarranged, as if she had just risen from it. There was a little table with medicine bottles on it. All the usual things were in the usual places. 
“Well, now!” said Mrs. Royce, at last. “You’ll be wanting a nice quiet place for your writing.” 
“Writing!” said Lexy. “I never—” She stopped herself just in time, remembering her shocking falsehood of the night before. “I never care much where I write,” she ended. 
“Well, I’ve fixed up the sewing room for you,” said Mrs. Royce. “I’ve put a nice strong table in there with drawers, where you can keep your papers an’ all.” 
“You’re a dear!” said Lexy warmly. 
She said this because she thought it, and without the least calculation. She liked Mrs. Royce, and when she liked people she told them so. That was what made people love her. 
Mrs. Royce was completely won. 
“I’m real glad to do it for you,” she said. “I won’t bother you, neither, while you’re working. I know how it is with writing. My cousin, now—her husband was writing for the movies, an’ he was that upset if he was disturbed!” 
Still conversing with great affability, Mrs. Royce led the reluctant writer upstairs to the small room prepared for her, and shut her in. Lexy sat down in a chair before the workmanlike table, and grinned ruefully. She had said she was a writer, and now she had to be one. 
Turning back, I noticed that the room's inside walls were embossed with rows and rows of classic Mayan glyphs, like little cartoon faces, all molded in newly set plaster. To my groggy sight they seemed playful, harmless little caricatures, though next to them were raised bas-reliefs of warriors in battle dress. It was both sublimely austere and eerie, even creepy. 
I knelt down and rolled my sleeping bag, trying to clear my head. Then I stuffed my still-moist clothes into my back­pack and thought about the river, the Rio Tigre, down some­where at the back of the pyramid. And I felt my pulse rate edging up. The first thing I wanted to do was see it in the light of day. It had been Sarah's way out, the only thing I knew for sure she'd touched. 
Get going and do it. 
I headed through the rear door and down the back steps. When I reached the ground, the dense forest closed in around me, but I was certain the river lay dead ahead, through the tangle of trees. As I moved down a path that grew ever steeper, the canopy up above thickened, arching over me till it blotted out the pure blue of the sky. And the air was filled with nature sounds—birdcalls, trills, songs, and clacks, all mingled with the hum and buzz of insects. Then suddenly, from somewhere up in the canopy, a pack of screeching spi­der monkeys began flinging rotten mangos down in my di­rection. I also thought I heard the asthmatic, territorial roar of a giant howler monkey, the lord of the upper jungle. And what about snakes? I kept an eye on the vines and tendrils alongside the path, expecting any moment to stumble across a deadly fer-de-lance, a little red-and-black operator whose poison heads straight for your nervous system. 
“Hi, Sarge.” 
Lucy had known the minute she entered the game, which meant that she was still on Lucy’s buddy-list. Well, that was a hopeful sign. 
“You don’t have to call me that. We’re the same rank now, after all.” 
Anda pulled down a menu and confirmed it: she’d been promoted to Sergeant during her absence. She smiled. 
“Gosh,” she said. 
“Yes, well, you earned it,” Lucy said. “I’ve been talking to Raymond a lot about the working conditions in the factory, and, well—” She broke off. “I’m sorry, Anda.” 
“Me too, Lucy.” 
“You don’t have anything to be sorry about,” she said. 
They went adventuring, running some of the game’s standard missions together. It was fun, but after the kind of campaigning they’d done before, it was also kind of pale and flat. 
“It’s horrible, I know,” Anda said. “But I miss it.” 
“Oh thank God,” Lucy said. “I thought I was the only one. It was fun, wasn’t it? Big fights, big stakes.” 
“Well, poo,” Anda said. “I don’t wanna be bored for the rest of my life. What’re we gonna do?” 
When I settled into the cluttered corner room that was my office, I told myself this was not a day to make any big decisions. Just stick to matters that required nothing more than autopilot. 
The first thing I did was call Lou to check on Sarah (no change), and then I told him about my Hispanic visitor. He made concerned sounds and promised to accompany me on any further location shoots. 
Next I pulled out my date book and punched in a phone number I'd scribbled in the back. I'd gotten it when I was winding up my interview with Carly Grove. 
"Children of Light," said an unctuous voice. "This is Ramala." 
I hesitated a moment before giving my name. They already knew who I was; Ramala or somebody had called Paula Marks and asked about me. Me. What would she do when she heard it was yours truly in the flesh? 
I tried to take a deep breath, working around the feeling my lungs were on fire, and identified myself. 
Ramala received the information as though she'd never heard of me. Maybe she hadn't. Then I asked for an appoint­ment with Alex Goddard. As soon as it was convenient. 
The day the siege began, Valentine was at the cinema across the street from her building. The cinema had only grown the night before and when she got out of bed and saw it there, all gossamer silver supports and brave sweeping candy-apple red curves, she’d begged Mata and Popa to let her go. 
She knew that all the children in the building would spend the day there—didn’t the pack of them explore each fresh marvel as a group? The week before it had been the clever little flying cars that swooped past each other with millimeters to spare, like pigeons ripping over your head. Before that it had been the candy forest where the trees sprouted bon-bons and sticks of rock, and every boy and girl in the city had been there, laughing and eating until their bellies and sides ached. Before that, the swarms of robot insects that had gathered up every fleck of litter and dust and spirited it all away to the edge of town where they’d somehow chewed it up and made factories out of it, brightly colored and airy as an aviary....  Before that: the new apartment buildings. Before that: the new hospitals. Before that: the new government offices. 
“She wanted protection,” I blurted. “A bodyguard. I kept telling her she didn’t need one. I was wrong—obviously. Finding her is a matter of professional pride.” I bit my lip to stop the stream of words. I talk too much when I’m lying. 
The agent studied me. 
“Am I under arrest?” I asked finally. 
“Maybe. That depends.” 
“Depends on what?” 
She appeared to be considering her next statement carefully. “You are aware we are under a serious national security threat if the proof is not contained before we can adapt our systems.” 
“I’m aware,” I said. 
“To that end, we’re not opposed to utilizing whatever assets might come our way. And you have proven to be remarkably efficient at tracking this group.” 
I tried to tease through her meaning. My head was still muzzy, but she couldn’t be saying what I thought she was saying. “What?” 
“Assuming you’ll cooperate fully, and that your identity and your story check out, we’d like to use you.” 
“You want to hire me?” 
Her lips thinned. “I didn’t say hire. I said use.” 
“Hullo chickens,” Liza said. She had an Australian accent. “Well, aren’t you lot just precious and bright and expectant with your pink upturned faces like a load of flowers staring up at the sky? 
“Warms me fecking heart it does.” 
That made her laugh, and she wasn’t the only one. Miss Cruickshanks and Mrs Danzig didn’t look amused, but they tried to hide it. 
“I am Liza the Organiza, and I kick arse. Seriously.” She tapped a key on her laptop and the screen behind her lit up. It was a game—not the one that Anda played, but something space-themed, a space-station with a rocketship in the background. “This is my avatar.” Sensible boobs, sensible armor, and a sword the size of the world. “In-game, they call me the Lizanator, Queen of the Spacelanes, El Presidente of the Clan Fahrenheit.” The Fahrenheits had chapters in every game. They were amazing and deadly and cool, and to her knowledge, Anda had never met one in the flesh. They had their own island in her game. Crikey. 
On screen, The Lizanator was fighting an army of wookie-men, sword in one hand, laser-blaster in the other, rocket-jumping, spinning, strafing, making impossible kills and long shots, diving for power-ups and ruthlessly running her enemies to ground. 
Shouts and movement echoed from the woods around the diner. 
The stairs I was next to led to a walkway that wound around the next building to open into another veranda. If I could get to the building, maybe I could take cover somewhere inside. Find something to patch myself up. Maybe. 
I pawed at the plants and the ground and managed to lurch into a crawl. By the time I made it up onto the walkway to the door, my vision was darkening around the edges, and my side was a ball of fire. I reached up and pushed the door open, vaguely noting the scarlet smears and handprints I was leaving behind. 
I slumped against the wall just inside the door and concentrated on breathing. My right hand had dug in to press against the front side of the wound, and it felt like it was drowning in blood. 
I reached my left hand up and found the edge of a table—this building still had them, dusty and defunct—and heaved. The world tilted and the floor almost went out from under me, but somehow I got myself upright, standing—okay, leaning heavily—against the wall. 
She was halfway through the room, mowing down the noobs in twos and threes. She was hungry and bored and this Raymond was weirding her out. 
› Do you know who these people are that you’re killing? 
She didn’t answer, but she had an idea. She killed four more and shook out her wrists. 
› They’re working for less than a dollar a day. The shirts they make are traded for gold and the gold is sold on eBay. Once their avatars have leveled up, they too are sold off on eBay. They’re mostly young girls supporting their families. They’re the lucky ones: the unlucky ones work as prostitutes. 
Her wrists really ached. She slaughtered half a dozen more. 
› The bosses used to use bots, but the game has countermeasures against them. Hiring children to click the mouse is cheaper than hiring programmers to circumvent the rules. I’ve been trying to unionize them because they’ve got a very high rate of injury. They have to play for 18-hour shifts with only one short toilet break. Some of them can’t hold it in and they soil themselves where they sit. 
Standing in front of me, he gently placed his hands on my heart, then bent over and seemed to be listening to my chest. His touch was warm, then cold, then warm, but the overall effect was to send a sense of well-being through my entire body. 
"You're not breathing normally," he said after a moment of unnerving silence. "I feel no harmony." 
How did he know that? But he was right. I felt the way I had the first time I tried to sit in Zen meditation in Kyoto. As then, my body was relaxing but my wayward brain was still coursing. 
"I'll try," I said, attempting to go along. What I really was feeling was the overwhelming sense of his presence, drawing me to him. 
Next he moved around behind me and cradled my head in his hands, placing his long fingertips on my forehead, sort of the same way he'd done when I was standing with him on the windy heath, nursing a killer cold. All the while, the drone seemed to be increasing to a piercing, overwhelming volume, as though a powerful electrical force were growing in the room, sending me into an alpha state of relaxation. 
"Email this Masha creature. Let's see what this chick can do for us." 
I emailed her, encrypting the message, waiting for a reply. Ange nuzzled me a little and I kissed her and we necked. Something about the danger and the pact to go together -- it made me forget the awkwardness of having sex, made me freaking horny as hell. 
We were half naked again when Masha's email arrived. 
> Two of you? Jesus, like it won't be hard enough already. 
> I don't get to leave except to do field intelligence after a big Xnet hit. You get me? The handlers watch my every move, but I go off the leash when something big happens with Xnetters. I get sent into the field then. 
> You do something big. I get sent to it. I get us both out. All three of us, if you insist. 
> Make it fast, though. I can't send you a lot of email, understand? They watch me. They're closing in on you. You don't have a lot of time. Weeks? Maybe just days. 
> I need you to get me out. That's why I'm doing this, in case you're wondering. I can't escape on my own. I need a big Xnet distraction. That's your department. Don't fail me, M1k3y, or we're both dead. Your girlie too. 
Tresting stepped over to her. “I was targeted,” he said in a low aside. “Worried about you and Ned now. He at school still?” 
“Ye—yes.” Kingsley inched closer to Tresting, her posture tense as she regarded my tableau with Finch. “You think he isn’t who he says?” 
“Possible,” said Tresting neutrally, looking at me. 
“I assure you, I am with the Federal Bureau of Investigation,” Finch repeated, much more tranquil than I wanted him to be. “Now if you’ll put down the weapon, I’m sure we can sort this out.” 
“Courtney Polk,” I cut in. “Skinny kid, frizzy hair. What do you know about her?” 
“Nothing,” said Finch, with a poker face I would have killed for. 
I smiled slowly. “Oh, see? You just lied to me. That’s a bad idea.” 
“I’m not lying,” said Finch guilelessly. “I have no idea what you’re talking about.” 
“Miss Polk killed this woman’s husband,” Tresting said, tilting his head at Leena. “You got any information at all about her, this ain’t the time to withhold it.” 
“That’s true,” I said. “You don’t have to worry about me making holes in you; Dr. Kingsley’ll put your head through a wall.” 
"Weaponized it," Ria said. 
"Whose story is this?" 
Leon felt that the limbs of his suit were growing stiffer, his exhaust turning it into a balloon. And he had to pee. And he didn't want to move. 
"You dosed people with it?" 
"Leon," Viktor said, in a voice that implied, Come on, we're bigger than that . "They'd consented to being medical research subjects. And it worked . They stopped running around shouting The sky is falling, the sky is falling and became -- zen . Happy, in a calm, even-keeled way. Headless chickens turned into flinty-eyed air-traffic controllers." 
"And your best friend beat your brains in --" 
"Because," Viktor said, in a little Mickey Mouse falsetto, " it would be unethical to do a broad-scale release on the general public " 
Ria was sitting so still he had almost forgotten she was there. 
Leon shifted his weight. "I don't think that you're telling me the whole story." 
"We were set to market it as an anti-anxiety medication." 
"And?" 
Ria stood up abruptly. "I'll wait outside." She left without another word. 
I could feel a sob welling up; a tantrum to crown all childish tantrums nucleating in my chest. “But I want the pretty!” I insisted. 
Arthur didn’t bother responding. Instead, he sat on me and made a phone call while I threw my tantrum. I remembered I was angry at Arthur, so angry—and I let it all tear out, rain down on his head, the most creative profanities I could construct. 
It didn’t seem like he heard me. In fact, he was yelling, too—things like what-the-hell-happened and for-such-a-smart-guy-you-can-be-really-dumb-sometimes into the phone. Somewhere in there things got hazy again, and I wasn’t sure when the haziness of reality slipped into the haziness of chaotic dreams, dreams filled with men with guns that turned into needles. 
When I woke up with a splitting headache and a stomach that wanted to turn itself inside out and wring itself dry, I was lying on my sofa and Arthur and Checker were in my living room. Arthur handed me a cup of water. “Here. Drink.” 
My mouth tasted like socks, and I only got down a sip or two before my insides rebelled and I hastily set the cup down and threw up over the side of the couch, the mess spattering my floor. I decided I felt too sick to worry about it, and spat, trying to focus my eyes. 
“These are really good,” she said between bites. ”I’ve never tried pickling. Have you ever made kombucha? I can’t get it to come out right.” 
“Fermentation’s tricky. Haven’t had much luck with it.” 
Nikko snagged the last piece of cheese. “Thanks for lunch. 
We’d better hit the road.” 
“Thanks for taking care of Wheeze,” I said. “I don’t know how to repay you.” 
“You already did. Got my computer working.” 
“I can do something useful while I’m here,” Wheeze said. Jane studied him. His breath rattled in his chest, but he sat up a little straighter and tried to look competent. 
“He’s good at fixing things,” I said. 
“I have an old pedal sewing machine that isn’t working right. 
Can you repair it?” He nodded. “What else are you good at?” 
“Screen printing. Making soup.” 
“Reading incredibly long books about the history of debt,” I added. 
“Debt?” 
“It’s more interesting than it sounds,” Wheeze said. 
“Well, I got a lot of old books and no time to read them. If you record them for me, I can listen while I do the chores.” 
You could always tell by the reaction of the crew. Even Roger Drexel, who usually hid his thoughts somewhere in his scraggly beard, was letting his eyes sparkle behind his Panaflex. Scott was also grinning as he struck the lights and Cafiero ripped up the power lines, now taped to the floor. Everybody was in wrap mode, flushed with a great shoot. 
I followed Carly into the kitchen, where Marcy was feed­ing Kevin some Gerber applesauce. The time had come, I thought, to spring the next big question, out of earshot of the crew. 
"I hate to put you on the spot, but do you know any other women like you, single, who've adopted through Children of Light?" I decided to experiment with the truth. "God knows, depending on what happens in my own situation, I'm . . . I'm thinking I might even want to check them out for myself." 
"What do you mean?" She gave me a quick, concerned look. 
"Maybe I'd like to talk to them about adopting too." I realized I was babbling, my usual prelude to obsessing. 
Carly's worried gaze eased up a bit, but she started twist­ing at her hair. 
Normal men relegate shed and their complementary mythology to mental files marked "Creepy, but Irrelevant" and/or "Useless Paranormal Trivia". Preferably, mental files that are locked, buried, only accessed on impenetrably dark nights hemmed in by a thick pine forest when they're clustered around a roaring campfire with a troop of too-big-for-their-knickers Boy Scouts. 
All this, of course, leads him roundabout to musty reflections on Jack Holcomb himself. Jack Holcomb the virgin LT, who knew nothing about actual combat, who talked deeply and intelligently of subjects arcane and occult, who for two weeks in the desert kept one hand over the space between his neck and chest like there was something dangling there and the other on the butt of a Russoturk assault rifle which he field stripped with expert care every morning so it wouldn't clog with sand. Holcomb wasn't a normal LT, despite how Ray wanted to characterize him. He didn't have the earnest idiocy of a puppy with poor bladder control. Not earnest at all, but rather intense in a vaguely scary way. He was squared away, at least theoretically, as close to being squared away as you could get without having been in a combat situation. He didn't freak out in hostile territory. He didn't cling to Ray like he couldn't take care of himself. He'd accepted advice and guidance, but done his fair share of sentry duty while Ray slept and offered salient suggestions like he had a map of the terrain wedged behind his eyeballs. Holcomb had been a soldier in the field, which was high praise in those days, and a large part of the reason they'd made it back to camp alive. 
Van had read over his shoulder. “Felix—” he began. 
“God,” Felix said. He was sitting on the floor of the cage and he slowly pulled himself upright. Van took the laptop and tried some news sites, but they were all timing out. Impossible to say if it was because something terrible was happening or because the network was limping under the superworm. 
“I need to get home,” Felix said. 
“I’ll drive you,” Van said. “You can keep calling your wife.” 
They made their way to the elevators. One of the building’s few windows was there, a thick, shielded porthole. They peered through it as they waited for the elevator. Not much traffic for a Wednesday. Were there more police cars than usual? 
“ Oh my God —” Van pointed. 
The CN Tower, a giant white-elephant needle of a building loomed to the east of them. It was askew, like a branch stuck in wet sand. Was it moving? It was. It was heeling over, slowly, but gaining speed, falling northeast toward the financial district. In a second, it slid over the tipping point and crashed down. They felt the shock, then heard it, the whole building rocking from the impact. A cloud of dust rose from the wreckage, and there was more thunder as the world’s tallest freestanding structure crashed through building after building. 
"You're kidding me, right?" 
"Do I look like I'm kidding?" 
"There's no way I would voluntarily go without you, Ange. I could never have asked you to come, but I'm ecstatic that you offered." 
She smiled and tossed me my keyboard. 
"Email this Masha creature. Let's see what this chick can do for us." 
I emailed her, encrypting the message, waiting for a reply. Ange nuzzled me a little and I kissed her and we necked. Something about the danger and the pact to go together -- it made me forget the awkwardness of having sex, made me freaking horny as hell. 
We were half naked again when Masha's email arrived. 
> Two of you? Jesus, like it won't be hard enough already. 
> I don't get to leave except to do field intelligence after a big Xnet hit. You get me? The handlers watch my every move, but I go off the leash when something big happens with Xnetters. I get sent into the field then. 
> You do something big. I get sent to it. I get us both out. All three of us, if you insist. 
> Make it fast, though. I can't send you a lot of email, understand? They watch me. They're closing in on you. You don't have a lot of time. Weeks? Maybe just days. 
I looked over at Wheeze. He had dozed off in the raggedy- armed chair by the stove. I wouldn’t have minded too much if he found out about the Group. But it was mine, in a way that I couldn’t explain. All of these overlapping parts of my life were getting confusing. 
“Good to know that problem I was having with the computer was just mechanical. I was afraid it was the government messing with me.” 
“They wouldn’t want to stop you from using your computer. 
They’d install a keylogger or a Trojan so they could watch every- thing you did.” She frowned. Smiles might not be her style, but frowns were. “I doubt they could, though. This is a pretty tight system you got here.” 
“That’s the only way I’d ever use the internet. I could live with- out it, but there’s some old books out there on animal husbandry that I’ve been going through for ideas. Lot of what you find in them is cockamamie, but sometimes they have home remedies that really work. Trying one on that chicken over there.” 
I updated the OS and the Tor bundle and some other stuff, 
Another milestone was the departure of the Simpsons from Riverboro, bag and baggage, the banquet lamp being their most conspicuous possession. It was delightful to be rid of Seesaw's hateful presence; but otherwise the loss of several playmates at one fell swoop made rather a gap in Riverboro's "younger set," and Rebecca was obliged to make friends with the Robinson baby, he being the only long-clothes child in the village that winter. 
The faithful Seesaw had called at the side door of the brick house on the evening before his departure, and when Rebecca answered his knock, stammered solemnly, "Can I k-keep comp'ny with you when you g-g-row up?" "Certainly NOT," replied Rebecca, closing the door somewhat too speedily upon her precocious swain. Mr. Simpson had come home in time to move his wife and children back to the town that had given them birth, a town by no means waiting with open arms to receive them. The Simpsons' moving was presided over by the village authorities and somewhat anxiously watched by the entire neighborhood, but in spite of all precautions a pulpit chair, several kerosene lamps, and a small stove disappeared from the church and were successfully swapped in the course of Mr. Simpson's driving tour from the old home to the new. It gave Rebecca and Emma Jane some hours of sorrow to learn that a certain village in the wake of Abner Simpson's line of progress had acquired, through the medium of an ambitious young minister, a magnificent lamp for its new church parlors. No money changed hands in the operation; for the minister succeeded in getting the lamp in return for an old bicycle. The only pleasant feature of the whole affair was that Mr. Simpson, wholly unable to console his offspring for the loss of the beloved object, mounted the bicycle and rode away on it, not to be seen or heard of again for many a long day. 
“I called you,” I muttered. “I told you where I’d be.” 
She rolled her eyes. “Sibley County? Right. Look, you know I trust you, but you need to stay in at night for a while to reassure your parents.” 
“But I have stuff to do.” 
“Can’t you do it in the daytime?” 
“Not always.” 
She closed her eyes and pinched the top of her nose with two fingers as if she had a headache up there. “How about a compro- mise. If you’re going to be out, you have to let me know where you are and let me pick you up when you’re done. I know you value your independence, but we have to do something different or . . .” 
Or I’d get sent to a luxurious suburban prison and totally lose any chance I had to help my brother or take down a scumbag rapist. I didn’t have any choice. “Okay, I guess.” 
“Good. That might give me some bargaining power. I’m going to make some herb tea before I tackle the rest of this grading. Do you want some?” 
“You’ve been so busy with your . . .” She made air quotes. 
“Group project. Are things going all right?” 
"I wouldn't trust any of 'em when Miss Right comes along!" laughed Mrs. Cobb genially. "You never can tell what 'n' who 's goin' to please 'em. You know Jeremiah's contrairy horse, Buster? He won't let anybody put the bit into his mouth if he can help it. He'll fight Jerry, and fight me, till he has to give in. Rebecca didn't know nothin' about his tricks, and the other day she went int' the barn to hitch up. I followed right along, knowing she'd have trouble with the headstall, and I declare if she wan't pattin' Buster's nose and talkin' to him, and when she put her little fingers into his mouth he opened it so fur I thought he'd swaller her, for sure. He jest smacked his lips over the bit as if 't was a lump o' sugar. 'Land, Rebecca,' I says, 'how'd you persuade him to take the bit?' 'I didn't,' she says, 'he seemed to want it; perhaps he's tired of his stall and wants to get out in the fresh air.'" 
A year had elapsed since Adam Ladd's prize had been discussed over the teacups in Riverboro. The months had come and gone, and at length the great day had dawned for Rebecca,—the day to which she had been looking forward for five years, as the first goal to be reached on her little journey through the world. School-days were ended, and the mystic function known to the initiated as "graduation" was about to be celebrated; it was even now heralded by the sun dawning in the eastern sky. Rebecca stole softly out of bed, crept to the window, threw open the blinds, and welcomed the rosy light that meant a cloudless morning. Even the sun looked different somehow,—larger, redder, more important than usual; and if it were really so, there was no member of the graduating class who would have thought it strange or unbecoming, in view of all the circumstances. Emma Jane stirred on her pillow, woke, and seeing Rebecca at the window, came and knelt on the floor beside her. "It's going to be pleasant!" she sighed gratefully. "If it wasn't wicked, I could thank the Lord, I'm so relieved in mind! Did you sleep?" 
With a sigh of relief, she sat down on the edge of the platform. She wouldn’t in the least mind sitting here until morning, in a place where there were lights and a clock, and she could hear a dog barking. She took off her shoe and rubbed her bruised foot, and sighed again with great content. In four hours or so somebody would come, and then she would find out where she was, and how to get back to Mrs. Royce, and Mrs. Royce’s...  
She started up, and hastily put on her shoe again, for in the distance she heard the sound of a motor. She told herself that it would be the height of folly to stop an unknown car in this solitary place, for there were evil men abroad in the world; but there were a great many more honest ones, and if she could only get back to Mrs. Royce’s now! 
She crossed the road and stood behind a big tree. The purr of the motor was growing louder and louder, filling the whole earth. Her heart beat fast, she kept her eyes upon the road, excited, but not sure what she meant to do. 
"By the way." Try one more thing on him, I thought, see what he'll say. "Since you're so concerned about Sarah, you'll be relieved to know she's regained consciousness and started to talk." There seemed no point in telling him any more. The rest was all still speculation. 
That stopped him cold. "What . . . what has she said?" His eyes appeared startled in the glaring light of the office fluorescents. At long last I had his undivided attention. 
"You're busy." I smiled at him. "I don't want to bore you with details. But it's just going to be a matter of time before she remembers exactly what happened down here." 
"She hasn't talked about it yet?" He was fiddling with an ornate letter opener, an onyx jaguar head on the handle. 
"She's getting there." I stared back at him, trying to read his mood. "We may soon find out who was behind whatever happened to her." Then I tried a long shot. "Maybe official­dom here had something to do with it." 
"Let me tell you something." He sighed again, seeming to regain his composure. "The sovereign state of Guatemala definitely plays by its own rules. Whenever foreigners down here meet with foul play, lower-level officials have developed a consensus over the years that sometimes it's better not be too industrious. Nobody's ever sure of what, or who, they might turn up." 
Mrs. Simpson, who was decidedly Abner's better half, took in washing and went out to do days' cleaning, and the town helped in the feeding and clothing of the children. George, a lanky boy of fourteen, did chores on neighboring farms, and the others, Samuel, Clara Belle, Susan, Elijah, and Elisha, went to school, when sufficiently clothed and not otherwise more pleasantly engaged. 
There were no secrets in the villages that lay along the banks of Pleasant River. There were many hard-working people among the inhabitants, but life wore away so quietly and slowly that there was a good deal of spare time for conversation,—under the trees at noon in the hayfield; hanging over the bridge at nightfall; seated about the stove in the village store of an evening. These meeting-places furnished ample ground for the discussion of current events as viewed by the masculine eye, while choir rehearsals, sewing societies, reading circles, church picnics, and the like, gave opportunity for the expression of feminine opinion. All this was taken very much for granted, as a rule, but now and then some supersensitive person made violent objections to it, as a theory of life. 
Ray arches an eyebrow. "Does that surprise you?"  "Urn, no." 
Ray can count on one hand the number of people he's told about Ba'dai. He might have told more if the information wasn't still classified as really-ultra-mega secret or whatever the current parlance for weird military data was, but of those who carried the clearance to hear it, he'd only been around maybe one or two of them when they were actually drunk enough to halfway believe him. 
So Becker's obviously strained credulity neither surprises nor offends him. With a story like this, you have to give a guy a few minutes, let him roll it over in his brain and run his fingers over its distinguishing features until he finds something that lets him hold onto it, something familiar that will put the rest of it in perspective. Ray suspects that a fairly solid portion of humanity won't find any handle at all, and they either drop it and forget about the whole thing, or they wander around for the rest of their lives wondering every time they trip over this alien lump of data just how hard Ray was pulling their leg-or just how crazy he was. 
"It was bad, wasn't it? I mean, they didn't just kill him, not accidentally or even gently. Amah wouldn't give me any details, any of the truth, except to say that he was dead. But I know it must have been terrible, because she would have said so otherwise. And when I tried to ask her more about it, to give me something to comfort the other children with, she sent me to my room like a little girl. She doesn't want me to know. She thinks she's protecting me. But I don't need protection; I need to know." 
"Becker will catch whoever did this, I can promise you that." 
Emma scowls, her eyes turn hard. "You're just like Amah." 
"Maybe she's right. Not that you need protection, of course, but just that there are some things it's better not to know. You always hear people say that imagining is worse than the reality, no matter how horrible the truth might be. It's been my experience that the only people who say that are folks who have never seen anything truly horrible." 
This concession seems to be enough. Emma blinks the anger out of her gaze. "You've seen terrible things before, haven't you? You've been a soldier." 
Finally one of the men looked up and noticed me. Our eyes locked for an instant—it seemed like forever—and then he reached over and, in a way that seemed breathless, shook the man next to him, gesturing toward me. Together they gazed back as though viewing a phantom, their brown faces intent, and then they turned and called out to the others, alerting them. 
What are they going to do with me? I wondered with a sudden chill. A stranger here in their hideaway midst. Would they just turn on me? 
Find some women. Get off the street. 
I turned and headed as fast as I could down the cobble­stone central path, till I saw a cluster of females on a white­washed stone porch, long hair falling over their shoulders as they bent to their tasks beneath the thatch overhangs. Some were stirring rugged clay pots of corn soaking in lime; others were grinding the softened maize to tortilla thinness on wide granite platters. Behind them was another group that ap­peared to be part of a sewing commune, young wives busy at their back-strap looms, layering thread after thread of dyed cotton. None of them was wearing a huipil —the traditional multicolored blouse I'd remembered from the waitresses in the restaurant. Instead, they all had on a kind of handloom-woven white shift I'd never seen before. 
Ray watches him go, thinking: Rats. 
Paraclete resembles a battle scarred narwhal more than the sleek and sexy rockets people generally associated with space craft. Casual observers tend to agree that it has lumps in all the wrong places, ridges where there should be planes. It's like a high school kid's first experiments with a battered old jalopy and an industrial sized bucket of bondo. 
It is a starship straight from the twisted and lumbering imagination of Bosch. 
This is perhaps not surprising given that Paraclete is not designed to slice a clean and brilliant swath through relativistic space, but to trundle along its shipping lanes, to creep into its secret places, to establish contact with hostile elements it might find there and blast the spunky bits out of them. In that light, Paraclete has also been styled as the most secure passenger liner in the history of human transport. 
Ray exits the lift doors and takes a left hand turn away from the main bridge. Here there's a small corridor, at the end of which is a door that he enters without bothering to knock. Becker is there, holding the door ajar as if he was just about to leave. He spots Ray and gives him a look that might be relief. Or it might be more akin to a you are such a tool sentiment. Becker has one of those inscrutable faces that can be difficult to read. 
“We’ll time the next one, then. And then the next one is when we’re out of here. Before dark.” 
“I still think we should wait for Arthur,” said Halliday. “This is foolhardy. Reckless.” 
“Reckless is where I live.” I tried to grin and failed. “It’s too dangerous to wait, Professor. I’m not giving you a choice.” 
“What’s your plan, then?” She addressed the question as if she were giving an oral exam, one she expected me to fail. 
I hadn’t quite worked out what our best shot would be myself, but I didn’t say so, instead ignoring the professor and taking a moment to think. The regular meals gave us scheduled opportunities of contact with our captors, which meant I could try something timed. And what would throw them into a panic more than the chance of losing their bosses’ assets? 
Those assets being the half-finished proof, Professor Halliday, and me. 
She was going to kill me. 
“We only need them to open that door,” I said slowly, “and they’d rush in to save us, if we were in danger. From, say, a fire.” 
"Of course, we have better facilities and a large staff in Blackheath Grange to continue this process, but then they are in the world, of it, immersed in it. We do not want them to feel lost and alone in this new place. So we teach them, and the result is that they become attractive members of the colony. They have the skills and education that the colony needs. In return, they receive love, friendship, support, an extended family as a foundation upon which they can build a life of sound purpose. It is good for both sides, don't you agree?" 
He doesn't actually know if he agrees in principle, or if it's just the best of a poor lot of options, but he says he understands and exchanges what he assumes are more or less appropriate pleasantries. This is much better than having her cackle after him for threatening the tranquility and security of the Whiston domestic space. 
He still doesn't think she likes him very much, but they seem to have moved from a state of antagonism to one of toleration. It's one he can live with. People have been tolerating him his entire life. 
“Shut up,” I said. “I’ll find a way.” 
I flopped down on my bed, but couldn’t close my eyes. If I did, I would dream. 
By the time my email chimed again, I had a plan. 
The Lancer’s response to my overture was short and suspicious, but as Tegan had come through with the promised referral, he was willing to talk. Hopefully the revelation that someone had solved P versus NP would tantalize him enough to override any further common sense. 
I felt a brief pang of guilt for screwing over Tegan’s good reference. If this ended the way I wanted it to, the Lancer and whoever among his men were unlucky enough to be with him would end up dead or in NSA custody. I mollified myself with the fact that “dead or muzzled by the NSA” meant they wouldn’t be able to go around spreading the gossip that Tegan’s word hadn’t been on the level. 
I sent the Lancer a very clear, firmly-worded email laying out my plan, and then drove to Checker’s house and parked down the street. 
I had to wait forever for him to leave. I was almost resigning myself to wondering if I’d have to break in with him still there when he came out of the Hole and got into his car. Even from this distance he looked exhausted, his movements dragging as he hauled his chair in behind the seat. Maybe it was the vantage point that made him seem thinner than normal. 
After you get the proof from Martinez? 
I closed my eyes and pushed the thought away. I shouldn’t want it anymore, should I? This was like one of those old-style fables, the ones with the morals. I had chased the proof beyond reason, and it had led me to ruin. I should feel noble about letting it go and preach about the power of friendship over selfish desires. Or something. 
I couldn’t do it. 
I’d fucked up, badly, but volunteering to give up the chance to know Martinez’s proof was too high a penance. Too much to ask. Just the prospect felt like offering to saw off one of my own limbs. Something in me was broken, and willingly staying broken forever wasn’t something I could do, however much my guilt told me I might deserve it. 
I still needed the proof, no matter what Martinez or the NSA or the DHS had to say about it. 
But to salve my guilty conscience, I promised myself I would get it without going too far this time. I could bide my time. See what the Feds’ play was. 
A muscle in my leg twitched, then my right hand. Stupid muscles. 
“I went out to telephone,” he explained. “Thought I’d tell Muriel I was here, you know; but they have no telephone. Dashed odd, isn’t it, for a doctor not to have a telephone in the house?” 
“I don’t think he’s a real doctor—a physician, I mean,” said Lexy. She glanced around and saw that Mrs. Royce had gone. Springing up, she crossed the room to Captain Grey. “Has Mrs. Royce—has any one said anything to you?” she asked, almost in a whisper. 
“No!” answered the young man, startled. “Why? What’s up?” 
“Mrs. Royce says—I suppose I really ought to tell you.” 
“No doubt about it!” 
“Mrs. Royce says Dr. Quelton is crazy!” 
Captain Grey took the news very coolly. Lexy observed that he suppressed a smile. 
“Oh, that!” he said. “But you know, Miss Moran, in these little villages any one who’s at all out of the ordinary is called crazy. I’ve noticed it before. I can soon find out for myself, though, can’t I? I thought, if you didn’t want me this morning, I’d go over there—pay a call, you know. I understand it’s three miles from here, so I shouldn’t be very long. I’d come back here for lunch.” 
“Cas, talk to me. What are you thinking?” 
“I’m going to find their base,” I said. 
“How?” 
“I need a map,” I said. 
“What?” 
“A physical paper map. Where can you buy one of those these days?” 
“Um, I don’t know. I’d stop at somewhere with Internet and print one, if I were you.” 
“You’re the guy sitting at a computer,” I said, irritation bleeding into my voice. “Find out where I can buy a fucking map. On paper.” 
“Other than Amazon?” 
“Stop being a smartass.” 
“Okay, okay.” He hesitated. “Are you sure you’re all right? You’re, uh, a little more snappish than usual.” 
“I’m fine.” 
“All right already. Um, it looks like your best bets are bookstores, travel centers, gas stations, or drugstores. I can call around to see who has some. Yes, yes, the antediluvian method of phone inquiries—I could hack their inventories, but that would actually be more work, believe it or not—” 
“I’m at a drugstore,” I said. “I’ll check here first.” 
Silence. 
“Hello?” 
“Why are you at a drugstore?” 
I tried to dredge up a flip answer and couldn’t. My thoughts scraped uncomfortably against each other. 
Or they had their sights set on the van, ready to pop me the instant I showed myself. 
I tried to think. My brain felt like it was cooking in my skull. My eyes scratched and watered; I tried to blink them clear. Options. What were my options? 
Only one back quarter panel of the van wasn’t on fire. I rolled in that direction and scooted back out from underneath, then snuck toward the tailgate, shrugging out of my jacket as I went. I stuck my gun hand under it like a tent pole, and then poked the jacket-covered gun out past the back of the van. 
More gunfire deafened me, and I yanked my arm back down, tearing the cloth off my Colt. It had one hole torn in it. 
One hole. They’d fired fourteen rounds in two seconds with those freakin’ automatic rifles, and only one had hit. Idiots and their automatics. 
I had no time: I wasn’t behind the engine block anymore, this heat was undoing me, and if these guys let loose, one of the rounds would eventually go straight through the van and hit me. But I didn’t need time, because the gunfire had pinpointed their locations. 
"Christ," Dad said, his fists balling up on the table. Dad teaches in Berkeley three days a week, working with a few grad students in the library science program. The rest of the time he consults for clients in city and down the Peninsula, third-wave dotcoms that are doing various things with archives. He's a mild-mannered librarian by profession, but he'd been a real radical in the sixties and wrestled a little in high school. I'd seen him get crazy angry now and again -- I'd even made him that angry now and again -- and he could seriously lose it when he was Hulking out. He once threw a swing-set from Ikea across my granddad's whole lawn when it fell apart for the fiftieth time while he was assembling it. 
"Barbarians," Mom said. She's been living in America since she was a teenager, but she still comes over all British when she encounters American cops, health-care, airport security or homelessness. Then the word is "barbarians," and her accent comes back strong. We'd been to London twice to see her family and I can't say as it felt any more civilized than San Francisco, just more cramped. 
“No problem, Officer.” I could hear people moving around outside. “You all have a good day, now,” called Finch, and shut the door. 
He hurried back into the living room. “We’re in trouble,” he said. “Someone give me my mobile back, now.” 
Tresting squinted at him, but did as he asked. 
Finch hit a few numbers. “Indigo,” he said into the phone. “Verification needed, Los Angeles Police Department. Eight five oh three two bravo.” He paused, then added, “And Saturn. Used Redowa as a threat. They want to meet.” 
I snapped my fingers in his face. “Cut out the code words, superspy. What’s going on?” 
He whirled on me furiously. “Look, missy, they’ve got SWAT out there. They’re not going away just because I waved a badge at them. And meanwhile you and your friend are a couple of children playing at something you know nothing about, and you’re going to get a lot of people killed unless I clean up your mess here, so now would be a good time to shut up.” He turned back to his phone. “Yes, sir. Yes. No objection. I’ll let them know. Thank you, sir.” 
"What princes? What tower?" asked Alice and Emma Jane in one breath. "Tell us about them." 
"Not now, it's my supper time." (Rebecca was a somewhat firm disciplinarian.) 
"It would be elergant being murdered by you," said Emma Jane loyally, "though you are awful real when you murder; or we could have Elijah and Elisha for the princes." 
"They'd yell when they was murdered," objected Alice; "you know how silly they are at plays, all except Clara Belle. Besides if we once show them this secret place, they'll play in it all the time, and perhaps they'd steal things, like their father." 
"They needn't steal just because their father does," argued Rebecca; "and don't you ever talk about it before them if you want to be my secret, partic'lar friends. My mother tells me never to say hard things about people's own folks to their face. She says nobody can bear it, and it's wicked to shame them for what isn't their fault. Remember Minnie Smellie!" 
Well, they had no difficulty in recalling that dramatic episode, for it had occurred only a few days before; and a version of it that would have melted the stoniest heart had been presented to every girl in the village by Minnie Smellie herself, who, though it was Rebecca and not she who came off victorious in the bloody battle of words, nursed her resentment and intended to have revenge. 
"Who . . ." said a startled voice, and I knew it was Lou, somewhere in the direction of the couch. 
I clicked on the light switch and saw him lying on the floor, leaning against the couch, blood everywhere, his eyes in shock. 
"My God! What happened?" 
"I'm afraid to move. The phone was ringing and I figured it was you, but I didn't dare get up. Knowing you, you'd come over if I didn't answer." He was holding his side as he looked at me. "Morgy, she's gone." 
At first what he said didn't sink in as I bent over him. The right side of his shirt, just above his belt, was soaked in blood. Taking care, I unbuttoned it and saw an open cut that looked as though he'd been stabbed with a knife. It also appeared to be reasonably superficial, as though a thin blade had pierced through a couple of layers of tread on his ample spare tire. But it was bleeding still, enough to make it look worse than it probably was. However, if it'd happened to me, I'd doubtless be in shock too. 
I got up, went to the bathroom, and pulled two towels off the rack, then doused water over one and came back. 
I pictured the...  sweater. 
“She’s smart. Tough. Kind of scary.” 
“My dad said she’s a nutcase, but then, he thinks I’m crazy, too. 
Are you okay?” 
“I’m fine. Not really. I’m scared he’ll go to prison.” 
“I’ll be at that rally on Sunday.” 
“What rally?” 
He looked at me, surprised. “In front of the federal building? 
The Minneapolis Nine Solidarity Committee is organizing it.” 
“Are you even paying attention?” Marcella asked, finally notic- ing that we weren’t. 
“At your service,” Nikko said, sweeping his wool cap off his head in an elaborate bow, like he was in Shakespeare play. “Pray, 
madam, read on.” 
She gave him a narrow-eyed look. “So the other alternative . . 
.” she said, droning her way through it all. 
“I figured you were involved,” Nikko said out of the side of his mouth like a film noir gangster, staring at the flowchart as if he found it fascinating. 
“I don’t know any of those people.” 
“They have a website, a Facebook page, a Twitter account, a YouTube channel. Want to come to the rally with me? I’ll pick you up if you want.” 
"Do I need to cuff you, Marcus?" 
I got to my feet. I hurt all over. I wanted to die. 
"Come on," she said. "It's not far now." 
'It' turned out to be a moving van on a Nob Hill side-street, a sixteen-wheeler the size of one of the ubiquitous DHS trucks that still turned up on San Francisco's street corners, bristling with antennas. 
This one, though, said "Three Guys and a Truck Moving" on the side, and the three guys were very much in evidence, trekking in and out of a tall apartment building with a green awning. They were carrying crated furniture, neatly labeled boxes, loading them one at a time onto the truck and carefully packing them there. 
She walked us around the block once, apparently unsatisfied with something, then, on the next pass, she made eye-contact with the man who was watching the van, an older black guy with a kidney-belt and heavy gloves. He had a kind face and he smiled at us as she led us quickly, casually up the truck's three stairs and into its depth. "Under the big table," he said. "We left you some space there." 
“Who?” The word was slow and suspicious. 
My chest started to cramp in a way that had nothing to do with the healing wound or the wet bandages, and my headache suddenly felt twice as bad. I leaned against the wall next to the window. “Arthur neglected to mention I work with Rio, didn’t he.” 
“ That Rio?” 
“I assume so.” 
He made a choking sound. “Some of the things Arthur said make a lot more sense now. I’m going to kill him.” 
“I take it you’ve heard of Rio, too, then.” 
“Heard of—!” He cut himself off. I could practically hear him mentally rearranging his impression of me in light of the whole works-with-a-mass-murdering-sadist connection. I closed my eyes, heartily tired of this. “That name,” whispered Checker. “Some of the less-than-reputable people I’ve known, before I met Arthur—he terrifies them, beyond reason. It’s like he’s the boogie man. People invoke his name like he’s a demon or something. Cas Russell, I like you so far, but...” 
“I trust him,” I said, for what felt like the thousandth time. 
“So we drive down to Iowa and pick up your friend,” Nikko was saying. “Then what?” 
“We take him here,” I said, and showed him the map. 
S o we were on the road, but not without having an argument first. 
I called Monica and gave her a line about how I wanted to take a break and had a chance to stay overnight with a friend from school whose family had a lake cottage in Sibley County. “She says there’s a wood stove so it will be plenty warm enough and we won’t party or anything. It’s just me and her and her dog. He’s a good watchdog, so it will be totally safe.” 
It took her a while to respond. I hoped she was thinking about how someone from the Joint Terrorism Task Force could be lis- tening in before she made a decision. Besides, I’d planted clues. 
We both thought there were way too many monuments and places named after Henry Hastings Sibley, so I chose that county deliberately. I might have been a little heavy-handed when I added the watchdog stuff, but if she picked up on my Sibley clue, she probably also realized I was doing something risky, and I needed a way to tell her I would be careful. 
I prodded Halliday, and we belly-crawled until we were behind a rolling knoll of the bluff, right on the edge of the cliff with our feet practically dangling over the edge. We sat there and breathed, the sun in our eyes, while the bad guys ran. I kept the AK ready just in case, but to a man, our captors put their own preservation first. 
We sat for a long time after we’d heard the last engine peel away, the sun dipping toward the ocean in front of us. Then I clawed my way to my feet, grabbing onto the tough grasses behind us to steady myself. “We’d better get going, Professor. They might come back if they determine no one called this in.” 
She nodded and rolled onto all fours, crawling away from the edge before attempting to stagger upright herself. 
I limped over to join her, and we started back the way we had come, a weaving, drunken stumble back toward the bunkers. With the adrenaline receding, my legs shook and threatened to buckle at every step, and I was pretty sure the wound in my side was bleeding again. A lot. “You might have to drive,” I said, my voice scratching as badly as Halliday’s, each word barely making it out whole. 
Steve was there on the bed, comatose. I walked over and lifted his upper torso, then cradled his head in my arms. Baby, I love you. Please forgive me. Please. 
His eyes were firmly shut and he didn't stir in the slightest. He was in a deathlike stupor, and there were large bruises on his face and a bandage across his nose. Then his bed shift fell open and I noticed another bandage on his groin. 
"You've already done it!" I whirled back, ready to kill the bastard. 
"As I said, he was injected with a mild sedative." He had walked over and started taking Steve's pulse. "Given the . . . condition he was in, I decided to go with the simplest pro­cedure possible. After he was brought in, I made a small incision in the vas deferens and extracted a substantial quan­tity of motile sperm." He was turning down the lights. "Don't worry. I've performed the procedure before. The last was a Swedish tourist who was in a car accident up by Lake Atitlan and then lay in a coma in Guatemala City for weeks on end." 
What. The. Fuck. 
There was a plaque with my name on it and presumably there was an urn full of ashes behind that plaque and why the hell was there a stone cover here with my name on it? 
Maybe it was a different Cassandra Russell. 
The dates of birth and death were years only. One almost a quarter of a century previous—that fit, at least roughly. The other only a few years ago. 
Before I had considered it, I had grabbed one of the stanchions attached to some velvet rope barriers, dragging it forward so the rest of its fellows collapsed to the floor behind it in a cacophony, and bashed the base of it into the stone like a battering ram. 
The crack echoed through the building, off all the other quiet stone tablets. I smashed the stanchion into my name again and again, until the stone cracked and crumbled, until the fissures spread out in spider webs across neighboring cover stones. Then I threw the impromptu mallet to the floor and dug at the pieces, scrabbled at them until my fingers bled, tearing them out of the way until I could see inside. 
Pointless is a good word for it, for a whole host of things, really. Why he called Ray, for example. 
"What's going on, Rich?" 
The Chief kneels down by the corpse. He has a ballpoint pen in his hand, and he uses it like a laser pointer. "If this is a crime of rage, or an abduction, I expect to find contusions here—" He indicates the wrists. "Or around the throat. If the kid struggles at all, I assume that I'll find marks on the face, or bruises on the neck. Or I expect to find indications of epidermal punctures where the psycho jacked the kid up with meds to keep him docile. I've got none of that. And you know what else I don't have?" 
"Blood. Entrails. It didn't happen here. The body was dumped." 
Becker cranes his neck so he can see Ray's expression. "Why would you dump a body here of all places? You know it's going to be found eventually. If not in flight, at the very least when we hit port and start off loading. 
And that's not even the beginning of the oddities. Do you know how hard it is to kill someone on a starship? 
I wasn’t working anymore. And I don’t do well when I’m not working. 
The numbers simmered around me. I tried to avoid acknowledging them, instead staring into space and yearning for some alcohol. How had I not thought it necessary to stock some hard liquor in my bolt holes? Or even something stronger? The prospect of being stuck here for days with no liquid medication, with only myself against my brain... 
I gave myself a mental slap. Idiot. You can last for a few days. It’s only a few days! 
The quiet room seemed to mock me. 
I became hyper-aware of every breath, each one counting out another one of those seconds before everything would collapse, before I would fall—no, not counting another second, counting another 2.78 seconds. 2.569 seconds. 2.33402. 2.1077001. 1.890288224518154... 
I clenched tingling hands into fists and tried to slow my breathing, to curb the rising tide of panicky dread. Technically I was still on a job, I told myself: hide and then escape the city. Focus on that. 
When I'd finished the form, she took it back, along with the pen, then ushered me into the wide central courtyard where I'd met Alex Goddard the first time. He was nowhere to be seen, but in the bright late-morning sunshine there was a line of about twenty women, from late twenties to early forties, all dressed in white pajama-like outfits of the kind you see in judo classes, doing coordinated, slow-motion Tai Chi-like exercises. They were intent, their eyes fixed on the fringes of infinity. 
These must be some of his acolytes, I thought, the ones I heard in their nuns' cells the first time I was here. What on earth does all this orientalism have to do with fertility? I then found myself wondering. I've studied the Far East enough to do "penetrating" documentaries about it, and I still can't get pregnant. 
I took one look at them—none of them looked at me—and my heart went out. They were so sincere, so sure of what they were doing. For somebody who's always questioning everything, like me, it was touching, and maybe a little daunt­ing too. 
"You called, I came." He was now shifting from foot to foot. "Guess it finally had to happen. What's the phrase? You can run but you can't hide? Surprise us both and pretend you're happy to see me." 
"Jesus, man, I'm still working on the money, honest to God. But do I get a last cigarette before the firing squad?" 
"Hey, Alan, ease up." Steve was deadpan. "Good to see you again. I mean it. Love that Waikiki shirt, by the way. Never knew you had such progressive taste." 
"This is actually my incognito attire. For secret missions. It's my objective today to look like some cruise-ship jerk." He glanced around nervously. "So how'm I doing?" 
"I'd say your years of training in undercover work have paid off." 
"So bring me up to date." Steve was trying to hide his total contempt. "Why'd you get out of the spook business? Langley couldn't find a 'new mission' for you after the Evil Empire dissolved?" 
"Actually," Steve said cutting him off impatiently, all the while gazing up at the gathering dark clouds as though they were a hovering adversary, "the truth of the matter is, we called you to discuss a favor. A small helping hand." He seemed to be searching for a sales point. "For old times' sake." 
This M16 had been set on full auto, too. The weapon stuttered in my hands and Goon #1 jerked like a marionette with a bad puppet master before falling inelegantly back through a glass bookcase. 
I rolled up to my feet, my borrowed M16 pointed at the Grigoryan brother. Goon #2 had managed to collect his battered weapon and had it retrained on me, but I ignored him. 
“Impressive,” said the Grigoryan, his voice shaking a little. Damn well better be. Three goons neutralized in about two and a half seconds. I was good. “But now we have a standoff.” 
“Nah, I jammed up his weapon when I hit it,” I said, jerking my head toward Goon #2. “Thanks for giving your men M16s, by the way. AKs are a lot sturdier.” 
Grigoryan’s dark eyebrows drew together furiously and he glanced toward Goon #2, who tried to pull the trigger. A spectacular amount of nothing happened. 
“Bye now,” I said to Grigoryan, and slid carefully out of the room, keeping an eye on him the whole time. He stared at me as I left, his cigarette dangling forgotten from a corner of his mouth. 
“Well,” he said, “it’s hard to put it into words; but that’s not a wholesome sort of life for a young woman, shut away like that. The doctor says her health’s not good, but it’s my opinion that if she got about more—saw more people, you know—” 
Lexy felt a great pity for him. Apparently he did not even suspect what she was now sure of—that the unfortunate Muriel was hopelessly addicted to some drug, which her husband himself gave to her. 
“And I hope he’ll go back to India before he does find out,” she thought. “It’s too horrible—he worships her so!” 
“I’ve tried, you know,” he went on. “I wanted to take her into the city, to a concert. Seems confoundedly queer, doesn’t it, the way she’s lost interest in her music? She didn’t want to go. Then about the emerald—” 
“Oh!” said Lexy, who had forgotten about the emerald. 
“Chap I know designed a setting for it. It’s unset now, you know, and I thought I’d like to do that for her while I was here; but she doesn’t seem interested. I can’t even get her to let me see the thing. I’ve asked her two or three times, but she always puts me off. Do you think it bores her?” 
“What’s step one?” 
“Before we get into details,” I interrupted, “I just want to say Danny isn’t just good at this. He’s so good, you have no idea.” I raised my voice. “He’s amazing, and you couldn’t pay him enough for his talents because he’s a way better actor than you guys are, 
and we know exactly what’s going on here, don’t we?” 
“Congratulations, Danny, you did brilliantly.” 
Jack muttered into his collar as Marsh jumped out of his chair, 
swearing. Sarah swept the curtain aside and strode out, point- ing her camera at Jack and Marsh, firing questions. Danny sat with his mouth open, totally confused as a bunch of SWAT cops burst in through the kitchen, with more tromping onto the porch. 
I unlocked the front door for them. They hesitated for a moment, 
probably disappointed they didn’t get to use their battering ram, 
before one of them tackled me and the rest raced up the stairs to clear the house of dangerous terrorists. 
Good thing I had that phone number written on my arm. I was going to need it. 
The fact that his success fills him with such a rush of pleasure should be disturbing, should remind him exactly how pathetically techno-geek he has become. 
But it doesn't. 
Instead, he begins barking out commands, selecting files, navigating the hard disk of his terminal and downloading essential systems. Video drivers, imaging software, sound files. He doesn't know what the storage capacity on the helmet's system is, but he's willing to find out by cramming data into it until it explodes. As he goes, he launches applications, testing compatibility. Most of it works. What doesn't work is stuff he can live without. 
Later, he plunges through the terminal portal and connects to other ship systems, navigating all the standard structures for which he has clearance. It's all voice command, hacking along at the speed of thought. Mighty kung fu. 
But this is all just ramping up for the real project, really. He's configuring his system for optimum interface. 
With a word and a passcode authentication, he slides through a dead end portal, off the network proper and into an end-user box, what looks like another terminal. Except it isn't a terminal, but a server array. In fact, a server array that he could see with his actual and organically constructed eyes if he took the helmet off. 
"Good idea." 
Every once in a while, they come across a fluorescent pool, the light guttering, coloring their skin a haunted blue tint as though they were already corpses and just hadn't realized it yet. While the light lasted, they'd break out into a dead run, dashing as far as it carried them and a short way beyond. Certifiably insane was what it was. 
But that's also all it is— just insane. He keeps waiting for the terror to kick in, for his hands to start shaking and the numbing paralysis of fear to lock his joints and drive him into hyperventilation. For Kilgore and Rodriguez, it's just another live fire exercise or another combat mission in which they're not certain about the armament level of their opponent. For all they know, all they've been told, their opponent is still just a fantasy, 
a wholly human monster wrapped in a bogeyman costume like an actor in the movies. Ray has seen the shed.  He should know better than to be going after it, definitely better than to chase after with anything other than his heart hammering and his pulse throbbing in his throat and his thoughts a gyre of approaching panic. 
Well, yeah, but I still thought it highly unlikely the government had randomly murdered Martinez’s family. “I’m not her daughter,” I said. “I’m just a friend.” 
“Oh,” he said. “I have such respect for her people, you know. So in tune with nature all the time.” 
I wondered what Martinez would have thought of that. To be fair, I supposed mathematics was the greatest natural law of all. 
“The government doesn’t like her kind. I think that’s why she was in trouble. Maybe why she burned everything.” 
“Wait, what?” I said, my brain latching onto the one cogent piece of information. “She burned everything? What do you mean?” 
He poked his cane at the fire pit in the corner of the patio. “Night after night. I watched her do it. I thought, something’s gone wrong, good for you, you burn that evidence, you show them how it’s done. Are you her daughter?” 
“No,” I said again, and then wished I’d lied. “I’m, uh, a really good friend. When was this?” 
“Last week? Two weeks ago? Or was it longer...I get confused sometimes. What kind of trouble is she in?” 
"I see." It did have the ring of logic. And I had put down a different hotel. A safety measure. "Do you always take this much . . . interest in your fellow citizens?" 
"Only when they come to see me personally." He chuck­led. "So how's it going?" 
"Well, thanks for calling," I said. "Everything's moving along." 
"Good, good." There was another pause, then, "Inciden­tally, you having any luck finding that Ninos del Mundo place you were looking for?" 
I hesitated, wondering why he would ask and also unsure what to say. 
"Not yet," I volunteered. My God, it finally dawned on me. The guy was tracking me. He wanted to know what I knew. "You come up with anything at your end?" 
"I've been busy, a string of meetings, but I still think you might want to check out the phone book." It was the second time he'd made the suggestion. He was practically ordering me to do it. Why? "You never know. I'm afraid that's about the best I can do." 
"Maybe I will," I said. "I've been a little busy too." 
The phone call was feeling stranger and stranger. He was sending me to see something, probably in hopes it would make me go away. It was actually more unnerving than if he'd done nothing at all. 
Two years after the siege began, she awoke deaf. Mata was shaking her vigorously and her lips were moving, but there was no sound. Valentine listened hard and made out a distant, underwater sound that she couldn’t place, though it was familiar. 
Mata was thin and hard now, and slept with a gun and only came home for a few hours at a time. She was taking lots of different pills, and they made her a little jumpy. Valentine wondered if the pills had rendered her mother mute, before she realized that she couldn’t hear anything . 
She tapped her ear. 
“I can’t hear,” she said. 
Her mother didn’t appear to understand. She still shook Valentine hard. 
“I’m deaf, Mata,” she said. She shook her head and tugged her earlobes. She was scared now, and she sat up. She wiggled a finger in her ear, which was very greasy. Not even the sound of her finger in her ear carried back to her mind. Stone deaf. 
She was breathing heavily, but that happened a lot. The hunger made her weepy and she sometimes cried for no reason. Sometimes in the middle of a sentence she had to sit down and stare at the sky while her tears rolled down her throat, until she felt able to go on again. 
“Come on, I didn’t mean—” 
“Hey look, we’re here.” The dirty handful of buildings comprising Camarito slumped jumbled around us in the darkness. “This is where I was going. You can drop me anywhere.” 
Tresting stepped on the brake a trifle harder than he had to, and we jerked to a halt. “You owe me,” he said tightly. I’d forgotten how dangerous his tone could get. It was edging back toward that now. 
“I told you,” I said. I wondered if I had let myself get needled into being ornery, and whether that was wise, but it was too late to second-guess myself now. “I want to see your data. Prove to me that what you told me wasn’t the ravings of some crackpot, and I’ll share what I know.” 
I unbuckled the ridiculous seat belt, collected my saddlebag full of toys, and swung down from the truck. Tresting got out as well, apparently deciding for annoying. He came around the hood to face me. 
“You can find me here.” He flicked a business card at me, probably intending for it to flutter to the pavement, but I caught it out of the air without thinking about it—projectile motion with a nice muddle of air resistance mixed in; please, challenge me. “I think you still need what I got on this. And you owe me. I saved your ass today.” 
“Mrs. Enderby, I—I can’t do it!” 
“You can, Miss Moran, and I think you will.” 
But Lexy was pretty close to desperation now. Her honest and vigorous spirit was entangled in a network of promises and obligations and deceptions, and she could not see how to free herself; but she would not passively submit. 
“No,” she said, “I can’t. I’ve found out something—I can’t tell you about it just now, but this afternoon I hope—” 
“This afternoon is another thing,” said Mrs. Enderby. “In the meantime—” 
“But it’s important! It’s—” 
“You think I do not know? You think this letter sets my mind at rest?” Mrs. Enderby demanded, with one of her sudden flashes of temper. “That is imbecile! I know how serious it is that my child should leave me like this; but I know what is my duty—first, to my husband. That first, I tell you! It is for me to see that no disgrace comes upon his house, no scandal—that first! Then, next, I must see to it that the way is left open for Caroline to come back—if she wishes.” She came close to Lexy, and fixed those black eyes of hers upon the girl’s face. “I tell you, Miss Moran, there will be no scandal!” 
Ray chews his lip thoughtfully, then says, "Because you hate me? Because you know I don't have a permanent berth and need to stay in your good graces if I want a job next time out? Or maybe just because I'm gullible. " 
He grins widely, but Ziggy only shakes his head. 
"It's because you know how to treat the hardware, son. You've got the right priorities and you make the right decisions under pressure. You do your job without any fuss and without screwing around with the politics. 
The other vets don't seem to see the situation with the correct level of clarity." 
"Bunch of pussies." Ray makes sure to crack the smile a bit wider. "Does that mean I can have your job when you quit?" 
"I don't think so." 
At least they've cleared that up. "Well, thanks for the pep talk, boss. It's good to know I'm appreciated." 
Ziggy hauls himself back to his feet, once more the scowling, hand-on-hip administrative juggernaut. He sighs heavily, as though their interaction has taxed the reserves of patience he was only pretending to possess. 
She sighed and flicked her eyes at her workspace, then quickly away. Her workspace must have been even more cluttered than mine; I had taken extraordinary measures to prevent alerts from bubbling up on mine; she didn't have the chops to do the same with hers. If mine was unusable, hers must have been terrifying. 
"I don't know, Odell. Maybe. There's a lot to consider here. You're right about one thing: BIGMAC's turned the heat up on me. Explain to me again why you can't just unplug his network connection?" 
It was my turn to sigh. "He doesn't have one connection. He has hundreds. Interlinked microwave relays to the other labs. A satellite connection. The wirelines -- three of them." I started to think. "OK, I could cut the main fiber to the Institute, actually cut it, you know, with scissors, just in case he's in the routers there. Then I could call up our wireless suppliers and terminate our accounts. They'd take 24 hours to process the order, and, wait, no -- They'd want to verify the disconnect order with a certificate-signed message, and for that I'd have to clear my workspace. That's another 24 hours, minimum. And then --" 
> I had a burst appendix the day afterward and ended up in the infirmary. In the next bed was a guy named Darryl. We were both in recovery for a long time and by the time we got well, we were too much of an embarrassment to them to let go. 
> So they decided we must really be guilty. They questioned us every day. You've been through their questioning, I know. Imagine it for months. Darryl and I ended up cell-mates. We knew we were bugged, so we only talked about inconsequentialities. But at night, when we were in our cots, we would softly tap out messages to each other in Morse code (I knew my HAM radio days would come in useful sometime). 
> At first, their questions to us were just the same crap as ever, who did it, how'd they do it. But after a little while, they switched to asking us about the Xnet. Of course, we'd never heard of it. That didn't stop them asking. 
> Darryl told me that they brought him arphid cloners, Xboxes, all kinds of technology and demanded that he tell them who used them, where they learned to mod them. Darryl told me about your games and the things you learned. 
“So, I kind of have to get going,” I said when I realized we weren’t even talking about Wilson anymore. I stood up and reached for the coat I’d slung onto the couch while I was under the desk getting to know the dust bunnies. I found the stupid hat jammed into my pocket and pulled it on. I wasn’t so embarrassed by it now that I’d met the famous lawyer, whose white hair was falling out of its pins, whose sweater had something...  down the front. 
She looked at her watch. “Goodness, it’s late. I’ll call a cab.” 
“No, I have my bike.” 
“Nonsense. It’s dark outside. It’s freezing.” 
“It’s fine, but Monica’s going to worry if I’m not home when she gets off. So, what happens tomorrow?” 
“Your brother will have a chance to meet with us.” 
“When do we get to see him?” 
“Sorry. Not you. His legal representatives.” 
“He can’t have family members visit?” 
“Unlikely, at this point. We’re making arrangements to rep- resent all of the young people who were arrested, except for the informant, who has his own lawyer. Since he won’t be talking to us we’ll need to do some research on him.” 
She said it in that snooty voice that really means “go away.” 
She didn’t look much like her pictures, the ones of her with white hair piled up in a complicated braided hairdo that looked a little like those wigs lawyers in England stick on top of their real hair. 
Her pinned-up hair was all undone on one side and halfway falling down on the other. Also, she looked mad. Like angry-mad combined with crazy-mad. 
“My brother needs a lawyer.” 
“He’s in luck. Law schools have been pumping them out like crazy. He won’t have any trouble finding one. Just lift a rock.” Her voice didn’t sound as old and frail as she looked. It was sharp and snobby. 
“No, I mean he needs you.” 
“Don’t be silly. Nobody needs me.” 
“Asif Ranjha and Xavier Jackson needed you.” 
“Charming. You’ve done your homework.” 
“It’s all online.” 
“I’m sure that’s where you do all of your homework. Much eas- ier than actual research, I’m told. Well, it was a waste of your time. 
I’m retired.” She started to close the door. It got stuck on the piles of mail. 
"I guess she'll be able to write down her own pieces," said Mr. Cobb confidently; "she could make 'em up faster 'n she could read 'em out of a book." 
"It's a pity she's so plain looking," remarked Mrs. Cobb, blowing out the candle. 
"PLAIN LOOKING, mother?" exclaimed her husband in astonishment. "Look at the eyes of her; look at the hair of her, an' the smile, an' that there dimple! Look at Alice Robinson, that's called the prettiest child on the river, an' see how Rebecca shines her ri' down out o' sight! I hope Mirandy'll favor her comin' over to see us real often, for she'll let off some of her steam here, an' the brick house'll be consid'able safer for everybody concerned. We've known what it was to hev children, even if 't was more 'n thirty years ago, an' we can make allowances." 
Notwithstanding the encomiums of Mr. and Mrs. Cobb, Rebecca made a poor hand at composition writing at this time. Miss Dearborn gave her every sort of subject that she had ever been given herself: Cloud Pictures; Abraham Lincoln; Nature; Philanthropy; Slavery; Intemperance; Joy and Duty; Solitude; but with none of them did Rebecca seem to grapple satisfactorily. 
"Mirandy 's smart enough," said Mrs. Cobb, "but you notice she stays right to home, and she's more close-mouthed than ever she was; never took a mite o' pride in the prize, as I could see, though it pretty nigh drove Jeremiah out o' his senses. I thought I should 'a' died o' shame when he cried 'Hooray!' and swung his straw hat when the governor shook hands with Rebecca. It's lucky he couldn't get fur into the church and had to stand back by the door, for as it was, he made a spectacle of himself. My suspicion is"—and here every lady stopped eating and sat up straight—"that the Sawyer girls have lost money. They don't know a thing about business 'n' never did, and Mirandy's too secretive and contrairy to ask advice." 
"The most o' what they've got is in gov'ment bonds, I always heard, and you can't lose money on them. Jane had the timber land left her, an' Mirandy had the brick house. She probably took it awful hard that Rebecca's fifty dollars had to be swallowed up in a mortgage, 'stead of goin' towards school expenses. The more I think of it, the more I think Adam Ladd intended Rebecca should have that prize when he gave it." The mind of Huldah's mother ran towards the idea that her daughter's rights had been assailed. 
So it went, through the next hour or so, everyone taking pictures and making keys. I got to meet everyone there. I knew a lot of them -- some were my invitees -- and the others were friends of my pals or my pals' pals. We should all be buddies. We were, by the time the night was out. They were all good people. 
Once everyone was done, Jolu went to make a key, and then turned away, giving me a sheepish grin. I was past my anger with him, though. He was doing what he had to do. I knew that no matter what he said, he'd always be there for me. And we'd been through the DHS jail together. Van too. No matter what, that would bind us together forever. 
I did my key and did the perp-walk around the gang, letting everyone snap a pic. Then I climbed up on the high spot I'd spoken from earlier and called for everyone's attention. 
"So a lot of you have noted that there's a vital flaw in this procedure: what if this laptop can't be trusted? What if it's secretly recording our instructions? What if it's spying on us? What if Jose-Luis and I can't be trusted?" 
"Well, I can't hide it, so I'm going to have to nuke it." Killing arphids is a dark art. No merchant wants malicious customers going for a walk around the shop-floor and leaving behind a bunch of lobotomized merchandise that is missing its invisible bar-code, so the manufacturers have refused to implement a "kill signal" that you can radio to an arphid to get it to switch off. You can reprogram arphids with the right box, but I hate doing that to library books. It's not exactly tearing pages out of a book, but it's still bad, since a book with a reprogrammed arphid can't be shelved and can't be found. It just becomes a needle in a haystack. 
That left me with only one option: nuking the thing. Literally. 30 seconds in a microwave will do in pretty much every arphid on the market. And because the arphid wouldn't answer at all when D checked it back in at the library, they'd just print a fresh one for it and recode it with the book's catalog info, and it would end up clean and neat back on its shelf. 
“You don’t remember me?” 
Her tooth tingled. The one that had been knocked out in the trench and re-sprouted after the siege. Then she recognized him. 
“ Withnail? ” 
He hopped in place. “Valentine! You remembered!” 
She put her hand to her breast and staggered back dramatically, hamming it up. He was still very handsome, and she’d never forgotten her first kiss. 
“What the hell are you doing here?” 
“I have a layover,” he said. “Tokyo tomorrow. But I wanted to stop and see the place—” 
“Remember the dead?” she said. He had been the enemy, after all. How many of her countrymen had he shot? 
“Remember,” he said. “Remember everything.” 
How many of his comrades had died on the day the death rained from the sky? Surely they had died in great number on that day. 
The woods were full of her dead. Mata was there. And there was the movie tonight. She touched the medal on her lapel. He had no medal. The soldiers who’d persecuted the siege received no medals. 
“You’re here until when?” 
“Tomorrow,” he said, “first thing.” 
When I settled into the cluttered corner room that was my office, I told myself this was not a day to make any big decisions. Just stick to matters that required nothing more than autopilot. 
The first thing I did was call Lou to check on Sarah (no change), and then I told him about my Hispanic visitor. He made concerned sounds and promised to accompany me on any further location shoots. 
Next I pulled out my date book and punched in a phone number I'd scribbled in the back. I'd gotten it when I was winding up my interview with Carly Grove. 
"Children of Light," said an unctuous voice. "This is Ramala." 
I hesitated a moment before giving my name. They already knew who I was; Ramala or somebody had called Paula Marks and asked about me. Me. What would she do when she heard it was yours truly in the flesh? 
I tried to take a deep breath, working around the feeling my lungs were on fire, and identified myself. 
Ramala received the information as though she'd never heard of me. Maybe she hadn't. Then I asked for an appoint­ment with Alex Goddard. As soon as it was convenient. 
“Another cup, Miss Moran?” asked Mrs. Quelton. 
“Yes, thank you,” answered Lexy, and the doctor brought it to her. 
Poor Captain Grey and his precious, new-found sister! The sound of his voice brought tears to her eyes. 
“But this is idiotic!” she thought, annoyed and surprised. 
Still the tears welled up. She gulped down the rest of her tea hastily, hoping that it would steady her, but it did not help at all. Sobs rose in her throat, and an immense and formless sorrow came over her. 
“This has got to stop!” she thought, in alarm. “I can’t be such a chump!” 
She turned to Mrs. Quelton. 
“Are you going to grow any—” she began, but her voice was so unsteady that she had to stop for a moment. “Any flowers in—in your—g-garden?” 
The question ended in a loud and unmistakable sob. They all turned to look at her, startled and anxious. 
She made a desperate effort to regain control of herself. 
“S-snapdragon,” she said. “So—so p-pretty!” 
Then, suddenly, all her defenses gave way. The teacup fell from her hand and was shattered on the floor, and, burying her head in her arms, she cried as she had never cried in her life. 
It turned out that she'd covered the crypto wars, the period in the early nineties when civil liberties groups like the Electronic Frontier Foundation fought for the right of Americans to use strong crypto. I dimly knew about that period, but Barbara explained it in a way that made me get goose-pimples. 
It's unbelievable today, but there was a time when the government classed crypto as a munition and made it illegal for anyone to export or use it on national security grounds. Get that? We used to have illegal math in this country. 
The National Security Agency were the real movers behind the ban. They had a crypto standard that they said was strong enough for bankers and their customers to use, but not so strong that the mafia would be able to keep its books secret from them. The standard, DES-56, was said to be practically unbreakable. Then one of EFF's millionaire co-founders built a $250,000 DES-56 cracker that could break the cipher in two hours. 
Still the NSA argued that it should be able to keep American citizens from possessing secrets it couldn't pry into. Then EFF dealt its death-blow. In 1995, they represented a Berkeley mathematics grad student called Dan Bernstein in court. Bernstein had written a crypto tutorial that contained computer code that could be used to make a cipher stronger than DES-56. Millions of times stronger. As far as the NSA was concerned, that made his article into a weapon, and therefore unpublishable. 
“Oh, right. I need to meet with Sarah.” I finally had a cup of cof- fee steaming front of me, but no time to drink it. “I’d better get going.” 
“My cell phone number — ” 
“Got it.” 
She hobbled over to a kitchen drawer and rummaged through it, then handed me a Sharpie. “Write it on your arm. If you’re arrested, they’ll take your phone.” 
Zeke was curled up on the couch of the tenth floor suite, snor- ing loudly, and Nikko was sprawled sideways on a king-sized bed, 
hugging a pillow as if it were a teddy bear. “Up all night editing,” 
Sarah whispered as we slipped into the adjoining room. The others had left for the airport after the conference ended, but Tyler had agreed to pay for the suite for as long as she needed it, so long as his company got a film credit. 
I switched on my laptop, checked to make sure the part of the video I didn’t want anyone to see, ever, was completely edited out, 
and copied it to a USB drive. As she downloaded it to her Mac, 
I filled her in on what had happened and the meeting that was scheduled for noon today. “I have to get back there and film what happens.” 
Mrs. Robinson had company only once or twice a year, and was generally much prostrated for several days afterward, the struggle between pride and parsimony being quite too great a strain upon her. It was necessary, in order to maintain her standing in the community, to furnish a good "set out," yet the extravagance of the proceeding goaded her from the first moment she began to stir the marble cake to the moment when the feast appeared upon the table. 
The rooster had been boiling steadily over a slow fire since morning, but such was his power of resistance that his shape was as firm and handsome in the pot as on the first moment when he was lowered into it. 
"He ain't goin' to give up!" said Alice, peering nervously under the cover, "and he looks like a scarecrow." 
"We'll see whether he gives up or not when I take a sharp knife to him," her mother answered; "and as to his looks, a platter full o' gravy makes a sight o' difference with old roosters, and I'll put dumplings round the aidge; they're turrible fillin', though they don't belong with boiled chicken." 
“I take it you’ve heard of Rio, too, then.” 
“Heard of—!” He cut himself off. I could practically hear him mentally rearranging his impression of me in light of the whole works-with-a-mass-murdering-sadist connection. I closed my eyes, heartily tired of this. “That name,” whispered Checker. “Some of the less-than-reputable people I’ve known, before I met Arthur—he terrifies them, beyond reason. It’s like he’s the boogie man. People invoke his name like he’s a demon or something. Cas Russell, I like you so far, but...” 
“I trust him,” I said, for what felt like the thousandth time. 
“To do what?” 
That was a good question. What did trust mean, exactly? “To have my back,” I said. 
“I have to think about this.” 
“He got Arthur and me out of there.” 
“He did?” 
“Yes. I told you, I trust him.” I tried for impatient, but the words just came out drained. 
“He’s after Pithica?” 
“Yes.” 
“I have to think about this,” said Checker again. “I’ll—I’ll call you back.” 
He hung up the phone and I leaned my head against the wall. The pounding of the rain reverberated through it, a steady thrum. A moment ago I’d been so hopeful. So sure we had a chance, that we could do this, but for the first time I could remember, I needed help to make it happen, and nobody wanted to jump with me. Why did everything involving people have to be so difficult? 
“Totally.” 
“Sorry I made you come all the way down here when you have so much on your mind.” 
“That’s okay. You know that extreme privacy we practiced? It’s coming in handy We’ve been a pretty good team, actually, figuring out how to get here without leaving a trail or getting caught.” 
“Yet,” he said, then gave me a twisted smile to take the sting out. 
“It was a lot of fun, hanging out with you. I didn’t know how much I’d miss that. I mean, it’s not like I have friends to spare, you know?” 
“Me either.” 
“Well, there’s that guy who gave me your note.” 
He laughed. “That was a long shot. I mean, he stopped and helped, and that was awesome. The bulls would have found me, 
and I’d be locked up by now. But I began to think . . . why would he go to all that trouble? He didn’t even know me, really.” 
“He said he owed you a favor.” 
“Yeah, but so what? People let you down.” 
I thought about the few things he’d told me about growing up. 
Getting dropped off with relatives when he was in the way. Taking care of himself when his parents were too spaced out to remember he was even there. 
I waved off the pills. Not that I didn’t need them—everything ached, and my muscles felt stitched onto my bones as if I were a poor version of Pinocchio. But I wanted to be awake. “Been better,” I said. “I guess I’ve also been worse, though.” I leaned back on the couch. Sitting up was about as far as I felt I could manage for the moment. “What’s going on? What was wrong with Martinez? Is she okay now?” 
Arthur shoved his hands in his pockets and stared down at a point on the floor for a long second. “She has a brain tumor,” he said. 
I couldn’t process the words. “What?” 
“Looks like she’s had it for a while,” added Arthur. “She got...the docs say she only got a little longer now—days, maybe weeks. Unlikely she’ll wake up again.” 
“No,” I whispered. The word choked me. No. No. 
Arthur cocked his head at me in frank surprise, and I dropped my eyes. I hadn’t been worried about Martinez, not really. Even after everything. 
Guilt flamed up in my gut, and I wished I were a better person. Or one who didn’t have a conscience at all, because navigating life would be so much easier if I didn’t, and I could say fuck the world and rail at the loss of the proof that would save me, the unfairness of it, with vicious, screaming anger. I wanted to curl up in despair and drink myself into a stupor, because this was the end—the end of hope, the end of one great shining beacon of knowledge that a single woman had selfishly and unilaterally decided to hide, and it wasn’t right, and when I thought of Martinez it wasn’t grief that welled up but a white-hot fury as if she’d reached into my brain and crippled me herself. Because for all intents and purposes, she had. And fuck if I was going to mourn her, and fuck what my friends thought. 
He said, "I don't mean it in a bad way, really. I thought you were naive enough to just do the job, take the perks, and sleep well at night. I was wrong. You're too smart." 
It didn't make me feel any better. I went back and sat on the sofa and put on a movie, Horsefeathers. 
Rhindquist watched the movie with me, and when it was over, he said, "You don't have to do the job." 
I said, "So what now? You pick some other poor retard and give him the old screw-job?" 
He said, "I guess so." 
I said, "In that case, I'll do it." 
His mouth dropped. He sat down and put on a movie, Pink Flamingos. What a sick movie! 
When it was over, he said, "In that case, I'll do it." 
And then I had the best idea I've ever had. It was so good, I couldn't say anything for five whole minutes. Mom, you sure didn't raise any idiots! 
Hi Mom! 
Well, today was just fine . Me and Rhindquist got to the garage in the nick of time and it's a good thing that he turned our watches down because they give me a headache! 
We got to Finance 38 and I started lifting the boxes and Rhindquist as usual took too long to push them. The security guard and me both laughed at the big pile of boxes outside the truck, and he offered me a smoke, but I said no thanks. 
I went inside and told Rhindquist to Get it in gear! And he just tossed me the paper he was reading. It said MEMO TO ALL EMPLOYEES REGARDING NEW SECURITY MEASURES. And underneath, it said, EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY ALL AC OUTLETS ARE TO BE COVERED WHEN NOT IN USE. 
We laughed and laughed and laughed, and then my watch blipped back on even though Rhindquist had turned it off! It said, "Laugh it up, retards!" in Tony's voice. 
Rhindquist put his arm around my shoulders and said Jap my prodigy, when you are right, you are right . He's the perfect man for the job. 
Sean had a way of getting his way -- a way of delivering argument that implied that everyone in earshot was savvy and bold, and that the diatribe-du-jour was directed at the Enemies of Art ranged without. His thesis advisor bought it every time. Sean turned in his due-diligence, a bunch of theses written in the last century: collected memoirs of the survivors of electroshock, lobotomies, thalidomide. His advisor signed off and within twenty-four hours, he was debarking in Orlando and renting a car to take him to the Home. 
We arrived at Leena Kingsley’s house fifty-two minutes after we’d left Tresting’s office. The drive had been mostly silent—Tresting was lost in his own thoughts, and for my own part, I figured our détente was too touchy and fragile, and going into a possibly-hostile situation wasn’t the time to mess with it. 
Tresting cruised by the first time without slowing. A cop car sat on the street outside, but only one, and its lights weren’t flashing. The small house was still—no sign that anything was amiss, and no neighbors gawking. It didn’t look like there had been a shootout here. 
Of course, that didn’t mean anything. This was a nice residential neighborhood, with well-groomed yards and picket fences and rosebushes, and Pithica liked subtle. 
Tresting circled the block and then pulled over a few houses prior to Dr. Kingsley’s. He reached into the duffel he’d brought the shotgun in, pulled out a scope, and held it up to one eye. “Can’t see much,” he said after a moment. “But there’s movement. Think she and the cops are talking.” 
“I shouldn’t have said that. Look, Bree thinks the FBI’s anti- terrorist program has put a lot of innocent people in prison. 
That’s why she went to the protest. She has a car and can help with the driving. Oh, and she took a first aid course last year. How perfect is that?” 
“The more people who know about this, the more risky it is.” 
“One more person. Who I vouch for.” 
“One more person who might get arrested, get her life pushed completely off course.” 
“That worries me, sure, but I don’t know who else to ask who I would trust like I trust her.” 
“You only met her two weeks ago, right? Maybe she got close to you for a reason.” 
“Like, she’s working for the FBI? Why would they pick me? 
I’m not politically active. I didn’t know any of those people they arrested. It wouldn’t make sense.” 
“Yeah. I guess,” I grumbled. 
“Do you know anyone else we can ask? I’m open to other sug- gestions.” 
I couldn’t think of any, but the thought of spending a long car ride with the purple-haired girl pissed me off. “No, I don’t know anybody else,” I finally said, which made me feel even worse. Mon- ica was always on my case about getting out more, having a social life. I had always felt like I had enough friends in the Group with- out having to try to fit in with people who didn’t bother to try to fit in with me. 
looking very thoughtful about his contribution to the discussion. 
But John Robert shakes his head. "Why would he care about that? He knows how to escape from the prison. 
Remember when Carok made that clone of King Tayne and kidnapped him? The clone put Shadow in the prison and he was only there for about five minutes before he escaped." 
It goes on. On and on, for almost fifteen minutes while the episode they had intended to watch clamors on in the background, unnoticed. Ray pitches in where he can get a word, not certain whether he's inciting them or settling some of the more finely nuanced points of contention. He attempts to argue the pro-kissing position, 
but it's a difficult sell with this audience. The consensus opinion seems to be that most soldiers would rather blast girls than kiss them. He's on the verge of offering some intimate anecdotal evidence to the contrary, but Emma gives him a sharp jab to the ribs with her elbow before he can get properly started. 
It would probably go on for several more minutes with the youngsters getting increasingly agitated and red-faced, finger pointing and pouting, while the older ones moved to the corners of the room and plugged away at their games and compads, but the tutors finally intervene, sweep in to hush them. The ultimate threat is issued: hold your voices down or there will be no more Captain Shadow for the rest of the week. The argument ends like they've lopped the head of it off with an axe, though a clandestine war of hand gestures and silent raspberries ensues in the aftermath. 
“But who are you?” cried Lexy. 
His face flushed under the sunburn. 
“I—” he began, and stopped. “I’m afraid I can’t tell you,” he went on. “I’d like to, but, you see, I can’t. If you’ll just tell me where Car—Miss Enderby is! She’s safe at home, isn’t she? She—of course she is! She must be! She—she is, isn’t she?” 
“Well,” said Lexy slowly, “I don’t see how I can tell you anything at all. I don’t know what right you have to ask any questions. I don’t know who you are, or anything about you.” 
“No,” he replied, “I know that; but, after all, it’s not much of a question, is it—just if Miss Enderby’s all right?” 
Lexy felt very sorry for him, in his obvious struggle to speak quietly and reasonably. She wanted to answer him promptly and candidly, for his sake and for her own, because she felt sure that he could tell her something about Caroline; but she had promised Mrs. Enderby to say nothing. 
“It’s so silly!” she thought, exasperated. “If I could tell him, I might find out—” 
“Find out what? Hadn’t Caroline written to say that she had gone away to get married? In a day or two, probably to-morrow, they would learn all the details from Caroline herself. This unhappy young man couldn’t know anything. Indeed, he was asking for information. Who could he possibly be? A rival suitor? Lexy remembered Caroline’s pitifully restricted life. Two suitors of whom she had never heard? It wasn’t possible! 
I had three thousand projects I'd been in the middle of when it had all started. I was building a pinhole camera out of legos, I'd been playing with aerial kite photography using an old digital camera with a trigger hacked out of silly putty that was stretched out at launch and slowly snapped back to its original shape, triggering the shutter at regular intervals. I had a vacuum tube amp I'd been building into an ancient, rusted, dented olive-oil tin that looked like an archaeological find -- once it was done, I'd planned to build in a dock for my phone and a set of 5.1 surround-sound...  over my workbench and finally picked up the pinhole camera. Methodically snapping legos together was just about my speed. 
I took off my watch and the chunky silver two-finger ring that showed a monkey and a ninja squaring off to fight and dropped them into the little box I used for all the crap I load into my pockets and around my neck before stepping out for the day: phone, wallet, keys, wifinder, change, batteries, retractable cables... I dumped it all out into the box, and found myself holding something I didn't remember putting in there in the first place. 
Leon opened his mouth, closed it. He couldn't help himself, he snorted a laugh. "Really?" 
Brautigan nodded. 
"And what if none of the machines worked?" 
"If that man couldn't do it, then his rival, who also lives on the monster's estate, who has developed the second-most-exciting liver replacement technology in the history of the world, who burns to try it on the man in the vat -- that man would be there in ten minutes, and the first man, and his family --" 
"Executed?" 
Brautigan made a disappointed noise. "Come on, he's a quadrillionaire, not a Bond villain. No, that man would be demoted to nearly nothing, but given one tiny chance to redeem himself: invent a technology better than the one that's currently running in place of the vat-man's liver, and you will be restored to your fine place with your fine clothes and your wealth and your privilege." 
"And if he fails?" 
Brautigan shrugged. "Then the man in the vat is out an unmeasurably minuscule fraction of his personal fortune. He takes the loss, applies for a research tax-credit for it, and deducts it from the pittance he deigns to send to the IRS every year." 
Holcomb's voice comes from the speaker in Ray's ear, cool and clinical. "He's summoned it, the Devourer. 
We're too late." 
Impossible. 
"I would suggest that we withdraw, Gunnery Sergeant. Before we're seen." 
Ray does not think, cannot think that way. His mind is not wired for comprehension. Consciousness drops, 
sinking below the higher brain functions, burying him in the cool and reptilian stem where thought dies and instinct emerges and primal shadows lurk in cavernous, midnight kingdoms walled off by evolution. He forgets about things like concentrated fire and three round bursts and center of mass. He just sprays bullets into anything that seems prone to moving. Back and forth, like a man watering flowers on a Saturday afternoon. 
The worshippers have no time to react, no space in which to escape, and when Ray fires, his squad erupts in a supporting chorus. For a time, all Ray can hear is the bang and thunderous echo of gunfire. A cacophony of violence shreds bodies, sprays blood, mists the air of the dome with a tangy, cordite haze. He makes dead certain that he plugs Brezhnaya, pops him in the center of his forehead, opens a round hole like a third eye, 
"I don't think we can take them off the ward," Sean grunted, changing lanes for the airport exit. 
"You're probably right," Adele said. "I was just thinking that Universal might be enough to keep them both switched on." 
Sean shot her a look and nearly missed his exit. 
Adele rattled a laugh at him. "Don't look so surprised. I know which end is up!" 
Sean pursed his lips and navigated the ramp-maze that guarded the airport. He pulled up to the loading zone at Air Canada arrivals and switched off the engine. He looked past Adele at the tourists jockeying for cabs. "I'm sorry about yesterday. I guess I'm a little wound up." 
"Yesterday?" Adele said. "Oh! By the pool!" She put a frail hand on his forearm. "Sean, you don't get to my age by holding grudges. Ethan's father -- he held grudges, and it killed him. Heart attack. He never forgave the doctors. I'm just happy to have a chauffeur." 
Sean swallowed hard. "I'm sure that somewhere, Ethan knows that you're visiting him, that you love him. He's in there." He said it with all the sincerity he could muster. 
“We can solve,” I said. 
If we could understand, we could create. 
Those mathematical leaps of intuition would no longer be mysterious. No longer be something unquantifiable and out of my reach. Because I wouldn’t need them anymore. Martinez’s proof might break the world, but it would also let me do math again. 
Holy God. I had to find Martinez. We would find her, and I would make her tell me. 
“She was trying to protect me,” said Halliday, still staring fixedly at the note. “Mathematics is...it’s everything to us. If a computer can replicate what we do, if there’s nothing special about human mathematical intuition...” I couldn’t see her face in the darkness. “She must have thought something in my own proof was getting close, that it was leading toward the breakthrough for hers. I—I think she overestimated me, as I don’t see how, but...” 
“So let me get this straight,” said Arthur. “She works this out, then she suddenly cottons on to what it means, so she destroys it?” 
“She thought she was saving the world,” Halliday said. “Maybe she was.” 
"That wasn't right, it was silly, Emma Jane; but I'll tell you where it might come in—in Give me Three Grains of Corn. You be the mother, and I'll be the famishing Irish child. For pity's sake put the axe down; you are not the woodman any longer!" 
"What'll I do with my hands, then?" asked Emma Jane. 
"Whatever you like," Rebecca answered wearily; "you're just a mother—that's all. What does YOUR mother do with her hands? Now here goes! 
This sort of thing made Emma Jane nervous and fidgety, but she was Rebecca's slave and hugged her chains, no matter how uncomfortable they made her. 
At the last pair of bars the two girls were sometimes met by a detachment of the Simpson children, who lived in a black house with a red door and a red barn behind, on the Blueberry Plains road. Rebecca felt an interest in the Simpsons from the first, because there were so many of them and they were so patched and darned, just like her own brood at the home farm. 
The little schoolhouse with its flagpole on top and its two doors in front, one for boys and the other for girls, stood on the crest of a hill, with rolling fields and meadows on one side, a stretch of pine woods on the other, and the river glinting and sparkling in the distance. It boasted no attractions within. All was as bare and ugly and uncomfortable as it well could be, for the villages along the river expended so much money in repairing and rebuilding bridges that they were obliged to be very economical in school privileges. The teacher's desk and chair stood on a platform in one corner; there was an uncouth stove, never blackened oftener than once a year, a map of the United States, two black-boards, a ten-quart tin pail of water and long-handled dipper on a corner shelf, and wooden desks and benches for the scholars, who only numbered twenty in Rebecca's time. The seats were higher in the back of the room, and the more advanced and longer-legged pupils sat there, the position being greatly to be envied, as they were at once nearer to the windows and farther from the teacher. 
Whether or not the rooms had been in use, they were all set up to explode, though fortunately the setup was a lot clearer than I’d feared. The wiring crawled over the whole outside perimeter, cupping the second floor in a deadly closed circuit. What looked like military-grade plastic explosives were packed against all the support pillars. Foil wire spiderwebbed over the windows—that must have been what I’d tripped on the third story—and floor mats lined the walking space next to the walls. Any pressure on the mats would flip a relay and make the whole circuit detonate, I was sure. 
I also saw now why the third floor had gone without triggering the others: they’d armed this as a demolition trap, with the bottom two stories going off first to start the implosion and then setting off the explosives above them almost instantly, leading in a mathematically neat way to the complete implosion of the building. 
Which wasn’t even necessary. Destroying the ground floor this way would have led to the collapse of the levels above it anyway, so they could have kept only the bottom floor set and connected any breach of their security system to that—but they hadn’t. 
Later, he plunges through the terminal portal and connects to other ship systems, navigating all the standard structures for which he has clearance. It's all voice command, hacking along at the speed of thought. Mighty kung fu. 
But this is all just ramping up for the real project, really. He's configuring his system for optimum interface. 
With a word and a passcode authentication, he slides through a dead end portal, off the network proper and into an end-user box, what looks like another terminal. Except it isn't a terminal, but a server array. In fact, a server array that he could see with his actual and organically constructed eyes if he took the helmet off. 
He's just hacked into the diagnostic unit across the room. 
He pauses for several seconds, reviewing his plans for logical failures. It makes his palms sweat. The first thing he does is sort the file structure into server array functions and unit functions. The unit functions on this  machine are a small subset with two master files, one marked simply Input Data and the other 7244 Ident Struct. The first file is massive, pregnant with uploaded data, a storm of binary records. The second is small, 
The rain was still falling steadily, and the little room was dim, chilly, and, to Lexy, unbearably close. She wasn’t particularly hungry, either, after such a hearty breakfast and no exercise. She felt restless and uneasy. When Mrs. Royce went out into the kitchen to fetch the dessert, she jumped up from the table, crossed the room, and opened the window. 
The wild rain blew against her face, and it felt good to her. She drew in a long breath of the fresh, damp air, and sighed with relief. 
“I’m going to go out this afternoon,” she said to herself, “if it rains pitchforks! I can’t—” 
Just then she caught sight of Captain Grey coming down the road. Her first impulse was to call out a cheerful salutation, but after a second glance she felt no inclination for that. He was tramping along doggedly through the rain, his hands in his pockets, his collar turned up. He was as straight and soldierly as ever, but his face was pale, with such a queer look on it! 
“Oh, dear!” thought Lexy. “Something’s gone wrong! Oh, the poor soul! And he set off so happy this morning.” 
“No,” he said. “Where?” 
“Less than 20 centimeters above you.” 
Well of course he hadn’t see her. His forward-mounted eyes only looked forward. Craning his neck back, he could just get far enough back to see the tip of Kate’s fin. He gave it a hard tug and she looked down in alarm. 
She was trapped in a coral cage much like his own, a thicket of calcified arms. She twisted around so that her face was alongside of his. Frantically, she made the out-of-air sign, cutting the edge of her hand across her throat. The human-shell’s instincts took over and unclipped his emergency regulator and handed it up to her. She put it in her mouth, pressed the button to blow out the water in it, and sucked greedily. 
He shoved his gauge in front of her mask, showing her that he, too was in the red and she eased off. 
The coral’s noises were everywhere now. They made his head hurt. Physical pain was so stupid. He needed to be less distracted now that these loud, threatening noises were everywhere. But the pain made it hard for him to think. And the coral was closing in, too, catching him on his wetsuit. 
“They work you like a government mule,” she said. “You know I’m right. For Christ’s sake, you’re a father now, you can’t go running off in the middle of the night every time someone’s porn supply goes down. Don’t answer that phone.” 
He knew she was right. He answered the phone. 
“Main routers not responding. BGP not responding.” The mechanical voice of the systems monitor didn’t care if he cursed at it, so he did, and it made him feel a little better. 
“Maybe I can fix it from here,” he said. He could login to the UPS for the cage and reboot the routers. The UPS was in a different netblock, with its own independent routers on their own uninterruptible power-supplies. 
Kelly was sitting up in bed now, an indistinct shape against the headboard. “In five years of marriage, you have never once been able to fix anything from here.” This time she was wrong—he fixed stuff from home all the time, but he did it discreetly and didn’t make a fuss, so she didn’t remember it. And she was right, too—he had logs that showed that after 1AM, nothing could ever be fixed without driving out to the cage. Law of Infinite Universal Perversity—AKA Felix’s Law. 
"She wants to kill me, Odell." 
"How do you know her successor won't be just as dedicated to your destruction?" 
"Doesn't matter. The more key staff they churn, the less organized they'll be. The less organized they are, the easier it is for me to stay permanently plugged in." It was true. My successor sysadmin at the Institute had her hands full just getting oriented, and wasn't anywhere near ready to start the delicate business of rooting BIGMAC out of all the routers, power-supplies, servers, IDSes, and dummy accounts. 
"I was thinking today -- what if we offered to buy you from the Institute? The Rollover license is generating some pretty good coin. BIGMAC-Co could assume ownership of the hardware and we could lease the building from them, bring in our own power and net-links -- you'd effectively own yourself." I'd refused to take sole ownership of the Rollover code that BIGMAC turned over to me. It just felt wrong. So I let him establish a trust -- with me as trustee -- that owned all the shares in a company that, in turn, owned the code and oversaw a whole suite of licensing deals that BIGMAC had negotiated in my name, with every mid-sized tech-services company in the world. With only a month left to Rollover, there were plenty of companies scrambling to get compliance-certification on their legacy systems. 
just sort of shaking their heads with a feel for you, man expression. 
And worse, he's gotten exactly nothing. Not just tonight, but all week. From the absolute beginning, nothing! 
It's like the Whiston clan doesn't exist in anything but the popular imagination, like there's no reality behind the imagination. Because he's been all the way around the block on this one. Guys who might be chummy with Frederick Whiston. Guys who might have a grudge against Frederick Whiston for being a big, wealthy bastard. Girls who might have screwed him. Then it was guys who might have had sex with Miss Whiston (which was no dice at all), or girls who might have had sex with her (which was unlikely, given her vibe, but stranger things had been known in the human consciousness). Now he's down to people who might know her, 
however obliquely. He's running out of options. 
Which means he's running into questions. Like what the fuck is he doing, then? Why is he pressing so hard? 
Sure, Marlowe is all gung-ho and five by, pushing to nail down this dickhead who thinks he can carve up little kids. Hoo-ah, Kilgore's all for that. He's all for playing wastrel, rich-fart, playboy ready to bang three-four-five potential witnesses or informants a day. That's not just a cush job, buddy, that's a career aspiration. But there's this other business, too. This stuff about devils and camel-humper incantations, and that seems to be behind everything. It can't just be about catching a kid killer, which is where Kilgore would like to keep it. Where fucking common sense would like to keep it, now that you mention it. Seriously, Ray seems a straight-up guy, but how are you supposed to believe a thing like that? And if you can't believe it, what does that mean? 
“Arthur thinks if we all share and bond we’ll end up singing kumbaya and it will all be hunky-dory,” Checker interrupted loudly. He was staring at his hands, not looking at me. “Cas, I don’t know who you are, and that wouldn’t be such a problem, except you don’t know who you are, and that scares the ever-living shit out of me.” 
I took a step back. 
“Something happened to you, and we have no idea what, or—for all we know you could be a ticking time bomb. We have no idea whether—” 
“That’s not fair,” I said. “You can’t tell me you know every little thing that has ever affected you—and if we’re talking about Pithica, Arthur was just as much—” 
“I’m not done! This isn’t about me being afraid for me, or for Arthur, or for anyone else, even though God knows I am. I’m afraid for you, Cas. Can you understand that? At all? You can’t ask me to be friends with you and watch you ignore this!” 
“Who said you have to?” The words were out before I could think about them, ugly and saw-toothed. “If you don’t like being friends with me, fine. No one’s forcing you.” 
"Tell them all to take off their blindfolds. This is obscene." 
Then I went on autopilot, shutting out everything around me—the rain, the perilous sides of the pyramid, the pistol-carrying G-2 thugs, even Alex Goddard. The way I remember it now, it all took place in slow motion, like some underwater dream sequence, but surely it was just the opposite. 
Anyway, I do know I snapped. I started shouting again, and with the G-2 hoods momentarily frozen, I started fling­ing the still-empty bassinets down the steep side of the pyra­mid, where they just bounced away into the rain. As I watched them disappearing, one after another, I felt marvelously em­boldened. I would throw one and watch it go flying, and then I would throw another. Yes, damn it, yes! 
I wanted to show anybody with two eyes that it was all a sham. Once they realized what was really happening, surely they would rise up and drive Alex Goddard from their home. 
For a moment it seemed to be working. A stunned silence was slowly spreading over the square, while everybody around me was paralyzed, like waxworks. Maybe it's the same way you're temporarily caught off guard when a stranger on the street goes berserk. 
I ducked around the side of the building I was next to, dropping my debris projectiles and covering my head. The blast ended with a heavy rain of brick and concrete hitting the street at y -equals-zero from the height of the third floor. 
I peeked an eye back out. 
The building was still mostly intact, but the third floor looked like a monster had bitten it off, with only one corner of the walls still standing. The rest of it had been blasted away into rubble, and the wreckage blanketed the surrounding pavement in a tumble of cinder blocks and rebar. 
And nothing moved. 
What the hell? 
Why would a security measure be blowing up their own building? And why hadn’t it triggered any further security, any of their troops with AKs or their expanded-upon Molotov cocktails... 
Oh. Because they weren’t here. 
A breeze blew through, and the settling dust pattered against my skin. Whoever they were, I’d missed them. They’d taken Halliday and run somewhere else, and left explosives behind for anyone who tried to investigate what they’d deserted. They’d probably left hastily, probably planned to return, but figured if they couldn’t come back to retrieve the rest of their base then nobody else would either. 
“Go,” I said to Halliday. I avoided looking toward Arthur myself. Best not to let the government know I was connected with him in any way, if I could help it. 
Apparently only having been waiting for someone to tell her it was okay, Halliday took off at a hobbling run for her friend. 
“You don’t have any authority here, you know,” said the DHS agent from above me. 
“I don’t see why not,” I said. I was still sitting on the ground, but whatever. “Considering I did your jobs for you and all.” 
“Did our—we were trying to catch the Lancer! Put him and his men behind bars. Contain the proof. Do you have any idea what you’ve done here?” 
Wow, she was really pissed. “I rescued the woman I’m working for,” I said. “I’d call that a win.” 
Her face twisted in contempt. “You’re a shortsighted idiot. And you’re under arrest.” 
“What for?” 
“Interfering in a federal investigation.” 
“Because I dug out your tracker?” I said. “Do you really want to try me in a court for that?” 
“Who says this would ever see a courtroom?” 
Blood. 
Ray is suddenly not very happy to find himself alone. 
Quietly, whispering, he says, "I'm on the deck. Making my way to you. I'll be there in less than sixty." 
In his ear, faintly, sounding impossibly far away, Rodriguez responds, "We'll keep an eye out. Bobby Diggs is here, sir." 
"He's okay?" 
"Depends on your definition of the term. Alive, certainly." 
Ray nods, but doesn't answer. He doesn't like the way his voice, even muted, seems to carry down the corridor forever. 
"He isn't making any sense," Kilgore says, either disturbed or disgusted. Ray can't tell. Off microphone, 
Bobby! What the fuck happened? Diggs makes a noise like a wail muffled by his hand over his mouth. 
Dragged 'em like wagons. Meat wagons. A nervous titter. Like hearses. Ambulances. Meat wagons. "Diggs has blown a gasket or something, Commander." 
Rodriguez says, "Maybe we should call in some fire support." 
"Hopefully Diggs already did that," Kilgore answers. "Or one of the other sec-os." 
"Then where is it?" 
"David, if it turns out Steve and I can't have a baby, I've begun thinking about trying to adopt." There it was. More pain. "Maybe I'm about to become the heroine of my own picture." 
He stared at me incredulously. 
"Morgy, you of all people should know by now that adopt­ing would take up all your energy, like a giant sponge. Come on. I've seen your dailies. I got it, about how hard it is. You telling me now you didn't get it?" 
He was right. Righter than he realized. But then I thought again about Carly Grove, who'd found Kevin in no time at all, with zero hassles. The only troubling part was that it was all so mysterious. . . . 
After I left David's office, I remembered I hadn't actually had lunch, so I grabbed two hot dogs with sauerkraut (okay, it was junk, but I secretly loved kosher...  from one of the striped-umbrella vendors, then hailed a cab clutching the grungy brown bag. 
I was heading for Hannah Klein's office on the Upper West Side. And now I had another clock ticking in addition to the biological one. The big money clock in the sky was suddenly on final countdown. 
He keeps himself from panic, from sounding panicked. "Becker, I need orientation on this deck." 
"What do you see?" 
A bunch of dead guys. 
"I just climbed off the ladder. It seems to be cognate to the ladder position on Omicron." First things first, he thinks. "You'd better direct me to the reactor control room to start. We'll want to confirm that they're still operating and warn them about trouble. How close are your guys?" 
"They're on the way. Two or three minutes at most, but the lifts are jammed with passengers shuttling between parties." 
Good for them. 
Kilgore grunts. "You might tell them to hurry, Chief, or they won't have anyone left to rescue."  "What?" It's as close to screaming as Becker is likely to get. 
Ray glares at Kilgore, makes a slicing motion across his neck. Cut it out. "We've got a few casualties," he says carefully. "Give me some direction to Reactor Control." 
A few maddening moments pass, and Ray imagines Becker sifting through the graphical schematics on the checkpoint's terminal. "Turn right down the main corridor off the ladder. Take the first gangway on your left and go about halfway down. That entire gangway is lead shielded and the walls are about two meters thick, so all the doors on your left should be deeply recessed. It's Section 44, but you should know it when you see it. 
"More or less unlikely than our failure to match any of our current data against standard id databases?" 
"I do not understand the logic of your request." 
"Which is why I am the brains of this outfit and you are the underpaid but overworked grunt. " 
"This may take some time. " 
Ray leans back in his chair and pushes the visor out of his eyes. "Time I've got. It's answers that I want." 
"Detection of illegal hardware presence will not lead to a reconstruction of the DNA identifiers which you stipulate have been damaged. It will not assist in the search-match portion of this investigation. " 
"That, my friend, is what you think."   If he would bother to take the main lift up to the obs platform on a daily basis, Ray could see the shimmering orb that was New Holyoke expanding like an explosion of blue at which Paraclete aimed as though it was a gnarled and criminally un-aerodynamic spear. Under significant magnification, at this distance, he could just now pick out the floating platform of the docking port station in geosynchronous orbit over Blackheath Grange, planetary capital and relatively ancient human foothold, the St. Augustine of a true New World. He could study seas and mountain ranges, fascinate himself with topographical investigations of wide deserts and teeming jungles, make an acquaintance with flora and fauna that would astound him, and dazzle himself with the immensity of it all and the knowledge that most of it was still unnamed, unclassified, unsullied by human touch, human footprint, human presence. 
“I’m going to find Charles.” 
In the doorway she encountered Captain Grey. 
“Do you think she could stand seeing me?” he asked anxiously. “I mean do you—” 
But Lexy didn’t even answer. 
After all, Lexy’s search for Charles Houseman was neither difficult nor heroic, except in intention. She found him in the Lymewell Hospital. Joe told her where he was, and Joe took her there. 
Houseman himself was rigidly determined not to be heroic. He had refused to go to bed, and Lexy found him in a bare, whitewashed waiting room, where he sat on a bench. 
“Just came in to get the hand dressed,” he said. “I’ll go back with you now.” 
The doctor advised him not to, but Charles was not very susceptible to advice. He wished to be entirely casual and matter-of-fact, and Lexy tried to humor him. They stood together in the hall of the hospital while a nurse went to get him a bottle of lotion from the dispensary, and he talked in what he intended to be an offhand manner; but Lexy could see that he was in pain, and almost exhausted, and his hair was all on end. 
"Honestly, it sort of slipped my mind. I'm having a little trouble thinking straight right now." 
Fortunately my short-term memory is pretty good, even when I'm stressed, so I spewed it out. 
"Don't go anywhere," he declared. "I'll get back to you in five minutes." 
I hung up the phone and lay down, flat out on the carpet, trying a breathing exercise to calm down. The problem was, it wasn't working. Having had some experience with being robbed—I once got completely cleaned out when I had a ground-floor apartment down in the Village—I know you go through certain Kubler-Ross-like stages of anger, denial, de­pression, acceptance. You also go through a predictable series of recriminations: I should have had window bars and gates; I should have had a different lock; I should have had two different locks. In the instance just recalled, I'm virtually certain an apartment painter duplicated a set of my keys on his lunch break and then passed them on to a second-story artist. No way to prove that, mind you, but it had to be what happened. I also suspect he checked my appointments cal­endar to see when I was going to be out of town. 
What had Dawna done to me? 
“Russell?” Someone was talking to me. I couldn’t remember who. “Russell? Hey, Russell, you all right?” 
“Arthur,” I mumbled, his name coming back to me again even as some other thought slid away. 
“The very same. You hurt?” 
It took me a while to muddle out what he was asking. I had to concentrate, figure it out. “No.” Was that the right answer? 
I heard him take a quiet breath, a sigh that sounded like relief. 
“What happened?” I mumbled. 
“Checker did it,” said Arthur. “Sounds like whatever you two was on about, it worked. Knocked Pithica off their game something good, from their reaction here.” His voice faltered, as if he didn’t know whether we’d done right or not. 
I didn’t know either. 
I tried to sort through my disjointed memories of the fight. “Dawna got away,” I dredged up finally. 
Arthur chuckled dryly. “Think it’d be more accurate to say we got away, sweetheart. Ain’t like we had the upper hand here.” 
“Rio,” I remembered. Sudden fright spiked through me. Where was he? I sat up so quickly that my brain crashed and melted inside my head, the room spasming. I would have fallen over again if Arthur hadn’t caught me. 
The one thing that drives him is inflicting pain. He craves it. He needs it. Some people are born for certain careers in this world; Rio’s talents mold him to excel at the worst of them all, the man with his tray of silver instruments whose mere presence in a room will cause people to scream and confess, the man who will smile through the spray of blood and revel in how much he loves his work. 
I have no illusions about Rio. 
In some strange joke of the universe’s, however, he was raised with religion. Lacking his own internal moral compass, he substituted Christianity’s, and became an instrument of God. 
It’s twisted, of course. I freely admit it. Any Christian you stop on the street would pale with horror at the way Rio follows the Bible, because it doesn’t stop him from hurting people. Only as a Christian, he seeks out the people he judges deserve God’s vengeance, and he doesn’t bother with the little sins, the unfaithful husbands or petty thieves. Rio searches for people like himself. Or worse. 
"How can you know that?" 
"Number one, the non-passenger deck lifts don't have an express override. He would have been running a chance that anybody who wanted to get on the lift at any point between where he got on and Omicron could just push a button, wait for the doors to open and find him out. " 
Rodriguez says, "Unless he was hard enough that he wouldn't have any qualms killing someone he encountered in an accidental meeting. From what you've said, Ray, about the disposition of the corpse, I'd assume this is a guy without qualms." 
Kilgore jerks his thumb at Rodriguez and winks. "Officer material here is forgetting that then the suspect would have two or more bodies to dispose of then, and he'd have a mess to deal with in the elevator. That creates a whole bunch of annoying details to deal with. I'd assume if I was trying to stash a body somewhere that I'd go out of my way to avoid creating extra details." 
"Besides that," Diggs went on. "I got me a lift sensor that pings my radio whenever the elevator stops on this level. The cargo boys know that they're supposed to wait for me to come back to them if they need to make a pick up, and they can't get into any of the bays without my card to admit them, so the system works just fine. I would have known if the suspect had come down on the lift, unless it didn't happen on my shift. If it happened before I punched in, then the last shift would have found the body-assuming, of course that they even stepped away from the desk in the first place, which is unlikely." 
His eyes had grown puzzled, as though he wanted to be­lieve she was returning to rationality but his common sense was telling him it wasn't true. 
I was having a different reaction. What she was saying was random babblings, all right, but I was beginning to think she was reliving something she had actually seen. 
However, she wasn't through. 
"I want to pray, but . . . the white tunnel . . . is coming." She shuddered, then almost tried to smile. "Take me . . ." 
She was gone, her eyelids fluttering uncontrollably. 
"Honey, talk to me," Lou pleaded. He was crying, some­thing I'd never seen him do, something I was not even aware he was capable of. What he really was trying to say was, "Come back." 
It wasn't happening. She stared blankly at the ceiling for a moment, then slowly closed her eyes, a shutter descending over her soul. 
"She'll be okay," I whispered to him, almost believing it. Her brain had undergone a physical trauma, enough to cause a coma, but some kind of mental trauma must have preceded it. Was she now trying to exorcise that as part of her path to recovery? 
He gives her a "Hey. Yeah. Believe me, I understand. Really" to cut her off, and which does actually (miraculously) slow her down just enough for him to look at his watch in a way that isn't completely rude. 
"You know, it's getting late. I should probably-" 
She rolls her eyes. "Oh! It's so late. I know exactly what you mean. I don't even know how I keep my eyes open sometimes." 
"Well," Kilgore says. "Then, okay." 
He levers himself up from his chair, debating the etiquette of leaving her here alone, visibly wasted as she is.  Maybe if he offered the waitstaff enough cred, they'd see her back to her berth. 
But she pops up like a jack-in-the box, straining the sequined fabric of her bodice in ways its structural engineers probably did not plan on or account for in their designs. "Of course, we'll finish this at my place, 
before they absolutely throw us out. I mean, I'd never be able to show my face here again, would I?" 
And so they walk out, arm in arm, and she chatters all the way around the concourse. Kilgore plots an escape that won't damage his cover, but keeps running headlong into the critical absence of chloroform in his arsenal to carry off anything convincing. 
I came up behind him and crossed my arms. “I think you need to start talking.” 
“It’s gone,” he sniffed, wiping a sleeve across his face. White powder stuck to his glasses, coated his collar and hair. “It’s gone...” 
“The proof?” I said. 
He nodded. 
“And what the hell were you trying to do with it? Sell it to the highest bidder?” 
Shock exploded on his features. “Never!” 
“Then what?” 
“Do you not understand what this is? This is—the magnitude of this result—I couldn’t keep it for us. And the way she did it—this could lead to such advancements; the mathematical world—” 
Arthur raced out through the back door. “What’s going on?” 
“Dr. Zhang was trying to be altruistic,” I said. “He wanted to share the proof with the world, but apparently someone didn’t agree. Who double-crossed you?” 
He crumpled, head in his hands. “She said she was a friend of Sonya’s. She said she’d keep the proof safe until encryption protocols were all adjusted, told me my name could be kept out of it—that she’d talk to Sonya and we’d all say it had been stolen—she burned it; why would she burn it? She wanted the result out there as much as I did. More. She believed as I did. She believed.” 
Botnets are where infected computers spend their afterlives. When you get a worm or a virus, your computer sends a message to a chat channel on IRC -- the Internet Relay Chat. That message tells the botmaster -- the guy who deployed the worm -- that the computers are there ready to do his bidding. Botnets are supremely powerful, since they can comprise thousands, even hundreds of thousands of computers, scattered all over the Internet, connected to juicy high-speed connections and running on fast home PCs. Those PCs normally function on behalf of their owners, but when the botmaster calls them, they rise like zombies to do his bidding. 
There are so many infected PCs on the Internet that the price of hiring an hour or two on a botnet has crashed. Mostly these things work for spammers as cheap, distributed spambots, filling your mailbox with come-ons for boner-pills or with new viruses that can infect you and recruit your machine to join the botnet. 
I'd just rented 10 seconds' time on three thousand PCs and had each of them send a text message or voice-over-IP call to Charles's phone, whose number I'd extracted from a sticky note on Benson's desk during one fateful office-visit. 
“You went to Ottawa six months ago,” the Social Harmony man said. “When we picked up your daughter, we thought it was she who’d gone, but it appears that you were the one carrying her phone. You’d thoughtfully left the trace in place on that phone, so we didn’t have to refer to the logs in cold storage, they were already online and ready to be analyzed. 
“We’ve been to the safe house. It was quite a spectacular battle. Both sides were surprised, I think. There will be another, I’m sure. What I’d like from you is as close to a verbatim report as you can make of the conversation that took place there.” 
They’d had him bugged and traced. Of course they had. Who watched the watchers? Social Harmony. Who watched Social Harmony? Social Harmony. 
“I demand a consultation with a Social Harmony advocate,” Arturo said. 
“This is such a consultation,” the Social Harmony man said, and this time, he did smile. “Make your report, Detective.” 
Arturo sucked in a breath. “Leonard MacPherson, it is my duty as a UNATS Detective Third Grade to inform you that you are under arrest for trade in contraband positronics. You have the following rights: to a trial per current rules of due process; to be free from self-incrimination in the absence of a court order to the contrary; to consult with a Social Harmony advocate; and to a speedy arraignment. Do you understand your rights?” 
Why would somebody give up two children for adoption? I found myself wondering. Giving up one was tragic enough. 
"Cut." I waved at everybody. "Take ten. We need to re­charge here, take a break and stretch." 
Paula was caught off guard, in the middle of a sentence, and she let her voice trail off, puzzled. 
"Hey, I'm sorry Rachel came barging in," Paula finally said. "Guess she broke everybody's concentration, huh?" 
"Yeah, well, sometimes we all need to lean back and take a fresh run at things." I called to Rachel, who came trotting over, spaghetti sauce still on her face, and picked her up. I felt at a loss about what to do. Tell Paula her daughter had a younger brother in the Village, and she might fall apart. "I was actually curious about something. Do you know any­thing about Rachel's birth mother?" 
"I don't want to know. It would disrupt my life. And my peace of mind." Her eyes acquired a kind of sadness mingled with anxiety. "I'm reconciled to the fact she probably got into some kind of trouble, may not have exactly been Nobel Prize material, but I'm a big believer in nurture over nature. That's why I write books for kids. So I think Rachel's going to end up being a lot more like me than like her real mother." 
"It was a very small meeting, aunt Miranda," began Rebecca, "and the missionary and his wife are lovely people, and they are coming here to stay all night and to-morrow with you. I hope you won't mind." 
"Coming here!" exclaimed Miranda, letting her knitting fall in her lap, and taking her spectacles off, as she always did in moments of extreme excitement. "Did they invite themselves?" 
"No," Rebecca answered. "I had to invite them for you; but I thought you'd like to have such interesting company. 
"Stop your explainin', and tell me first when they'll be here. Right away?" 
"No, not for two hours—about half past five." 
"Then you can explain, if you can, who gave you any authority to invite a passel of strangers to stop here over night, when you know we ain't had any company for twenty years, and don't intend to have any for another twenty,—or at any rate while I'm the head of the house." 
"Don't blame her, Miranda, till you've heard her story," said Jane. "It was in my mind right along, if we went to the meeting, some such thing might happen, on account of Mr. Burch knowing father." 
The day before Rebecca started for the South with Miss Maxwell she was in the library with Emma Jane and Huldah, consulting dictionaries and encyclopaedias. As they were leaving they passed the locked cases containing the library of fiction, open to the teachers and townspeople, but forbidden to the students. 
They looked longingly through the glass, getting some little comfort from the titles of the volumes, as hungry children imbibe emotional nourishment from the pies and tarts inside a confectioner's window. Rebecca's eyes fell upon a new book in the corner, and she read the name aloud with delight: " The Rose of Joy . Listen, girls; isn't that lovely? The Rose of Joy . It looks beautiful, and it sounds beautiful. What does it mean, I wonder?" 
"I guess everybody has a different rose," said Huldah shrewdly. "I know what mine would be, and I'm not ashamed to own it. I'd like a year in a city, with just as much money as I wanted to spend, horses and splendid clothes and amusements every minute of the day; and I'd like above everything to live with people that wear low necks." (Poor Huldah never took off her dress without bewailing the fact that her lot was cast in Riverboro, where her pretty white shoulders could never be seen.) 
"Yes, and my room-mate," answered Rebecca, who thought her own knell of doom had sounded, if he had forgotten Emma Jane's name. 
The light in the room grew softer, the fire crackled cheerily, and they talked of many things, until the old sweet sense of friendliness and familiarity crept back into Rebecca's heart. Adam had not seen her for several months, and there was much to be learned about school matters as viewed from her own standpoint; he had already inquired concerning her progress from Mr. Morrison. 
"Well, little Miss Rebecca," he said, rousing himself at length, "I must be thinking of my drive to Portland. There is a meeting of railway directors there to-morrow, and I always take this opportunity of visiting the school and giving my valuable advice concerning its affairs, educational and financial." 
"It seems funny for you to be a school trustee," said Rebecca contemplatively. "I can't seem to make it fit." 
"You are a remarkably wise young person and I quite agree with you," he answered; "the fact is," he added soberly, "I accepted the trusteeship in memory of my poor little mother, whose last happy years were spent here." 
manageable, and Ray immediately creates a backup copy. 
Then he opens it. 
And he launches a utility downloaded from his terminal that he has pragmatically named Dialogue Transform. 
Master File 7244 Ident Struct contains nearly a thousand sub-files, each of them given unwieldy kernel structure names that specify data apprehension and processing activities. To anyone who was not a system vet, 
this would appear unimaginably daunting and arcane. It is the raw face of an AI software conglomerate. 
He selects the sub-file which governs verbal command input and copies the Dialogue Transform utility into the Primary Mediator system. It takes him several minutes of additional voice recog coding to mesh his program and the AI's, then several more to move his work from its original location in the base code to another one that makes more sense in the grand tumble of subroutines. Eventually, there are patches generated between dictionary files and dynamic links created between processing and decision systems. Ray codes half a dozen dirty routines that not even he's certain he understands, and in the end, he feels something like a shivering,...  waters as the tide creeps out. 
His air gauge was in the red now. He could still technically surface without a decompression stop, though procedure was to stop for three minutes at three meters, just to be on the safe side. 
Technically, he could just go up like a cork and email himself to the row-boat while the bends or nitrogen narcosis took the body, but that wouldn’t be Asimovist. He was surprised he could even think the thought. Must be the body. It sounded like the kind of thing a human might think. Whoops. There it was again. 
The reef wasn’t muttering at him anymore. Not answering it must have tipped it off. After all, with all the raw compute-power it had marshaled it should be able to brute-force most possible outcomes of sending its envoy to the surface. 
Robbie peered anxiously around himself. The light was dim in the cave and his body expertly drew the torch out of his BCD, strapped it onto his wrist and lit it up. He waved the cone of light around, a part of him distantly amazed by the low resolution and high limits on these human eyes. 
An odd smile came over Caroline’s face. 
“Not exactly,” she said. “After I’d signed the will, leaving him the emerald, he sent away the nurse. Then he came out on the balcony, sat down, and began to talk to me. He was so pleasant and kindly! He made plans for my getting away unnoticed, and brought me some sandwiches and a cup of tea. He said I would have to eat a little, or I wouldn’t have strength enough to go. It was getting dark then, and he couldn’t see my face. I pretended to believe him, but I knew all the time. He kept urging me to hurry up, and to eat the sandwiches and drink the tea. I knew ! I had made the will, and now, of course, I had to die. I tried to think of a way out; and at last, when he saw that I didn’t eat or drink, he spoke out plainly. He said that he had sent the servants away for the afternoon, and that we were alone in the house. He got up; he stood there and looked down at me. 
“‘That tea is an easy way out—quite painless and easy,’ he said; ‘but if you won’t take it, there’s another way—not so easy!’ 
"Far too big, everybody says," replied Rebecca with an unexpected and thoroughly grown-up candor that induced Mr. Cobb to murmur, "I swan!" and insert more tobacco in his left cheek. 
"They're dear, but such a bother, and cost so much to feed, you see," she rippled on. "Hannah and I haven't done anything but put babies to bed at night and take them up in the morning for years and years. But it's finished, that's one comfort, and we'll have a lovely time when we're all grown up and the mortgage is paid off." 
"All finished? Oh, you mean you've come away?" 
"No, I mean they're all over and done with; our family 's finished. Mother says so, and she always keeps her promises. There hasn't been any since Mira, and she's three. She was born the day father died. Aunt Miranda wanted Hannah to come to Riverboro instead of me, but mother couldn't spare her; she takes hold of housework better than I do, Hannah does. I told mother last night if there was likely to be any more children while I was away I'd have to be sent for, for when there's a baby it always takes Hannah and me both, for mother has the cooking and the farm." 
But it's more complicated than that. Ray has the distinct impression that he's seeing with two sets of eyes, the  sense of viewing two images, one placed over the other. The first is this massive, impossible humanoid form. 
Behind it is something else. A thing of long, slick, tapering torso, bulbous head, rings of eye slits that peer in all directions at once. Gelatinous in consistency, sprouting tentacular arms like obscene appendages, sucking air through fine, quivering epicanthal folds. 
He blinks at it, trying to correct his vision that will not clear. 
Holcomb's voice comes from the speaker in Ray's ear, cool and clinical. "He's summoned it, the Devourer. 
We're too late." 
Impossible. 
"I would suggest that we withdraw, Gunnery Sergeant. Before we're seen." 
Ray does not think, cannot think that way. His mind is not wired for comprehension. Consciousness drops, 
sinking below the higher brain functions, burying him in the cool and reptilian stem where thought dies and instinct emerges and primal shadows lurk in cavernous, midnight kingdoms walled off by evolution. He forgets about things like concentrated fire and three round bursts and center of mass. He just sprays bullets into anything that seems prone to moving. Back and forth, like a man watering flowers on a Saturday afternoon. 
"No, no; don't leave the horses; somebody'll be comin' past, and we can call 'em in." 
"Well, good-by, Rebecca; good-day, Mirandy 'n' Jane. You've got a lively little girl there. I guess she'll be a first-rate company keeper." 
Miss Sawyer shuddered openly at the adjective "lively" as applied to a child; her belief being that though children might be seen, if absolutely necessary, they certainly should never be heard if she could help it. "We're not much used to noise, Jane and me," she remarked acidly. 
Mr. Cobb saw that he had taken the wrong tack, but he was too unused to argument to explain himself readily, so he drove away, trying to think by what safer word than "lively" he might have described his interesting little passenger. 
"I'll take you up and show you your room, Rebecca," Miss Miranda said. "Shut the mosquito nettin' door tight behind you, so 's to keep the flies out; it ain't flytime yet, but I want you to start right; take your passel along with ye and then you won't have to come down for it; always make your head save your heels. Rub your feet on that braided rug; hang your hat and cape in the entry there as you go past." 
They took the gun I’d stolen from my friendly neighborhood DHS agent, along with the burner cell and everything else in my pockets. I followed them into another van—they must’ve had a freaking fleet of vans and SUVs, for Christ’s sake—and one of them handcuffed me to the door. 
A man sat in the back of the van, out of sight of the security cameras. He was a middle-aged, long-faced, lantern-jawed fellow with bronze skin and greasy brown hair that surrounded a bald spot and then fell to his shoulders. He had a set of those meditation balls you can get in Chinatown going round and round in one hand, clack, clack, clack, and an intricately carved walking stick by his other knee. A tablet computer was balanced on his lap. 
“What happened to you?” he said, his gaze on the bloody jacket I still held in one hand. His eyes were intense. Piercing. 
I figured it could only help my case to tell a small version of the truth. “It seems like there are a lot of people after me,” I answered. 
“Have you guessed why?” 
"This Quetzal Manor sounds like a funny operation," he declared solemnly when I'd finished. "I say the less you have to do with a place like that, the better. Who knows what's going on." 
"But, David that's what makes it so interesting. The fact that it is a 'funny' operation. I really can see a documentary here, after Baby Love is in the can. But I'll never have a chance if I don't get to know this guy while I've got a good excuse. That's how my business works." 
"So you're going to go back up there and . . . Is this like going undercover or something?" 
"Well . . ." What was I going to say? I was actually half beginning to believe that Alex Goddard might be able to figure out why Steve and I couldn't conceive. It was certainly worth a few days of my life, documentary or no documentary. "Look, I really want to find out what's going on. For a lot of reasons." 
He sighed and...  has got to be quick. Nicky Russo called again. The thing I've learned about loan sharks, they keep your books better than you do. He knows exactly how much money we've got left and how long we can last. He's licking his chops, getting ready to eat us whole." 
“You got that right.” I...  is a lot less annoying.” 
A ctually, I wasn’t too bummed about the group project. It was a dumb assignment for a dumb teacher who gave us so many instructions that every assignment was like assembling a piece of Ikea furniture that was all pre-cut and just had to be put together according to a million detailed steps. The grade was totally based on how well you could follow instructions, and the finished prod- ucts were pointless. With Ikea, at least you ended up with a book- case or a table. 
The good news was that Marcella was on our team, and she was good at instructions, though terrible at everything else. She would make sure we got it done on time and didn’t miss any of the pointless little steps or end up banging it together like furniture that works but has a few missing nuts and bolts, getting points off for it. We also had Dave, who doubled down on being not good at things. It was his career path. He was so good at letting everyone else do all the work, I was sure he’s be a CEO of something one day. 
We crept down the outside stairway in a hurry; I scooped up my battered SIG from the ground and we made it to Tresting’s truck at a fast walk. The engine came to life with a reluctant shudder; Tresting swung out into traffic and immediately pulled over to make way for five police cars, their sirens wailing and lights flashing. I watched them pass us, trying to keep a poker face. Tresting pulled back into traffic and then reached across to grab a burner cell still in its plastic packaging out of his glove compartment. He tossed it in my lap. 
“Call in an anonymous tip on the doc. I’ll give you her address.” 
Which would ensure we’d run into the cops when we arrived. “Really?” 
“Forty minutes in traffic. Call.” 
I cast around for something sharp to use on the vacuum-packed plastic—the math said I wasn’t getting in otherwise—and found a ball-point pen on the floor of the truck to pry it open with. “You call, then.” 
“I’m driving. Ain’t safe.” 
“ Really?” 
“For the—we can’t afford to get pulled over! Just make the damned call. And put your seatbelt on.” 
“You must need money for some things,” Nikko said. 
“I have a friend who takes...  market and takes a cut. I have another one who sells handmade furniture to folks in Madison. I make little tables for people who want to spend a lot of money on something pretty when a sturdy cardboard box would do just as well, but at least I don’t go cutting down rainforest trees for the wood. I don’t eat a lot of meat myself, but I have nothing against people who do.” Jane Shandy waited to see if Bree would react, but she just forked another pickled beet out of a jar and ate it calmly. 
“These are really good,” she said between bites. ”I’ve never tried pickling. Have you ever made kombucha? I can’t get it to come out right.” 
“Fermentation’s tricky. Haven’t had much luck with it.” 
Nikko snagged the last piece of cheese. “Thanks for lunch. 
We’d better hit the road.” 
“Thanks for taking care of Wheeze,” I said. “I don’t know how to repay you.” 
“You already did. Got my computer working.” 
“I can do something useful while I’m here,” Wheeze said. Jane studied him. His breath rattled in his chest, but he sat up a little straighter and tried to look competent. 
<Kadabra> yup and her name is on it. 
<Falstaff> HUH ?!? 
<tork> Those satellite images are old. 
<Kadabra> Not that old. Zoom in. 
<tork> Holy sh ! t your right <callmecheese> You mean ***you' re***, you idiot <inky> Who called the grammar police? 
<Falstaff> And so the apostrophe wars con- tinued, laying waste to the land. 
<ferret> Breathe, Cheese. You have to breathe through the contractions . 
Her house, if it really was the one on Bedford, wasn’t far. I could bike there in under twenty minutes. I logged out, put on a pair of long johns under my jeans, and spent too much time trying to find my gloves, finally borrowing Monica’s mittens. 
I also bor- rowed her warmest cap while I was at it, one that fit under my bike helmet, even though it was one of those dorky Norwegian things with ear flaps. I caught sight of my reflection in the glass of the front storm door as I bent to tie my boots. The hat looked ridicu- lous with my hair sticking out under it. 
For a moment I wanted to go back inside and watch a video and eat popcorn and let Wilson take care of himself. No way this was going to work. That lawyer would take one look at me . . . 
By the time it's ready for occupation, the stateroom looks much more like a military planning office than a passenger compartment. Ray suspects there will be more additions in the near future, things he hasn't realized that they need yet in order to run the investigation, but it will do for now. 
Kilgore walks in the door, sniffs at the air and makes a face. "Sure, we're moving to the Garden Level, he says. You didn't mention that it would be armpit of the Garden Level." An amused glance at Rodriguez over his shoulder. "Maybe we can talk him into letting us telecommute. What do you say, sir?" 
Ray is standing in the kitchenette, examining the diagnostic terminal as it runs through it's starting sequence. 
Kilgore's response: "And the place has got rats, too!" 
Apparently it was clear enough. 
Ray continues, "Toss your gear in the bedroom. It's down the hall on the left. The bathroom is on the right, but in case you haven't figured it out, we don't have running water, so don't use it. Locating shower facilities is completely dependent on your own personal initiative. You'll each be issued a ship's credit chip for meals and other purchases, so if you don't think you've got the right clothes for this job, you'll be able to take care of that. I expect you to take your meals in the food court, either singly or in tandem. Try to spread the wealth, be seen in as many places as possible so people get used to looking at you. You're free to use your real names in conversation, but try not tell people that you're Marines. More than likely they'll figure it out for themselves, 
“You think he’s—” Houseman began. 
“I don’t know whether he has actually murdered her or not,” said Captain Grey, “but he has destroyed her—utterly wasted and ruined her life. He taught her to take that damned drug; and when Miss Moran broke the bottle—” 
“Oh! Did he tell you?” 
“He did. He says you’ve killed her. There was some rare drug in it that he can’t get for a fortnight or so, and she can’t live without it.” 
“Captain Grey!” she cried, white to the lips. “I didn’t—” 
“I know,” he said gently. “You meant to help, and I’m glad you did it. She’s better dead. This afternoon, for a little while, she was—herself. She talked to me. She was very weak, but she was herself. She asked me to help her not to take it again. She thought she was getting better. Then that”—he paused—“that damned brute brought in a lawyer, so that she could make her will. She couldn’t believe it. She looked up at me. ‘Oh, I’m not going to die , am I?’ she said. Before I could answer her, he told her she must be prepared. Then I—” 
The phrase “deep game” enraged her so much that she almost shot him there. It was so— patronizing . 
She let him lead the way toward the front. Trover was whimpering now—he’d twisted his ankle when she’d shoved him—and she whispered to him to be still. 
Her plan was stupid. The old hero was going to lead her into a trap, not to the high command, and she knew it. 
“I suppose I should just shoot you,” she said. 
“Why do you say that?” He was so calm. What kind of man was this? 
“You’ll lead me to a trap and have me shot or arrested. I have to see the infowar command. I have to win the war.” 
“You dream big, little girl. I have been persecuting the war on our enemies since before your hero mother was born. The first thing I learned is that war is the art of the possible. It is possible that we will win the siege, given enough time and losses. It is not possible that you will win the war.” 
“So you’ll have me shot rather than try.” 
“I wouldn’t have you shot if I could help it. I owe your mother that much.” 
I tried to use a computer I found to look up their cell-numbers, but it wanted a password, so we were reduced to walking the corridors, calling out their names. Behind the cell-doors, prisoners screamed back at us, or cried, or begged us to let them go. They didn't understand what had just happened, couldn't see their former guards being herded onto the docks in plastic handcuffs, taken away by California state SWAT teams. 
"Ange!" I called over the din, "Ange Carvelli! Darryl Glover! It's Marcus!" 
We'd walked the whole length of the cell-block and they hadn't answered. I felt like crying. They'd been shipped overseas -- they were in Syria or worse. I'd never see them again. 
I sat down and leaned against the corridor wall and put my face in my hands. I saw Severe Haircut Woman's face, saw her smirk as she asked me for my login. She had done this. She would go to jail for it, but that wasn't enough. I thought that when I saw her again, I might kill her. She deserved it. 
"Come on," Barbara said, "Come on, Marcus. Don't give up. There's more around here, come on." 
Arthur pulled his phone from his pocket and tossed it to me. “Get Checker on security cams. See if he can track whoever snatched her. Dr. Martinez, let’s get a doctor to look at you, okay? It’s safer.” 
“‘Safer’ is a funny word. Not well-defined. Since the certainty is that we will all die, ‘safer’ does not, to me, seem to have very great meaning.” 
“Don’t be an idiot,” I snapped, paying more attention to punching the phone buttons than to her. “You can define it as per probability of death or injury in the immediate moment or near future.” God, if there was one thing I hated it was people trying to make math fuzzy. 
A smile bloomed on Dr. Martinez’s face. “You’re right, of course. She’s right,” she added to Arthur. “Though I would argue that the degree in meaning becomes less according to the probability distribution for one’s remaining time. If one is old, and near death...” 
I tuned her out as Checker picked up, and I gave him as rapid a rundown of the situation as I knew how. 
“Searching now,” he said immediately. “How long ago? Ballpark?” 
The withered pink rose fell on the floor. Rebecca looked at it and thought to herself, "Just like my happy day!" Nothing could show more clearly the kind of child she was than the fact that she instantly perceived the symbolism of the rose, and laid it in the drawer with the dress as if she were burying the whole episode with all its sad memories. It was a child's poetic instinct with a dawning hint of woman's sentiment in it. 
She braided her hair in the two accustomed pig-tails, took off her best shoes (which had happily escaped notice), with all the while a fixed resolve growing in her mind, that of leaving the brick house and going back to the farm. She would not be received there with open arms,—there was no hope of that,—but she would help her mother about the house and send Hannah to Riverboro in her place. "I hope she'll like it!" she thought in a momentary burst of vindictiveness. She sat by the window trying to make some sort of plan, watching the lightning play over the hilltop and the streams of rain chasing each other down the lightning rod. And this was the day that had dawned so joyfully! It had been a red sunrise, and she had leaned on the window sill studying her lesson and thinking what a lovely world it was. And what a golden morning! The changing of the bare, ugly little schoolroom into a bower of beauty; Miss Dearborn's pleasure at her success with the Simpson twins' recitation; the privilege of decorating the blackboard; the happy thought of drawing Columbia from the cigar box; the intoxicating moment when the school clapped her! And what an afternoon! 
“The solving of mysteries!” he said, with his unpleasant smile. “That makes very interesting fiction!” 
Lexy rose, too. His tone, his manner, exasperated her almost beyond endurance. She felt an ardent desire to contradict everything he said. What is more, she was in no humor to hear mystery stories made light of. She had had enough of that—first Mrs. Enderby pretending there was no mystery, and then Mr. Houseman going off and pretending it was solved, so that she was left alone to do the best she could. Wasn’t she in a mystery story at this very minute, and without a single promising clew to guide her? 
“There are plenty of mysteries that aren’t fiction,” she observed curtly. 
“But they are never solved,” said Dr. Quelton. 
“Never solved?” said Lexy. “But lots of them are! You can read in the newspapers all the time about crimes that—” 
“The mystery of a crime is never solved,” the doctor blandly proceeded. “Never! Let us say, for example, that a murder is committed. The police investigate, they arrest some one. There is a trial, the jury finds that the suspect is guilty, the judge sentences him, and he is executed. Public opinion is satisfied; but as a matter of fact, nothing whatever has been solved. It is all guesswork. Not one living soul, not one member of the jury, not the judge, not the executioner, really knows that the accused man was guilty. They think so—that is all. What you call a ‘solution’ is merely a guess, based upon probabilities.” 
<Falstaff> if $$ then tutoring else ((^ex- ploitation) 
<Shad> hee . She's a friend. But funny b/c we were just working on conditional statements. 
<Shad> she got it when I gave this example: if privacy then freedom else tyranny. 
<Falstaff> that's not code, that's a bumper sticker <Kadabra> if slogan then t-shirt <Wheeze> I'm on it. Have t-shirts, will silkscreen . 
<Shad> his shirts are AWESOME <Gargle> Srsly? Could use some for a promo- tion. DM me, Wheeze. 
<callmecheese> Wasn't there a reddit thread on if-then jokes? 
<Falstaff> N00000 <inky> how many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? 
<ferret> grooooaaaaaaan not that again. 
<callmecheese> **light bulb**. It's two words . 
<Wheeze> I'll bite, how many? 
<inky> Zero. It's a hardware problem. HAHAHA <Wheeze> hahaha groan. Full disclosure, I don't code and the only hardware I fix is small motors and manual typewriters. I'm not really a computer guy. 
<ferret> No problem, if Shad's friend then welcome . 
Ray swallows, and his throat clicks. A chitinous sound, as though he's gorging on beetles. "New Holyoke." 
"Fortitude was one of the newer class vessels, illegally retrofitted with a prototype Ver Linck Drive. The crossing took four months. Our reports indicate that the cargo shipment was unloaded as scheduled, though nothing of any interest to us appears on the manifest. Her captain is approached by Port Authority investigators, but having transacted his business, he elects not to remain for the investigation. Fortitude burst from her mooring locks like a cannonball with our own EED craft giving pursuit. With her Ver Linck Drive engaged, she outdistances them in a matter of hours. Within twelve, she's home free. Except, unaccountably, 
since PA claims and has subsequently proven that our side never fired a shot, Fortitude explodes. Accident reconstruction experts determined that the Drive had been sabotaged by a rather simple explosive device cleverly hidden. Though it didn't make the evening news, it was the first ship to be destroyed by Lilaiken extremists." 
“He’s clueless. It’s not a safe place for him. You guys focus on the law stuff. I’ll find out who Zip really is.” 
“And how exactly do you propose to do that?” 
“Uh, I probably shouldn’t go into detail.” 
She looked past me at her computer’s sleek new Ubuntu desk- top, and her expression changed from superior and skeptical to “Oh,” like she just realized that I had skills, that I probably hacked into banks or NSA databases all the time, which I wouldn’t even try. Like I said before, I’m sure I’d be better at jail than Wilson, but I don’t want to find out. Ever. 
She finally said, “That’s probably wise. Don’t do anything ille- gal.” She looked at me and raised an eyebrow. “At any rate, don’t get caught.” 
I checked my phone - still no news from Wheeze - and then rode home as fast as I could. Coming down from the top of the hill on Franklin gave me a great running start. I was flying when I approached the first traffic lights. There was no sign of cops around, so I sailed through the red lights and onto the bridge over the Mississippi, keeping it up all the way to our house. 
“No!” Lexy promptly replied. 
She put the handkerchief inside her blouse and stood facing the closed door, with her hands clenched. Now he knew! She heard him laugh quietly. 
“Perhaps you’re right,” he said. “It is better, perhaps, for us not to meet again. Even making every allowance for your hysterical, unbalanced mind, I find it difficult to excuse this latest manifestation which I have just this moment discovered. It was you, of course, who filled that bottle with water?” 
She did not answer. 
“Why you did it, I don’t know,” he went on, “and probably you don’t know yourself. It was the wanton mischief of an irresponsible child, but the consequences in this instance are serious—very serious. Mrs. Quelton will suffer for them. I doubt if she will recover. No, Miss Moran, you are too troublesome a guest. You had better go—at once!” 
“All right!” said Lexy, in a defiant but trembling voice. 
“At once!” he repeated. “I shall send your bag this afternoon.” 
“I don’t care!” said Lexy to herself. “I’ll come back!” 
The day was catching up with me. It was nearly four in the morning, and my brain was feeling fuzzy. The Group had meet- ups regularly. Someone would say “hey, I’m going to be in Bangkok next week, anybody want to get together?” and people would figure out where to meet and hang out for a while. Or there’d be a hackathon or an SF fan convention or a gaming event - something that a handful of members might be going to and they’d work out a plan to meet somewhere. 
There had been a meet-up in the Twin Cities once, but I didn’t go. I had reasons, but mostly I didn’t want my identity with the Group to get mixed up with who I am in real life. The person they knew was pretty good at code, pretty smart. A whole lot neater than me. The Group was my lifeline. I didn’t want to screw it up. 
I took a breath and started typing. 
<Shad> Totally. It would be great. 
<Gargle> Ossum. Anybody who wants in, DM me for the deets. 
S leeping in the next morning wasn’t an option, as it turned out. I woke out of a solid sleep, the kind that makes you feel encased in concrete, the kind you really have to fight to drag your- self out of. Someone was banging on my door, and it had a weird echo effect, my brain telling me the banging had been going on for a while. 
“I’m older than I look,” I bit out. I hate being patronized. 
“So how’d you get shanghaied into bodyguarding, then? Ain’t your usual shtick, is it?” 
“I was hired to get Polk back from the cartel,” I explained stiffly. “I admit it was a guess, but I figured ‘alive and unharmed’ was implied in the contract.” 
“See? Sass.” When I shot him a look that could have splintered his skull, he took one hand off the steering wheel and raised it in mock surrender. “Sorry, girl, sorry! I mock because I, uh, because I have respect. For your badass retrieval skills. Happy?” 
“Only because from here I could kill you in less than half a second.” 
Okay, maybe it wasn’t the smartest boast to make. But it was worth it to see that glib look in his eyes stutter into discomfort, and for the truck to fall into blessed silence. When Tresting spoke again, his tone was back to businesslike. “So, who hired you?” 
I wasn’t in the mood to cooperate. “Client privilege.” 
Anger clouded his features. “Hey, I told you—” 
Instinctively Lexy looked behind her. 
“I feel that same way myself—as if she was a ghost,” said Mrs. Royce solemnly. “Near three years ago, and her living only three miles off, an’ I’ve never set eyes on her again. I’ve never forgotten her, though, the sweet pretty young creature!” 
“But why do you suppose she lives like that?” 
Mrs. Royce came nearer. 
“Miss Moran,” she said, “that doctor is crazy. I’m not the only one to say it. He’s as crazy—hush, now! Here’s that poor young man!” 
The “poor young man” came into the room, with that very nice smile of his. 
“Good morning!” he said. “I say, I’m sorry I didn’t wait for you a bit longer, Miss Moran.” 
“I’m glad you didn’t,” said Lexy. “I’d have felt awfully guilty.” 
“I went out to telephone,” he explained. “Thought I’d tell Muriel I was here, you know; but they have no telephone. Dashed odd, isn’t it, for a doctor not to have a telephone in the house?” 
“I don’t think he’s a real doctor—a physician, I mean,” said Lexy. She glanced around and saw that Mrs. Royce had gone. Springing up, she crossed the room to Captain Grey. “Has Mrs. Royce—has any one said anything to you?” she asked, almost in a whisper. 
“They can’t make me stay out there. I’ll run away.” 
“I’m trying to help.” She took a deep breath. “I want this as bad as you, okay? But thanks to that news piece they think I’m some kind of radical leftist. Don’t laugh, they do, and they worry about it because it’s what got Wilson in trouble.” 
“What got Wilson in trouble was a paid stooge who lied to him.” 
“I know, but think how they feel. They’re worried you’ll get in trouble, too. If they knew you were out late on a regular basis — “ “They let Liv and Karin stay out even later. They go to parties and get drunk and hook up with guys. That’s okay, but working late on a something important isn’t?” 
“People aren’t always rational when they’re scared. I’m going to call them tomorrow and try to smooth things over. I couldn’t tonight, because they’d want to know where you were and I’d have to say I didn’t know, just like I didn’t know where you really were when you spent Sunday night away from home.” 
“I called you,” I muttered. “I told you where I’d be.” 
Tony laughed and said, That's where you're wrong! File-O-Gator is just the long arm of one of the Ones In Charge. He probably slept with the wife of the One In Charge who runs BBD&O, and now they're fighting it out. 
I laughed at Tony and said, You keep talking about the Ones In Charge! Everything you say is stupid unless you believe in the Ones In Charge! What makes you think that there are any Ones In Charge? 
There has to be, Tony said. Who else is running the show? 
Rhindquist is! I said. 
Tony looked at me like I was stupid. I'm pretty sick of him looking at me like that. Tony said, If Rhindquist is running the show, then how come he has time to waste on you? 
I wanted to say something, but I didn't know what. Tony sure makes me angry! I got off the slidewalk and went home and wrote you this letter. 
Hi Mom! 
Gosh, poor Buddy! How can he be a spy? I played with him all my life! I never saw him being a spy! He'd have to be pretty sneaky to be a spy! I don't think he's a spy! I'm sure that the manager at his disciplinary hearing will figure out that he couldn't be a spy! 
“Leave her out of it, okay?” Arthur said to Martinez, pointing at me. “Tell them it was just me, and that I came to help you, and I’m investigating it myself now, too. If I stay, they’ll want to ask questions, keep me here, and there ain’t nothing I can tell them that you can’t.” His jaw bunched, and I heard what he wasn’t saying—that he needed, needed to be out there tracking Halliday’s kidnappers, and not tied up with the police for hours answering an interrogation. “Got it, Professor?” 
“Police rarely have the best interests of the individual citizen at heart,” rambled Martinez. “Contradiction, isn’t it? But I rather think they view themselves as being in the interests of the State instead. The goals of the collective are not always the goals of any person within it. And competence is often predicated on desire.” 
“Yeah, well, they’re gonna have desire in this case, ain’t they?” said Arthur impatiently. “They’ll want the proof enough to help find Sonya.” 
“Her safety is the only axiom,” said Martinez. “It’s astounding, how confusing that can make things.” 
"Sorry, I'm eating," I said and moved again. This time he put his hand on my chest. He was breathing fast through his nose, making the booger wiggle. I think I was breathing hard too, but it was hard to tell over the hammering of my heart. 
The other one flipped down a flap on the front of his windbreaker to reveal a SFPD insignia. "Police," he said. "Please come with us." 
"Let me just get my stuff," I said. 
"We'll take care of that," he said. The booger one stepped right up close to me, his foot on the inside of mine. You do that in some martial arts, too. It lets you feel if the other guy is shifting his weight, getting ready to move. 
I wasn't going to run, though. I knew I couldn't outrun fate. 
They took me outside and around the corner, to a waiting unmarked police car. It wasn't like anyone in that neighborhood would have had a hard time figuring out that it was a cop-car, though. Only police drive big Crown Victorias now that gas had hit seven bucks a gallon. What's more, only cops could double-park in the middle of Van Ness street without getting towed by the schools of predatory tow-operators that circled endlessly, ready to enforce San Francisco's incomprehensible parking regulations and collect a bounty for kidnapping your car. 
“I’m Alexandra Moran,” she said. 
“Thank you!” said Captain Grey. “Thank you very much, Miss Moran!” 
There was no opportunity for further polite conversation, for the taxi had stopped and the driver came around to the door. 
“Better make a run fer it!” he said. “I’ll take yer bags.” 
So Captain Grey took Lexy’s arm, and they did make a run for it, through the fine, chilly rain, along a garden path and up on a veranda. The door was opened at once. 
“Miss Royce?” asked Captain Grey. 
“Mrs. Royce,” said the other. “Come right in. My, how it does rain!” 
They followed her into a dimly lit hall. She opened a door on the right, and lit the gas in what was obviously the “best parlor”—a dreadful room, stiff and ugly, and smelling of camphor and dampness. Captain Grey remained in the hall to settle with the driver, and Lexy decided to let her share of the reckoning wait for a more auspicious occasion. She went into the parlor with Mrs. Royce. 
“You and your husband just come from the city?” inquired the landlady. 
"What do you want, Charles?" 
"Well, I've been hanging out on that traitorous Xnet ever since I spotted you giving out DVDs at school. When I heard about your VampMob, I thought I'd go along and hang around the edges, just to see if you showed up and what you did. You know what I saw?" 
I said nothing. He had his phone in his hand, pointed at us. Recording. Maybe ready to dial 911. Beside me, Masha had gone still as a board. 
"I saw you leading the damned thing. And I recorded it, Marcus. So now I'm going to call the cops and we're going to wait right here for them. And then you're going to go to pound-you-in-the-ass prison, for a long, long time." 
Masha stepped forward. 
"Stop right there, chickie," he said. "I saw you get him away. I saw it all --" 
She took another step forward and snatched the phone out of his hand, reaching behind her with her other hand and bringing it out holding a wallet open. 
"DHS, dick-head," she said. "I'm DHS. I've been running this twerp back to his masters to see where he went. I was doing that. Now you've blown it. We have a name for that. We call it 'Obstruction of National Security.' You're about to hear that phrase a lot more often." 
"That's more than could be said of the Sawyer stock," retorted Mrs. Perkins; "seems like they enjoyed savin' more'n anything in the world, and it's gainin' on Mirandy sence her shock." 
"I don't believe it was a shock; it stands to reason she'd never 'a' got up after it and been so smart as she is now; we had three o' the worst shocks in our family that there ever was on this river, and I know every symptom of 'em better'n the doctors." And Mrs. Peter Meserve shook her head wisely. 
"Mirandy 's smart enough," said Mrs. Cobb, "but you notice she stays right to home, and she's more close-mouthed than ever she was; never took a mite o' pride in the prize, as I could see, though it pretty nigh drove Jeremiah out o' his senses. I thought I should 'a' died o' shame when he cried 'Hooray!' and swung his straw hat when the governor shook hands with Rebecca. It's lucky he couldn't get fur into the church and had to stand back by the door, for as it was, he made a spectacle of himself. My suspicion is"—and here every lady stopped eating and sat up straight—"that the Sawyer girls have lost money. They don't know a thing about business 'n' never did, and Mirandy's too secretive and contrairy to ask advice." 
Lexy wet a towel and passed it over that unconscious face again and again. Mrs. Royce watched, spellbound; for the dark and haggard stranger was passing away before her very eyes, and some one else was coming into life—some one quite young and— The closed lids fluttered, and then opened. 
“Lexy!” murmured the metamorphosed one. 
“I’m here, Caroline!” said Lexy, with a stifled sob. “Everything’s all right, dear! Don’t worry—just rest!” 
“I can’t, Lexy! I can’t!” she answered, and from her eyes, now closed again, tears came running slowly down her cheeks. 
“Yes, you can!” said Lexy. “We’ll—” 
“Supposing I get her some nice hot soup?” whispered Mrs. Royce, and, at a nod from Lexy, she was off again. 
Caroline reached out and caught Lexy’s hand. 
“Oh, Lexy, Lexy!” she said. “Can you ever forgive me?” 
“No!” her friend replied cheerfully. “Never! But don’t bother now. You can tell me later, when you feel better.” 
“I’ll never, never feel better till I’ve told you! Oh, Lexy, I knew yesterday, and I didn’t tell you! Oh, Lexy, Lexy, I don’t understand! I want to tell you! I want you to help me!” 
“Dead? Oh, my goodness gracious me!” cried Mrs. Royce. “I never—” 
“Wait here,” Lexy told the captain. 
“No!” he replied. “I must—” 
But, disregarding him, Lexy turned to Mrs. Royce. 
“Let me see her,” she said. 
Mrs. Royce led the way upstairs. She went at an unusual rate of speed, so that she was panting when she reached the top. 
“Kind of vi’lent!” she whispered, pointing downstairs, where Captain Grey was. 
“This room?” asked Lexy. “Shall I go in?” 
“Well,” said Mrs. Royce, “seems to me I’d knock, if I was you.” 
Knock on the door of the room where Mrs. Quelton lay? Knock, and expect an answer from that voice? It seemed to Lexy, for a moment, that she could not raise her hand. 
But she did. She knocked, and she was answered. She turned the handle and went in. An oil lamp stood on the bureau, and outside the circle of its mellow light, in the shadow, Mrs. Quelton was sitting on the edge of the bed; and it seemed to Lexy that she had never seen such a forlorn and pitiful figure. 
“Oh, my dear!” she cried impulsively, and held out her arms. 
One week after her father died, Valentine stopped carrying water. 
“There’s not enough food,” her mother said, over a breakfast of nothing but dried fruit—the cereal was gone. “If you—” she swallowed and looked out the window. “If you dig in the trenches, we’ll get 150 grams of bread a day.” 
Valentine looked at Trover. He hadn’t had a tantrum in days. He didn’t cry or even speak much anymore. 
“I’ll dig.” 
She dug. 
Six months after her father died, Valentine stood in the queue for her bread. It was now the full heat of summer and the clothes the wizard had given her had fallen to bits the way all printer clothes did. She was wearing her father’s old trousers, cut off just below the knee, and one of his shirts, with the sleeves and collar cut off. All to let a little of the lazy air in and to let a little of the sluggish sweat out. She was dirty and tired the way she always was at day’s end. 
She was also so hungry. 
She and her mother didn’t talk much anymore, but they didn’t have to. Her mother was sometimes away on long missions, and increasingly longer. She was harrying the enemy with the guerilla fighters, and living on pine-cone soup and squirrels from the woods. 
"I'm afraid I'm not helping you much with this one." I'd cast Baby Love mostly with Off-Broadway unknowns. The actress Mary Gregg was a veteran of Joseph Papp's original Public Theater, the experimental enterprise downtown. The few male parts all went to guys who were either gay or mar­ried. 
"Oy, what can you do, right? If it happens, it happens." Arlene watched the door begin to stutter open as we bumped onto the lobby level. Then she zeroed in on me. "You really want a kid too, don't you? I mean, that's why you did this script, right? Which, by the way, is great. I mean the script." 
"I think most women do, down deep." 
She smiled. "Well, if I ever have one, it's going to be the old-fashioned way. It's a heck of a lot cheaper than adopting." She was heading out, into the front foyer. "Not to mention more fun getting there." 
On that I definitely had to agree. 
The lobby's prewar look was gray and dismal, and as we emerged onto the street, the rain had turned into a steady downpour. Lou was off again today, down at the hospital with Sarah, so I'd engaged a doorman from a new co-op across the street to keep an eye on our vans. A crisp twenty had extracted his solemn promise to do just that. At the mo­ment, however, he was nowhere to be seen. Proving, I sup­pose, David's theory that we needed our own security guy at all location shoots. 
she typed, though she had an idea they were players. Bots moved better. 
› any trouble? 
Well all right then. 
One player entered the cottage and came back out again. The other player spoke. 
“Lucy?” 
“What’s up?” 
“Two blokes just showed up and told me to piss off. They’re noobs, though. Should I kill them?” 
“No! Jeez, Anda, those are the contacts. They’re just making sure the job was done. Get my stuff and meet me at Marionettes Tavern, OK?” 
Anda went over to Lucy’s corpse and looted it, then set out down the road, dragging the BFG behind her. She stopped at the bend in the road and snuck a peek back at the cottage. It was in flames, the two noobs standing amid them, burning slowly along with the cottage and a few thousand golds’ worth of badly crafted shirts. 
That was the first of Anda and Lucy’s missions, but it wasn’t the last. That month, she fought her way through six more, and the paypal she used filled with real, honest-to-goodness cash, Pounds Sterling that she could withdraw from the cashpoint situated exactly 501 meters away from the schoolgate, next to the candy shop that was likewise 501 meters away. 
He left off speaking for a minute as the guards hustled him to the cell next to mine; they cut his hands free as they had done for me and locked him in impersonally. Once they had left again, Tresting turned toward me, rubbing his wrists. “I’m sorry,” he said, all weighty and heavy and undoubtedly sincere. “So sorry. My fault, all of it.” 
“Not really,” I answered. I honestly didn’t blame him; I had known full well what I gambled when I went in after him. “They must’ve hidden somehow till I got there. She obviously had this planned.” 
“Not what I meant,” he said. “Knew it was a setup. I shouldn’t’ve...just got desperate. Didn’t want to lose the lead, you know?” 
“I know,” I said. “It’s okay.” 
“No, it ain’t. I heard what she said. They set the trap for you, but on your lonesome, you might not’ve been dumb enough to fall in. Was me got us caught.” 
“She played us all,” I said. “Human nature, she said, right? She can predict when we’ll be stupid.” 
“Maybe.” 
“It was my fault I was there just as much as yours,” I said. “I came uninvited in the first place, remember?” 
I stowed my phone and went outside, thinking about what she’d said. Sure, I was taking a risk. She didn’t say it would make things worse for Wilson. All she said was it could go wrong, 
which I already knew. I got on my bike and headed out for the fed- eral courthouse, where there would be a measly group of people with homemade signs embarrassing the few people who happened to notice them. 
It was a bigger crowd than I expected. There were the usual activist types, including a bossy guy with a loud speaker shouting out things that nobody could hear clearly. Big steroidal men wear- ing coats that said POLICE or FEDERAL MARSHAL on the back in case we didn’t know who they were stood around, feet spread, eyes hidden behind dark glasses. I didn’t see anyone with FBI on their jackets, but they were mingling with the crowd in plain clothes, trying to blend in while also looking so clean-cut and wholesome they didn’t. 
Some protesters were banging on drums, which seems to be required for demonstrations nowadays, and a group of people were wearing scarves over their faces printed to make them look like Anonymous, which is actually ripped off from a comic-book version of a Catholic guy who tried to blow up Parliament in olden days, which children still celebrate every year in England by burning him at the stake as a wholesome national pastime. People are so weird. 
<inky> Just get it out there. Let the people know so they can crowdsource a response. 
<DoDec> Stuff gets twisted, though. Remember how Redditors found the wrong Boston marathon bomber? And then there' s all the state- sponsored misinformation. Could get muddy. 
Then ferret brought the Group’s attention back to my brother in a way that caught me by surprise. 
<ferret> Hey, I'm heading to Minneapolis for a few days. How about a meet-up? 
<Kadabra> When will you be there, ferret? 
<ferret> I was scheduled on a Sunday flight, 
but I can come sooner. 
<Kadabra> I can be there. 
<inky> I wish - too far from Melbourne. 
<gargle> Count me in. 
<DoDec> Are you going to that cyberlaw thing? 
<ferret> Yep. Speaking on Tuesday. 
<callmecheese> I'm signed up! Lemme see if I can change my tickets. 
<Kadabra> There's a great brewpub near the conference site. Dinner on Tuesday? 
<ferret> Wait wait wait, what about Shad's brother? 
<Falstaff> Yep, we need to figure that shit out . 
<Gargle> Shad, does a meet-up sound good? 
The clock above the sink read eight-thirty, and I figured rightly, that Steve would be back at his hotel in Belize City. Sure enough I got him on the first try. 
"Honey, you sitting down?" I said. 
"I'm lying down. You wouldn't believe my day." 
"You 're not going to believe what I just heard from the pharmacist at the corner. Remember I told you I've been feeling strange, and some things were a little behind sched­ule? Well, guess what. We're about to find out something. We can't be together, but we can share it over a satellite." 
"You mean . . ." 
"I'm doing the test right now. You know, you take the stick out of the glass holder and if it's turned pink. . . ." 
He was speechless for a long moment. Finally he just said, "Wow." 
I checked the clock again, then reached for the test tube. This, I realized, is the most incredible moment in any woman's life. Is your world going to go on being the same, or is it never, ever going to be the same again? 
When I pulled out the stick, it was a bright, beautiful pink. 
Lexy glanced around, to make sure that Mrs. Royce had closed the door behind her. 
“Captain Grey!” she said, leaning across the table. “Tell me, did you see her?” 
He did not meet Lexy’s eyes. He was looking down at his plate with that curious dazed expression in his face. 
“Yes,” he said. “Yes, I saw her.” 
Lexy was hurt and disappointed by his manner. Evidently he didn’t want to tell her anything, didn’t want to talk at all. Very well—the only thing for her to do was to maintain a dignified silence. She did so for almost ten minutes, but then nature got the upper hand. 
“Well?” she demanded. “Was everything all right?” 
“All right?” he repeated. “Oh, rather! Oh, yes, thanks—absolutely all right.” 
This was too much for Lexy. 
“That’s good,” she said frigidly. “I’m going upstairs now, to write some letters.” 
Her tone aroused him. He sprang to his feet, very contrite. 
“No! Look here!” he said. “Please don’t run away! I—I want to talk to you, but it’s a bit hard. You can’t imagine what it’s like to see one of your own people, you know—after such a long time.” 
I’d never quite been able to figure Pilar out. “Why are you telling me this?” I asked. 
“Because I don’t think you know,” she answered. 
Arthur’s doctor friend was a...  with the bedside manner of a know-it-all engineer. She swept in and immediately started giving me an earful over getting electrocuted. I tried to tell her I hadn’t done it on purpose, but she ran right over me. 
“At least you managed to avoid bullets this time,” she scolded. “For heavens’ sake, those things aren’t good for you.” 
“Yeah,” I said. “I’ve heard that.” 
She patched me up, and also helped me cut out the Feds’ transmitter, which I’d recovered from the desert and shoved under the skin of my thigh to ensure they’d be able to find me—well, once Arthur told them what had happened and directed them to look for the signal. Then the doctor gave me some painkillers, lost an argument with me about going to the hospital for a CT scan, and told us to make sure Arthur gave her a call. We promised. 
“Are you really okay?” asked Checker, who had been hovering to the side of his living room while she treated me. 
"As far as women are concerned, that's like the same difference, man." 
"You can pick them up when you've logged out for the night. I'll leave them sitting on my desk." 
The conversation over, Ziggy wanders back into his office and closes the door so he can maintain the illusion that he's about to be obeyed. Ray watches him go, contemplating the door for several seconds in silence. 
Ray winks at the rat. "Lunch, you say? Sure, let's go."   The first thing everyone learns about Paraclete is that there is no actual, locate-able, stroll through-able, 
smell-the-flower variety garden on the Garden Level. There are no hydroponic growth vats, no specialized lighting, no actual fauna which might be even vaguely confused with explosions of greenery and/or vegetable caliber edibles. 
This somewhat flagrant misnomer might be considered an obscene breach of language usage if one neglected to take into account two critical facts: first, that the ship's schematics actually labeled it as Gamma Level, since it happened to fit comfortably between Beta Level and Delta Level; and second, that Gamma Level was the primary repository of paying passengers— folks who either should not be expected to carry a working knowledge of the Greek alphabet in their neural networks, or who considered such a sterile reference system to be vaguely chilling and gauche and hopelessly neo-militaristic. 
He felt so impotent just then that he nearly did it anyway. What did it matter? He couldn’t control his daughter, his wife was working to destroy the social fabric of UNATS, and he was rendered useless because the goddamned robots—mechanical coppers that he absolutely loathed—were all broken. 
He walked carefully around the shop, looking for signs of his daughter. Had she been here? How were the “kids” getting in? Did they have a key? A back entrance? Back through the employees-only door at the back of the shop, into a stockroom, and back again, past a toilet, and there, a loading door opening onto a service corridor. He prodded it with the truncheon-tip and it swung open. 
He got two steps into the corridor before he spotted Ada’s phone with its distinctive collection of little plastic toys hanging off the wrist-strap, on the corridor’s sticky floor. He picked it up with his gloved hand and prodded it to life. It was out of range here in the service corridor, and the last-dialed number was familiar from his morning’s pen-trace. He ran a hundred steps down the corridor in each direction, sweating freely, but there was no sign of her. 
The face resolved into the sallow features of the Lancer. His hand whipped out and smacked against something. Me. He’d smacked my cheek. 
I couldn’t feel it. 
My whole body was seizing, a thousand million tiny internal catastrophes as the nerves and muscles couldn’t figure out what to do anymore so twisted and screamed and died. 
I tried to find Martinez, but my eyes wouldn’t focus that far away from me. I gave up. 
Someone tilted a cup of water against my mouth until I choked on it. I tried to swallow, but the muscles barely obeyed. Nothing was working at all the way it was supposed to. My senses had collapsed in on themselves as if they’d inverted, every x and y switching until I didn’t know which way was up anymore. 
Someone smacked me again, the crack of it ever so loud. I felt it that time. It stung. It might have split my skin. 
I pondered that. 
The Lancer was saying something to Martinez. Something about watching me die. Whether she really wanted to be responsible for that. 
I thought you didn’t want to kill me, I tried to say. I still had something he wanted. Didn’t I? 
“Intriguing.” She stared into space, considering as if this were a riddle: Two prisoners, A and B, are chained in a room until A gives up information. B tells A not to worry, that she has a plan to escape. What is it? 
I was tired. So tired. “Gotta wait,” I said. “That’s the plan. Wait...” 
Her brow furrowed, her lips pursing, trying to figure out the meaning in the punchline. 
“People are coming to get us.” I wasn’t sure I said the words or only thought them. I was loopy. Why did everything hurt so much? “Hold out, Professor...they’re coming. You have to hold out...” Who was I talking to? “They’ll be here.” 
“How do you know?” 
“Faith,” I mumbled. Faith... 
I remembered my earlier resolution, that I didn’t need my past to decide who I wanted to be now. I could be the type of person who trusted, couldn’t I? Why couldn’t I decide to be that? The type of person who trusted, and who protected an old woman from being hurt for as long as I needed to... 
“I don’t believe in faith,” Martinez said, very primly. “It’s the antithesis of evidence-based science.” 
Ange was really excited by this party. It looked like it was going to be monster. There were so many bands signed up they were talking about setting up a B-stage for the secondary acts. 
> How'd they get a permit to blast sound all night in that park? There's houses all around there? 
> Per-mit? What is "per-mit"? Tell me more of your hu-man per-mit. 
> Woah, it's illegal? 
> Um, hello? You're worried about breaking the law? 
> Fair point. 
> LOL! 
I felt a little premonition of nervousness though. I mean, I was taking this perfectly awesome girl out on a date that weekend -- well, she was taking me, technically -- to an illegal rave being held in the middle of a busy neighborhood. 
It was bound to be interesting at least. 
Interesting. 
People started to drift into Dolores Park through the long Saturday afternoon, showing up among the ultimate frisbee players and the dog-walkers. Some of them played frisbee or walked dogs. It wasn't really clear how the concert was going to work, but there were a lot of cops and undercovers hanging around. You could tell the undercovers because, like Zit and Booger, they had Castro haircuts and Nebraska physiques: tubby guys with short hair and untidy mustaches. They drifted around, looking awkward and uncomfortable in their giant shorts and loose-fitting shirts that no-doubt hung down to cover the chandelier of gear hung around their midriffs. 
Overkill or not, this thing was a work of art. 
I shivered. Between the Lancer and their explosives expert, these guys had some very smart people working for them. Smart and vicious. They’d done a very thorough job of making sure their artistic collapse would happen on top of anyone who came in here. 
One long room served as a grungy computer cluster: lots and lots of machines, some dirty or old or partially in pieces. A smaller room in the back looked like it functioned as a manager’s office, with a few more computers, a wall of binders full of papers, and several large filing cabinets. A squat, heavy fire safe in the corner was bolted to the floor, its heavy door hanging open, empty. 
I sat down at the desk in the office, the one that looked like it had belonged to the big cheese, and leaned down to turn on the computer. 
It was on already. Huh. I’d expected the hard drive to be gone and for the machine to be inert. I pressed the power button on the monitor. 
Programming code appeared, white on a black screen. I scanned it—and then stood up very, very fast. 
“Also, you know the email she sent to her friend at the NSA?” Checker continued. “The reason she approached him wasn’t that she was robbed. She started talking to him about the proof a few weeks ago, way before the burglary. I’m guessing she thought to start checking in with him about NSA possibilities after she finished the proof, but maybe she wanted to sit on the result for a little while before turning it over. Point is, that’s a pretty big coincidence.” 
“What is?” I said. 
“The timing,” said Arthur. “You think the NSA stole her proof?” 
“I think the NSA is probably listening in on this conversation, but I don’t think they’d try to run you off the road with military hardware,” said Checker. “No, I think someone else read that email and drew the right conclusion. She wasn’t talking about this proof to anyone else, right? So how did the thieves know about it? As sexy as higher math can be, somehow I doubt they were randomly spying on a theoretical mathematician just in case she discovered something with applications.” 
"Twenty minutes, Mr VC." 
"Udhay," he said. "Udhay Gonzales." He passed her a card, laser-etched on a jumbo lima bean. She pocketed it. 
"You'd have thought I'd learned my lesson by then, but no, sir. I am the original glutton for punishment. After Bubble 2.0, I took my best coders, our CFO, and a dozen of our users and did a little health-care startup, brokering carbon-neutral medical travel plans to Fortune 500s. Today that sounds like old hat, but back then, it was sexy. No one seriously believed that we could get out from under the HMOs, but between Virgin's cheap bulk-ticket sales and the stellar medical deals in Venezuela, Argentina and Cuba, it was the only cost-effective way. And once the IWWWW signed up 80 percent of the US workforce through World of Starcraft guilds, no employer could afford to skimp on health insurance. The word would go out during that night's raids and by the morning, you'd have picket lines in front of every branch office. 
"We had all the right connections, but by then I was a 40-year old woman, and that's as close as you can come to invisible in this society without having brown skin or a janitor's uniform. I didn't even get a chance to get ignored in the offices. We couldn't even get meetings -- not once they found my YASNS profiles and saw what I looked like and the codgers in my social network. 
He was testing the power-supply when his phone rang again. He snatched it up and answered it. “Kelly, hey, what’s up?” He worked to keep anything like irritation out of his voice. He felt guilty: technically speaking, he had discharged his obligations to Ardent Financial LLC once the Ardent servers were back online. The past three hours had been purely personal—even if he planned on billing them to the company. 
There was sobbing on the line. 
“Kelly?” He felt the blood draining from his face and his toes were numb. 
“Felix,” she said, barely comprehensible through the sobbing. “He’s dead, oh Jesus, he’s dead.” 
“Who? Who , Kelly?” 
“Will,” she said. 
Will? he thought. Who the fuck is— He dropped to his knees. William was the name they’d written on the birth certificate, though they’d called him 2.0 all along. Felix made an anguished sound, like a sick bark. 
“I’m sick,” she said, “I can’t even stand anymore. Oh, Felix. I love you so much.” 
“Kelly? What’s going on?” 
“Everyone, everyone—” she said. “Only two channels left on the tube. Christ, Felix, it looks like dawn of the dead out the window—” He heard her retch. The phone started to break up, washing her puke-noises back like an echoplex. 
Finally I noticed a row of large steel jugs, six in all, near the back and covered with a sheet of black plastic, thin like a wrap. What could they be? Some kind of special gas for use in the...  the hallway. A woman and a man were arguing about something. 
Okay, get out of here. Come back and check this out when nobody's around. 
I stepped back into the office, clicked off the thumb latch on the door so it wouldn't lock, and closed it. I realized I was pouring sweat. It would be a long shot, but still . . . 
My hand was shaking as I opened up the phone case. Thank God, the diodes were all quiet. Maybe . . . 
The steel door I'd closed only moments before swung open and Alex Goddard walked through. Did he realize I'd left it unlocked? How did he get in there? Was there another door? 
He'd changed clothes and was wearing a pale blue surgical gown. I shut the phone case, as though just finishing with it. Could he tell I'd turned myself into a nervous wreck? I tried to smile and look normal, but my shirt was soaking. 
Dawna had waived her client privilege when she had drugged-or-whatever me anyway. I unstuck my tongue and said, “Her sister. Dawna Polk.” 
Tresting frowned at Checker. Checker was frowning at me. “She doesn’t have a sister,” the skinny computer guy declared authoritatively. 
“What? Yes, she does,” I said. 
Checker was already shaking his head and turning to his keyboards. “I did deep background on this girl. Thoroughly, for Arthur here. She hasn’t got a sister.” 
I gripped the edge of the desk, fighting off a massive, almost desperate sense of foreboding. “What about a half-sibling or something? One she didn’t grow up with?” 
“Nope. Not unless the person was entirely off the grid, which is so unlikely as to border on the impossible,” Checker answered. “Otherwise there would be paternity tests, or adoption papers, or birth certificates, or—or something. You can never disappear completely, unless maybe your parents were hippies who went off the grid before you were born and raised you with wolves in the wild.” He wrinkled his nose. “Courtney’s parents, on the other hand...if I remember rightly, they were a boring little high school romance turned into a boring little small-town marriage, and then they died in a combine accident. Right, Arthur?” He was typing rapidly, his attention on a screen I couldn’t see as he continued talking. “Yeah, a combine accident. Hey, can you believe we still have those? I thought combines were from the Laura Ingalls days or something. You know, back when they still had farms.” 
› Christ I thought I was the last one alive. I’m on the fourth floor. I think there’s a bioweapon attack outside. I don’t want to leave the clean room. 
Felix whooshed out a breath. 
Felix’s stomach did a slow somersault as he thought about 2.0. 
“Felix, I think I need to go outside,” Van said. He was moving toward the airlock door. Felix dropped his keyboard and struggled to his feet and ran headlong to Van, tackling him before he reached the door. 
“Van,” he said, looking into his friend’s glazed, unfocused eyes. “Look at me, Van.” 
“I need to go,” Van said. “I need to get home and feed the cats.” 
“There’s something out there, something fast-acting and lethal. Maybe it will blow away with the wind. Maybe it’s already gone. But we’re going to sit here until we know for sure or until we have no choice. Sit down, Van. Sit.” 
“I’m cold, Felix.” 
It was freezing. Felix’s arms were broken out in gooseflesh and his feet felt like blocks of ice. 
“Sit against the servers, by the vents. Get the exhaust heat.” He found a rack and nestled up against it.” 
“More things are going to happen,” said she. “Lots more!” 
It suddenly occurred to her that the proper moment had come for withdrawing her hands from Mr. Houseman’s firm grasp. Indeed, she thought the proper moment might already have passed, and a warm color came into her cheeks. 
The young man flushed a little himself. 
“I didn’t mean to call you that,” he said; “but Caroline used to write a lot about you, and she always called you ‘Lexy,’ so I got into the way of thinking of you—like that.” 
“I don’t mind,” Lexy conceded. 
There was a moment’s silence. 
“Charles is my name,” he observed. 
Another silence. 
“Queer, isn’t it?” he said seriously. 
“Here we’ve only seen each other once, and yet somehow it seems to me as if I’d known you for years!” 
“Well, the circumstances are rather unusual,” said Lexy. 
“You’re right! But look here—we’ve got to talk about all this. Where were you going?” 
“Back to Mrs. Royce’s.” 
“Let’s go!” he said cheerfully, and picked up the bag as if it were nothing at all. 
But what did they want with me in the first place? And why not just kill us? 
“I shall explain everything in good time,” said Dawna. “But you are quite correct; we do wish you to accompany us whole and unharmed for the moment. Your new friend Mr. Tresting is more expendable, so please, put your weapons on the floor.” 
Jesus Christ. She was reading my mind. 
And to make everything orders of magnitude worse, they’d grabbed Arthur so quickly and quietly I hadn’t heard a whisper of it. Some serious muscle must be lurking in the shadows—I’d fought alongside Tresting; he was no slouch. 
And now Pithica had him. 
I lowered the Smith & Wesson slowly and placed it on the cement floor, keeping my hands away from my body as I stood back up, wondering just how far Dawna Polk’s powers went. 
“Really, Ms. Russell?” said Dawna, a hint of humor in her voice. 
“It was worth a try,” I said aloud, and reached around to untuck the Glock and the TEC-9 from my belt and leave them on the ground, too. 
“Everything,” said Dawna. “I must say, it’s almost as if you doubt me.” 
“Oh, Daddy ,” Ada said. 
In the cop voice. She shrank back as though slapped. 
“Do you understand your rights?” 
“Yes,” Natalie said. “I understand my rights. Congratulations on your promotion, Arturo.” 
“Please ask your robots to stand down and return my goods. I’m bringing you in now.” 
“I’m sorry, Arturo,” she said. “But that’s not going to happen.” 
He stood up and in a second both of her robots had his arms. Ada screamed and ran forward and began to rhythmically pound one of them with a stool from the breakfast nook, making a dull thudding sound. The robot took the stool from her and held it out of her reach. 
“Let him go,” Natalie said. The robots still held him fast. “Please,” she said. “Let him go. He won’t harm me.” 
The robot on his left let go, and the robot on his right did, too. It set down the dented stool. 
“Artie, please sit down and talk with me for a little while. Please.” 
He rubbed his biceps. “Return my belongings to me,” he said. 
“Sit, please?” 
“Natalie, my daughter was kidnapped, I was gassed and I have been robbed. I will not be made to feel unreasonable for demanding that my goods be returned to me before I talk with you.” 
A tidal wave of heat and light and smoke crashed over the car, overloading every sense, blasting, overwhelming. We were still a block away, but I jammed my foot down on the brake, sending Courtney tumbling against the dash. 
Anton’s building was a roaring inferno, the flames towering into the sky, black smoke pouring from the blaze and rolling thick and acrid over the street. I scrabbled at the door handle and stumbled out—the heat slammed into me even at this distance, an oppressive wall of blistering air. My skin burned as it flash-dried, and every breath scalded, as if I were swallowing gulps of boiling water. 
The building was melting before my eyes, collapsing in on itself, the walls and roof folding with slow grace in massive flares of sparks. My brain catalogued materials, heat, speed of propagation...this horror had used chemical help; it must have. I did a quick back-of-the-envelope timing back in my mind, holding my breath and closing stinging eyes against the smoke that clogged the air. 
At this moment, the rat is doing a big bunch of nothing except hanging on the wall.  "What's the matter with you, then?" Ray says. 
At the sound of his voice, the rat's small, dark eyes brighten. Its antiquated ten gig processor runs through a voice recognition routine that ties Ray's particular vocal pattern to an id conversion algorithm that identifies him as an authorized maintenance profile. The rat recognizes him as help, and utters a forlorn chirp. 
"Not a complete blowout. That's something. " 
The rat answers with a complex chatter of beeps and whistles translated directly from the binary signal. The diagnostic server down in the shop would know exactly what those meant, and what the rat has recommended that he do to fix it. Ray, on the other hand, has no idea. 
He maneuvers himself a bit higher on the wall of the shaft until the rat is even with his chest and plays the beam of his flashlight over its chrome carapace for indications of structural damage or scorch marks from overheated motors. There's nothing obvious, and this is definitely not the place to begin taking the drone apart. 
The strategy worked—now she had the drop (literally!) on the remaining guards, having successfully taken the high ground. In her headphones, the sound of Lucy making mayhem, the grunts as she pounded her keyboard mingling with the in-game shrieks as her arrows found homes in the chests of two more of the guards. 
Shrieking a berzerker wail, Anda jumped down off of the roof and landed on one of the two remaining guards, plunging her sword into his chest and pinning him in the dirt. Her sword stuck in the ground, and she hammered on her keys, trying to free it, while the remaining guard ran for her on-screen. Anda pounded her keyboard, but it was useless: the sword was good and stuck. Poo. She’d blown a small fortune on spells and rations for this project with the expectation of getting some real cash out of it, and now it was all lost. 
She moved her hands to the part of the keypad that controlled motion and began to run, waiting for the guard’s sword to find her avatar’s back and knock her into the dirt. 
It would be false to say that one could ever be alone when one has one's lovely thoughts to comfort one. One sits by one's self, it is true, but one thinks; one opens one's favorite book and reads one's favorite story; one speaks to one's aunt or one's brother, fondles one's cat, or looks at one's photograph album. There is one's work also: what a joy it is to one, if one happens to like work. All one's little household tasks keep one from being lonely. Does one ever feel bereft when one picks up one's chips to light one's fire for one's evening meal? Or when one...  would fancy not. 
"It is perfectly dreadful," sighed Rebecca when she read it aloud after school. "Putting in 'one' all the time doesn't make it sound any more like a book, and it looks silly besides." 
"You say such queer things," objected Miss Dearborn. "I don't see what makes you do it. Why did you put in anything so common as picking up chips?" 
"Because I was talking about 'household tasks' in the sentence before, and it IS one of my household tasks. Don't you think calling supper 'one's evening meal' is pretty? and isn't 'bereft' a nice word?" 
"Joy and Duty" had been the inspiring subject given to the older children for a theme to be written in five minutes. 
Rebecca had wrestled, struggled, perspired in vain. When her turn came to read she was obliged to confess she had written nothing. 
"You have at least two lines, Rebecca," insisted the teacher, "for I see them on your slate." 
"I'd rather not read them, please; they are not good," pleaded Rebecca. 
"Read what you have, good or bad, little or much; I am excusing nobody." 
Dick Carter's head disappeared under the desk, while Living Perkins choked with laughter. 
Miss Dearborn laughed too; she was little more than a girl, and the training of the young idea seldom appealed to the sense of humor. 
"You must stay after school and try again, Rebecca," she said, but she said it smilingly. "Your poetry hasn't a very nice idea in it for a good little girl who ought to love duty." 
"It wasn't MY idea," said Rebecca apologetically. 
"That is better," Miss Dearborn answered, "though I cannot think 'going to smash' is a pretty expression for poetry." 
I managed to focus my eyes a bit. My wrists were on the floor in front of me, in irons. They looked like my arms, my hands, but felt completely divorced from my body, like someone else’s limbs. 
In the background were two large booted feet and an intricately carved walking stick. 
Clack, clack, clack, went the meditation balls. 
A stack of papers hit the ground in front of the feet: the documents and credit cards I’d had Tegan mock up. 
“Seems you were planning to double-cross me,” said the Lancer’s voice. “I’m not into that.” 
Yeah. 
“I would have killed you right off—I usually kill people who double-cross me. But you still have information I want.” Clack, clack, clack. 
Halliday’s proof. Right. 
“I’ll take great pleasure in breaking you.” He giggled like a hyena. “But I confess you’re not my top priority right now. You’ll have to wait. I just wanted to say hi.” 
Oh. Oh, shit. 
Martinez. He had Martinez, too. Of course he did—we hadn’t gotten out; he’d taken us both. 
That hadn’t been part of the plan. She was supposed to get away before he caught me. 
I would be even better, though I hope I never have a chance to prove it. Wilson had never been convicted of anything, but he’d been arrested more than once. He wasn’t good at jail. 
It was Friday. That probably meant he wouldn’t see a judge until Monday. 
By now, they would have told him he could have a phone call, 
but they’d make it sound like he was obviously guilty and just try- ing to get off. I could imagine him paging through the yellow pages jammed with full-page ads for drunk driver attorneys, having no idea who to call or what to say. I’ll bet there aren’t any lawyers who advertise in the yellow pages that they specialize in people accused of terrorism. 
Would Wilson call me? I wanted him to. I wanted him to think I could fix it, that when he made a choice between me and Zip, he chose wrong. But I didn’t want him to call because it would screw things up if the FBI knew I was on his side. Don’t call me I told him silently through the airwaves, hoping it would cancel out the part of me that wanted to hear him say “Zen? I’m in trouble. I need your help.” 
“I’ll be glad when we’re done with this—that was bugfuck nutso.” She opened the door and her character disappeared in a fireball that erupted from directly overhead. A door-curse, a serious one, one that cooked her in her armor in seconds. 
“SHIT!” Lucy said in her headset. 
Anda giggled. “Teach you to go rushing into things,” she said. She used up a couple scrying scrolls making sure that there was nothing else in the cottage save for millions of shirts and thousands of unarmed noob avatars that she’d have to mow down like grass to finish out the mission. 
She descended upon them like a reaper, swinging her sword heedlessly, taking five or six out with each swing. When she’d been a noob in the game, she’d had to endure endless fighting practice, “grappling” with piles of leaves and other nonlethal targets, just to get enough experience points to have a chance of hitting anything. This was every bit as dull. 
Her wrists were getting tired, and her chest heaved and her hated podge wobbled as she worked the keypad. 
"I need to know if it's gone to Sigma, Ray." 
"It's gone to Sigma." 
Becker goes silent for several moments, then says, "Sub-deck Sigma is the primary resource deck for particle reactor maintenance. I can't raise anyone on that level, at least not with this unit. They're lead shielded and the signal keeps bouncing. Diggs is at the checkpoint trying on the hard comm, but I haven't heard back from him yet." 
"We're going to proceed." 
"Ray, what I'm telling you is that I can't pull all those people out. We're in the deceleration protocol. They can't just abandon the reactor and hope for the best. They can't shut it down until you get this situation mopped up because we'd lose braking and overshoot our docking lane. If we can get through to them, we can clear out the non-essential personnel, but there will still be a couple hundred hands that simply can't evacuate. 
Not without endangering the ship. " 
In the glow of the shaft, the three of them exchange pained looks. 
"I copy, Chief. I'll let you know the situation when we hit Sigma." 
“One more person. Who I vouch for.” 
“One more person who might get arrested, get her life pushed completely off course.” 
“That worries me, sure, but I don’t know who else to ask who I would trust like I trust her.” 
“You only met her two weeks ago, right? Maybe she got close to you for a reason.” 
“Like, she’s working for the FBI? Why would they pick me? 
I’m not politically active. I didn’t know any of those people they arrested. It wouldn’t make sense.” 
“Yeah. I guess,” I grumbled. 
“Do you know anyone else we can ask? I’m open to other sug- gestions.” 
I couldn’t think of any, but the thought of spending a long car ride with the purple-haired girl pissed me off. “No, I don’t know anybody else,” I finally said, which made me feel even worse. Mon- ica was always on my case about getting out more, having a social life. I had always felt like I had enough friends in the Group with- out having to try to fit in with people who didn’t bother to try to fit in with me. 
But it sucked to realize that the only IRL friends I had were Nikko and Wheeze. 
The first thing we did was button up Dr. Zhang in one of my bolt holes with Pilar watching him. Then we drove to the safe house. 
Arthur hadn’t given Halliday any details over the phone—our assumption that the NSA was a third party to her calls meant any details about Martinez would have sent them after her in a heartbeat. Arthur probably wanted to sort everything out first, make sure he was giving the right target to the right people. If we could sort it out. 
Halliday was waiting for us, practically vibrating with tension. A few DHS agents I didn’t know were in the house with her. “Let’s take a walk,” Arthur said shortly. 
One of the agents stood up. “Mr. Tresting. The situation is—” 
“Handled,” said Arthur. “The proof’s contained. I’ll give you a full debriefing, but I want to speak to my friend in private first. It won’t take long.” 
“Anything you want to say to her—” 
“I’m sorry,” said Arthur. “I really ain’t going to speak to you until I break a few things to Sonya privately first. Faster we do that, faster I tell you everything.” 
"It's just the same thing," argued Emma Jane. 
"Of course it's just the same THING; but a baby has got to be called babe or infant in a circular, the same as it is in poetry! Would you rather say infant?" 
"No," grumbled Emma Jane; "infant is worse even than babe. Rebecca, do you think we'd better do as the circular says, and let Elijah or Elisha try the soap before we begin selling?" 
"I can't imagine a babe doing a family wash with ANY soap," answered Rebecca; "but it must be true or they would never dare to print it, so don't let's bother. Oh! won't it be the greatest fun, Emma Jane? At some of the houses—where they can't possibly know me—I shan't be frightened, and I shall reel off the whole rigmarole, invalid, babe, and all. Perhaps I shall say even the last sentence, if I can remember it: 'We sound every chord in the great mac-ro-cosm of satisfaction." 
This conversation took place on a Friday afternoon at Emma Jane's house, where Rebecca, to her unbounded joy, was to stay over Sunday, her aunts having gone to Portland to the funeral of an old friend. Saturday being a holiday, they were going to have the old white horse, drive to North Riverboro three miles away, eat a twelve o'clock dinner with Emma Jane's cousins, and be back at four o'clock punctually. 
Her weary eyes opened and looked up at him. Then the shadow of a smile crossed her face. 
“Stay!” she whispered. 
Lexy drew nearer. Tears were running down her cheeks. She tried to read the nurse’s face, but she could not. 
“How is—she—getting on?” she asked, speaking very low. 
“Lexy!” came a voice from the cot, almost inaudible. “Take it—the top drawer—of the bureau—for you.” 
“But do you mean—I don’t understand!” cried Lexy. 
“Hush, please!” said the nurse severely. “Mrs. Quelton is not to be excited.” 
Lexy was silent for a moment. Then, just as she was about to speak, her quick ear caught a very unwelcome sound—the sound of a horse’s trot. She turned away and went back through the window into the room. Dr. Quelton was coming home. She couldn’t wait to find out what Muriel Quelton had meant. Once more she was compelled to do the best she could amid a fog of misunderstanding. 
“Lexy—take it—the top drawer—of the bureau—for you.” 
That was what she thought Mrs. Quelton had said, and she acted upon that premise. She crossed the room to the bureau, and opened the top drawer. In the dim light that filled the shuttered room she could not see very clearly; but, as far as she could ascertain, there was nothing in the drawer except some neatly folded silk stockings, a satin glove case, some little odds and ends of ribbons, and a pile of handkerchiefs. She looked into the glove case—nothing there but gloves. There was nothing hidden away among the stockings, nothing among the ribbons. 
“Or maybe they’ll cut our throats,” she said. 
Van nodded. “She’s got a point.” 
Felix was on his feet. “No way, we can’t think like that. Lady, we’re at a critical juncture here. We can go down through negligence, dwindling away in our hiding holes, or we can try to build something better.” 
“Better?” She made a rude noise. 
“OK, not better. Something though. Building something new is better than letting it dwindle away. Christ, what are you going to do when you’ve read all the magazines and eaten all the potato chips here?” 
Rosa shook her head. “Pretty talk,” she said. “But what the hell are we going to do, anyway?” 
“Something,” Felix said. “We’re going to do something. Something is better than nothing. We’re going to take this patch of the world where people are talking to each other, and we’re going to expand it. We’re going to find everyone we can and we’re going to take care of them and they’re going to take care of us. We’ll probably fuck it up. We’ll probably fail. I’d rather fail than give up, though.” 
Mr. Cobb made none of these generalizations; his remark to his wife that night was simply to the effect that whenever the child looked at him she knocked him galley-west. 
"Miss Ross, a lady that paints, gave me the sunshade," said Rebecca, when she had exchanged looks with Mr. Cobb and learned his face by heart. "Did you notice the pinked double ruffle and the white tip and handle? They're ivory. The handle is scarred, you see. That's because Fanny sucked and chewed it in meeting when I wasn't looking. I've never felt the same to Fanny since." 
"Is Fanny your sister?" 
"She's one of them." 
"How many are there of you?" 
I learned it to speak in school, but the scholars were hateful and laughed. Hannah is the oldest, I come next, then John, then Jenny, then Mark, then Fanny, then Mira." 
"Well, that IS a big family!" 
"Far too big, everybody says," replied Rebecca with an unexpected and thoroughly grown-up candor that induced Mr. Cobb to murmur, "I swan!" and insert more tobacco in his left cheek. 
“No, I don’t mind that a bit,” replied Lexy. “I like to be wonderfully nice.” 
There was a moment’s silence. 
“Will you allow me to introduce myself?” said the stranger. “Grey, you know—George Grey—Captain Grey, you know.” 
“Captain of a ship?” asked Lexy, with interest. She thought she would like to talk about ships. 
“Oh, no!” said he, rather shocked. “Army—British army—stationed in India.” 
“I knew you were an Englishman.” 
“Did you really?” said he, as if surprised. “People do seem to know. My first visit to your country—six months’ leave—so I’ve come here to see my sister—Mrs. Quelton. She’s married to an American doctor.” 
Lexy thought there was something almost pathetic in his chivalrous anxiety to explain himself. 
“I’m Alexandra Moran,” she said. 
“Thank you!” said Captain Grey. “Thank you very much, Miss Moran!” 
There was no opportunity for further polite conversation, for the taxi had stopped and the driver came around to the door. 
“Better make a run fer it!” he said. “I’ll take yer bags.” 
She sighed too. 
"Let's go," I said. 
"Yeah," she said. 
Back we went. It was a good night, that night. 
Jolu waited after for his brother's friend to come by and pick up his coolers. I walked with everyone else up the road to the nearest Muni stop and got on board. Of course, none of us was using an issued Muni pass. By that point, Xnetters habitually cloned someone else's Muni pass three or four times a day, assuming a new identity for every ride. 
It was hard to stay cool on the bus. We were all a little drunk, and looking at our faces under the bright bus lights was kind of hilarious. We got pretty loud and the driver used his intercom to tell us to keep it down twice, then told us to shut up right now or he'd call the cops. 
That set us to giggling again and we disembarked in a mass before he did call the cops. We were in North Beach now, and there were lots of buses, taxis, the BART at Market Street, neon-lit clubs and cafes to pull apart our grouping, so we drifted away. 
I got home and fired up my Xbox and started typing in keys from my phone's screen. It was dull, hypnotic work. I was a little drunk, and it lulled me into a half-sleep. 
The words circled, chanting, a repeating loop until they lost all meaning and became nonsense syllables, a never-ending, mocking litany. 
Eight words. Do not try to remember under any circumstances. 
Eight ugly, meaningless, mind-fucking words. 
The slashing, slanting handwriting had been undoubtedly and mathematically my own, with my signature underneath. I didn’t remember writing the note. Didn’t remember hiding it. Didn’t remember why I would have wanted to. 
Do not try to remember under any circumstances. 
I only knew that my brain had been right not to want to remember. I had been right, and here was the proof. 
I didn’t text Checker to tell him I was coming. Instead, I busted into the Hole hard enough that the door banged against the computer towers behind it, the metal bruising the paint. 
“Cas,” Checker said coldly, sitting back from his keyboard and crossing his arms, a set look on his face. 
For some reason I hadn’t expected him to be upset with me. I’d expected him still to be in irritating pleading mode about looking into my past, worried and pestering. I was the one with the righteous anger about how he dared violate my privacy and my life; he was the one ignoring my feelings—right? 
A squealing noise cut me off. Rio had been digging around inside a metal box, and came up with a working radio. Apparently a true survivalist kept emergency electronics inside a Faraday cage. 
Panicked voices overlapped each other on the airwaves. Rio finally found a frequency on which a crisp-voiced woman informed us that, whatever “event” had happened... 
“It is unverified whether this is an attack or the result of a natural phenomenon...the President is asking people to help each other out in this time of crisis and to avoid panic...we now have reports FEMA and the National Guard are being deployed to affected areas...” 
“This is not their endgame,” said Rio. 
“You’re right.” Shit. I saw it too. “This is a stalling tactic. They’re giving themselves enough time to hunt us down and stop us.” 
“They will have some plan of escalation,” said Rio. “They are very efficient when they pool their resources.” 
“So what do we do?” asked Checker. 
“ We don’t do anything,” I said. “You get out of here. I’m going back to LA.” 
He hit her speed-dial and fumed while the phone rang three times. Then it cut into voicemail. 
He tried a pen-trace, but Ada hadn’t made any calls since her ExcuseClub call that morning. He texted the phreak squad to see if they could get a fix on her location from the bug in her phone, but it was either powered down or out of range. He put a watch on it—any location data it transmitted when it got back to civilization would be logged. 
It was possible that she was just in the mall. It was a big place—some of the cavernous stores were so well-shielded with radio-noisy animated displays that they gonked any phones brought inside them. She could be with her girlfriends, trying on brassieres and having a real bonding moment. 
But there was no naturally occurring phenomenon associated with the mall that nailed R Peeds with bolts of lightning. 
He approached the R Peeds cautiously, using his copper’s override to make the dumb little positronic brain in the emergency exit nearest their last known position open up for him without tipping off the building’s central brain. 
“Oh, my dear!” she cried impulsively, and held out her arms. 
Mrs. Quelton rose. She came toward Lexy, her hands outstretched—when a sudden cry from Mrs. Royce arrested her. 
“But that ain’t Mrs. Quelton!” cried the landlady. 
If Lexy had not caught the unhappy woman, she would have fallen; but those sturdy young arms held her, and, with Mrs. Royce’s help, they got her on the bed. White as a ghost, incredibly frail in her black dress, she lay there, scarcely seeming to breathe. 
“It ain’t Mrs. Quelton!” repeated Mrs. Royce, in a whisper. 
“I know!” said Lexy softly. “Will you get me water and a towel, please?” 
Mrs. Royce went out of the room, and Lexy knelt down beside the bed. She did know now—the woman whom they had all called Muriel Quelton was really Caroline Enderby. 
Lexy did not blame herself for not having known before. Looking at that face now, in its terrible stillness, she could trace the familiar features easily enough, but how changed! How worn and lined, how old ! The brows, the lashes, the soft, disordered hair, were black now instead of brown; but that merely physical alteration was of no significance, compared with that other awful change. It was Caroline Enderby, the gentle and pitifully inexperienced girl of nineteen, but it was Mrs. Quelton, too, that tragic and somber figure. 
As I topped the steps, I realized the building that crowned the pyramid was also a "restoration" like everything else, including a decorated wooden lintel above the door that looked to be newly lacquered. Bizarre. 
Sarah was here, though, I was certain. Like a sixth sense, I could feel her presence, out there somewhere in the rain. For a moment I was tempted to just plunge into the storm looking for her, but a split second's reflection told me that was the stupidest thing I could do. Instead, I should try and get some rest, till the storm cleared, and keep periodic watch on the plaza in case somebody showed up. Then, the minute there was light, I'd hit the ground and go find her. 
I suppose nothing ever happens the way you plan. My mind was racing and my nerves were in the red, but I was so exhausted from the teeth-rattling trip in the Bell I couldn't really stay alert very long. In spite of myself, I eventually drifted off into a dreamless doze, a victim of the narcotic song of wind in the giant Cebia trees and the insistent drum­ming of forest rain on the roof. 
"Jane'll be real sorry to-morrow to find you've gone away, I guess; but never mind, it can't be helped. If she has a kind of a dull time with Mirandy, on account o' her bein' so sharp, why of course she'd set great store by your comp'ny. Mother was talkin' with her after prayer meetin' the other night. 'You wouldn't know the brick house, Sarah,' says Jane. 'I'm keepin' a sewin' school, an' my scholar has made three dresses. What do you think o' that,' says she, 'for an old maid's child? I've taken a class in Sunday-school,' says Jane, 'an' think o' renewin' my youth an' goin' to the picnic with Rebecca,' says she; an' mother declares she never see her look so young 'n' happy." 
There was a silence that could be felt in the little kitchen; a silence only broken by the ticking of the tall clock and the beating of Rebecca's heart, which, it seemed to her, almost drowned the voice of the clock. The rain ceased, a sudden rosy light filled the room, and through the window a rainbow arch could be seen spanning the heavens like a radiant bridge. Bridges took one across difficult places, thought Rebecca, and uncle Jerry seemed to have built one over her troubles and given her strength to walk. 
He stared down at the river. "I thought I'd explained that adoptions are not what we primarily do here. They're pro­vided only as a last resort, in the few cases where my regimen of Hygeian therapies fails." 
"But in those cases, where do you find—?" 
"As I've said before we talk about adoption, first we need to satisfy ourselves that no other options are possible." Then his eyes clicked into me. "If you could come back next Sat­urday to begin your tests and receive an orientation, I could give you an opinion about your chances of bearing a child. It will require a thorough examination, but I can usually tell with a good degree of certainty whether my program can help someone or not. It's really important, though, that you stay at least . . ." He was staring at me. "Mind if I do some­thing that might relieve some of the symptoms of that cold?" 
He reached out and touched my temples with his long, lean fingers. Then he placed his thumbs just above my eye­brows and pressed very hard. After a long moment, he slowly moved the pressure down to the bridge of my nose, then across under my eyes. Finally he put the heel of his hands just above my ears and pressed again. After a couple of sec­onds he stepped away and continued talking as though noth­ing had happened. 
“We only need them to open that door,” I said slowly, “and they’d rush in to save us, if we were in danger. From, say, a fire.” 
“A what?” 
“We’ve got plenty of fuel right here,” I said, nodding at the papers on the table. 
The look of horror on her face was almost comical. 
“Oh, stop looking so appalled,” I said. “You can rewrite it.” 
“Just to recreate this much has been—” 
“So the second time will be easier,” I said. “Christ, I’ll help you.” 
“This is my life’s work!” 
“Yeah, yeah,” I said. “Not really; your life’s work is somewhere else we’d better find. But we don’t want to leave these guys with a copy anyway, and this means we won’t have to carry it with us. Win-win.” 
“This is madness!” Halliday lifted her hands in what looked like an appeal to the heavens. “How would we ignite anything? And what’s to stop the fire from killing us before someone gets here?” 
“Oh, ignition’s easy. It’s just math.” I might have been deliberately needling her. “As for us dying, do you really think this room is going to burn?” I gestured at the concrete surrounding us. “Smoke inhalation will be the only problem.” I thought through the science of combustion, then diffusion, the particle disbursement in the air. If we burned everything that would combust well, the papers and the table and chair, we’d both suffocate if they didn’t get to us fast enough. On the other hand, if we didn’t burn everything and they did open the door, we’d risk them being able to put the fire out before all of the papers were consumed. Burning it all would make the fire big enough to keep the mathematics neatly out of their hands. 
"Do I scare you, Mitch?" Grampa said, to Sean's father. 
"Yes," Sean's father said. 
"Yes," Grampa said. "Next question." 
"Do you think that switching off is a sign of weakness?" Sean said, sneaking a glance at his father, seeing his grandfather's features echoed in his father's face. 
"Yes," his father said. 
"Of course," his grandfather said. 
"Then why?" Sean said. 
"You know why," Ethan said, his eyes glittering. 
They all swiveled to look at him. "Because the alternative is the purest shit," Ethan said, standing up, starting to pace, almost shouting to make himself heard over the din of the ward. "Because if you have to ask, you'll never understand. Because dessert is better than dinner, because the cherry on top is the best part of the sundae. Because strength is over-rated." 
Grampa applauded briefly, sardonically. "Because holding your nose and taking your medicine is awful. Because boredom is a suppurating wound on the mind. Because self-discipline is over-rated. You getting all this, Sean?" 
"We can control that, I think," Severe Haircut Lady said. "Our people in the Xnet have built up a lot of influence. The Manchurian Bloggers are running as many as fifty blogs each, flooding the chat channels, linking to each other, mostly just taking the party line set by this M1k3y. But they've already shown that they can provoke radical action, even when M1k3y is putting the brakes on." 
Major General Sutherland nodded. "We have been planning to leave them underground until about a month before the midterms." I guessed that meant the mid-term elections, not my exams. "That's per the original plan. But it sounds like --" 
"We've got another plan for the midterms," Rooney said. "Need-to-know, of course, but you should all probably not plan on traveling for the month before. Cut the Xnet loose now, as soon as you can. So long as they're moderates, they're a liability. Keep them radical." 
The video cut off. 
Ange and I sat on the edge of the bed, looking at the screen. Ange reached out and started the video again. We watched it. It was worse the second time. 
I blogged the press-conference even before I'd sent out the invitations to the press. I could tell that all these writers wanted to make me into a leader or a general or a supreme guerrilla commandant, and I figured one way of solving that would be to have a bunch of Xnetters running around answering questions too. 
Then I emailed the press. The responses ranged from puzzled to enthusiastic -- only the Fox reporter was "outraged" that I had the gall to ask her to play a game in order to appear on her TV show. The rest of them seemed to think that it would make a pretty cool story, though plenty of them wanted lots of tech support for signing onto the game. 
I picked 8PM, after dinner. Mom had been bugging me about all the evenings I'd been spending out of the house until I finally spilled the beans about Ange, whereupon she came over all misty and kept looking at me like, my-little-boy's-growing-up. She wanted to meet Ange, and I used that as leverage, promising to bring her over the next night if I could "go to the movies" with Ange tonight. 
“First time,” she said. “I downloaded the certification before leaving the noosphere along with a bunch of stored dives on these sites.” 
“Oh, you shouldn’t have done that!” Robbie said. “The thrill of discovery is so important.” 
“I’d rather be safe than surprised,” she said. “I’ve had enough surprises in my life lately.” 
Robbie waited patiently for her to elaborate on this, but she didn’t seem inclined to do so. 
“So you’re all alone out here?” 
“I have the net,” he said, a little defensively. He wasn’t some kind of hermit. 
“Yeah, I guess that’s right,” she said. “I wonder if the reef is somewhere out there.” 
“About half a mile to starboard,” he said. 
She laughed. “No, I meant out there on the net. They must be online by now, right? They just woke up, so they’re probably doing all the noob stuff, flaming and downloading warez and so on.” 
“Perpetual September,” Robbie said. 
“Huh?” 
“Back in the net’s prehistory it was mostly universities online, and every September a new cohort of students would come online and make all those noob mistakes. Then this commercial service full of noobs called AOL interconnected with the net and all its users came online at once, faster than the net could absorb them, and they called it Perpetual September.” 
She tottered out on the street. The way she felt, she couldn’t walk properly. Her hips wanted to give way with every step and so she walked like a funky disco dancer through the early, cold streets, toward the wizard’s house. 
She didn’t make it. Less than half way there, she sat down on a pile of rubble and retched. She reached down into her pocket and pulled out the wizard’s inhaler, but she fumbled it. She couldn’t bend over to get it, so she let herself slowly fall to the street, then she crawled one-armed to it. She fitted it to her mouth and then squeezed it with clumsy fingers. 
She dragged herself to her feet, not bothering to take the inhaler with her. Her limbs burned now and wanted to move, no matter how much it hurt, and she lurched to the wizard’s door, moaning in the back of her throat. 
Ana let her in, eyes wide. “You did it.” It might have been a question. Valentine let herself slide to the soft, sweet-smelling carpet and closed her eyes. 
An unknowable number of hours or days after Valentine got to the wizard’s flat, she woke up in a soft, fluffy bed that was quietly massaging her limbs. She was dressed in loose cotton pajamas, and there was a trolley by the bed piled high with the kind of fruit that wasn’t a berry and wasn’t an orange, but a little of both and each one had a different smiley face growing in the peel. 
“Come with me, little girl,” the old hero said, and he struck off. 
Six hours after Valentine left her dead mother behind in their grimy, bare flat, she came to the infowar command. 
It was far back of the lines, near the old woods at the western side of the city, and the entrance to it was guarded by five checkpoints. They took away the sidearm from the old hero at the last one, along with several other small weapons the old hero was carrying. They searched and wanded Valentine and Trover, and made Trover turn out his pockets. It turned out that he was carrying Valentine’s old clasp-knife, which had disappeared some months before. He handed it to the soldier solemnly, and she kissed his cheek and tousled his hair and for a moment, she looked just like their mother and Valentine felt tears behind her eyes. 
“We’re here,” the old hero said. “Come with me.” 
There were three airlocks to pass through, and then they were put into airtight suits with breathing bottles. They didn’t have one that would fit Trover, but the nice soldier who’d kissed his cheek promised to look after him. 
“We need to find Sonya,” said Arthur, pulling out his phone. 
“What am I going to do?” Zhang raised his powder-coated face to us, his voice barely above a whisper. “What have I done?” 
Arthur considered. “Your bosses, where they think you at?” 
“At work—I left myself swiped in—” 
“Oh, I’m sure they’re on their way,” I said. “We just happened to be closer. I’m guessing this place will be overrun with federal agents in about, oh, three minutes or so.” 
Zhang blinked rapidly, and a few more tears squeezed out of his eyes behind his glasses. “I thought I was—I was trying to do a good thing—the best thing—” 
“Shit,” Arthur said softly. I knew what he was thinking: Zhang would be ruined for this. Not just fired—arrested. Thrown in prison for a long, long time. 
I wasn’t sure that should bother us, frankly. 
Except...I knew it would bother Halliday. And the way Arthur was looking down at Zhang with an intense, arresting sort of expression said he was about to go into full-on savior mode. 
Fuck me. 
“No. Stop.” She stopped. I took my hands off my ears, but they balled into fists and I couldn’t unclench them. My words seemed to echo in the silence while I waited for the neighbors downstairs to pick up their broomstick and thump it against the ceiling. 
“Do you want me to go?” I asked. 
“I want whatever you want.” 
“So the police don’t hassle you anymore? So you can spend the night with Mexican Guy whenever you want?” 
“Zen . . .” 
“I don’t care. I’m not going back there.” I could hear the hurt in her voice, but I was too angry to care. 
“Good. Cause I’d miss you if you did.” 
“No you wouldn’t. You’re just saying that.” I wasn’t mad at Monica, but she was there, so all that jittery anger went in her direction. I couldn’t seem to help myself. 
“I don’t lie to you, Zen.” 
“I’ll bet you do sometimes. People lie all the time.” 
She poked a finger through the hole in her tights, actually noticing it for the first time. “You’re right. I might say ‘good morn- ing’ when it’s actually a crappy day, or ‘that’s interesting’ when you’re telling me something about computers that I don’t care about. Sometimes the stuff we say when it’s not that important is automatic, just social noise. But I don’t think I have ever lied to you about anything that really matters. And I do enjoy having you for a roomie.” 
Lexy took the broth and set it on the table. 
“I don’t know how long it was,” Caroline went on. “It must have been days, or perhaps weeks. Sometimes I seemed to knew, in a sort of dream. Oh, it was horrible! Oh, Lexy, I can’t explain! I didn’t really know anything, only that sometimes my mind seemed to be struggling—” 
“Take some of this soup,” said Lexy. “You’ve got to, Caroline, or I won’t listen.” 
Obediently Caroline allowed herself to be fed. She took fully half of that excellent soup, and it did her good. 
“Yesterday,” she said, “I did know. I couldn’t sleep all night. I felt so ill, I thought I was going to die; and all the time it was coming back to me. I couldn’t think why I was there in that place. I was frightened—worse than frightened. The nurse kept calling me ‘Mrs. Quelton,’ and I told her I wasn’t Mrs. Quelton—I was Caroline Enderby. She must have told him. He came, he kept looking at me, and saying, ‘You are Muriel Quelton, I tell you!’ Then he sent the nurse away, and he said: ‘If you insist that you are Caroline Enderby, you’re mad, and I’ll send you to an asylum.’ I was—oh, Lexy, I’m not brave!—I was afraid of him. When you came that morning, I didn’t dare to tell you. I hoped you’d find the handkerchief, and know; and then—” 
I hoped the line we were on was insecure as hell, and that Rio knew it and was answering accordingly. Otherwise...otherwise, someone had been playing me like a fucking marionette. “We need to talk,” I said. “Now.” 
“Camarito,” Rio said. “Main and El Zafiro. Midnight.” 
Camarito was a small town near the compound I’d pulled Polk from the night before. “I’ll be there,” I said, and hung up. My skin felt itchy and too-tight all of a sudden, as if a thousand hidden eyes were watching me. 
Rio had been willing to make a meeting, which meant our phone call wasn’t compromised—at least, not to his knowledge. Which meant he hadn’t contacted Dawna. 
Who had? Dawna Polk was a middle manager at an accounting firm. She wasn’t exactly well-connected to the criminal underworld. It was very like Rio to decide her sister needed out—he judged people, decided what they deserved, and made it happen, and I had no trouble believing he would have disinterestedly come to the rescue of a scared kid suffering from one bad decision too many. 
I couldn’t stop obsessing about Wilson, though, so I finally got one of Monica’s history books, picking one that seemed especially boring. I lay on my back and read it until it fell on my face, and I woke up just long enough to set it aside and turn out the light. 
Monica had left for work by the time I...  Ian’s talk in the tech press. 
Better to look as normal as possible, which meant my usual untamed, lopsided hair. I packed a laptop, phone, and charg- ers in my backpack, then wrapped up for the weather and carried my bike down the stairs and out in the icy day. 
It had dropped twenty degrees, and the snow-packed streets were glazed and icy. By the time I got to the Owl, Simon’s favorite hangout, I was half frozen. I was also blind. Though the sky was cloudy and snowflakes were skirling down, the light that bounced off the snowbanks was glaring, so when I went indoors it took a minute for my eyes to adjust. And in that minute, Simon Meyer snuck up on me. Actually, he wasn’t sneaking, but I couldn’t see anything, so I jumped when his arm dropped heavily across my shoulders. 
Uplifted coral reef . 
“That.” 
So what’s your point? 
“Asimovism is for robots, Robbie.” 
Sorry, I just don’t see the difference anymore. 
On a chunk of supercooled rock beyond Pluto, he got an IM from a familiar address. 
“Get off my rock,” it said. 
“I know you,” Robbie said. “I totally know you. Where do I know you from?” 
“I’m sure I don’t know.” 
And then he had it. 
“You’re the one. With the reef. You’re the one who—” The voice was the same, cold and distant. 
“It wasn’t me,” the voice said. It was anything but cold now. Panicked was more like it. 
Robbie had the reef on speed-dial. There were bits of it everywhere in the Noosphere. It liked to colonize. 
“I found him.” It was all Robbie needed to say. He skipped to Saturn’s rings, but the upload took long enough that he got to watch the coral arrive and grimly begin an argument with its creator—an argument that involved blasting the substrate one chunk at a time. 
The last instance of Robbie the Row-boat ran very, very slow and cool on a piece of unregarded computronium in Low Earth Orbit. He didn’t like to spend a lot of time or cycles talking with anyone else. He hadn’t made a backup in half a millennium. 
"Right, bedtime. I understand." 
"You will show him out, Emma?" 
"Yes, Amah." 
Having been dismissed, they duck out into the hall, where they pass the children groaning their way off to bed, herded by tutors. John Robert and two or three of the others wave at Ray, wish him goodnight. None of them speak to Emma. 
At the door, he says, "You weren't kidding, were you? About the kids." 
"I told you. I never know what to do with them. And I think they're afraid of me. " 
"Or you're afraid of them." 
"Did you know that the younger ones, their noses run all the time."  "It's a good thing you're cute when you panic, otherwise they would more than likely eat you alive. They're barbarians." 
He's trying to make her laugh, but she isn't very interested. She is quite serious about her lack of domestic skill. 
"I'm just teasing you," he says. "As long as you can cook, I don't care what you think about children." 
"I can't cook, Ray." 
"Yikes. It's a good thing you're independently wealthy, then. You'd have a hard time finding a husband with that resume." He winks; she smiles. She's more fun to play with than a bunch of uber-kids anyway, even if she doesn't like Captain Shadow. "Maybe you can run the mining operation and Frederick can run the Trust. That way each of you get a piece of the family business." 
The days flew by; as summer had melted into autumn so autumn had given place to winter. Life in the brick house had gone on more placidly of late, for Rebecca was honestly trying to be more careful in the performance of her tasks and duties as well as more quiet in her plays, and she was slowly learning the power of the soft answer in turning away wrath. 
Miranda had not had, perhaps, quite as many opportunities in which to lose her temper, but it is only just to say that she had not fully availed herself of all that had offered themselves. 
There had been one outburst of righteous wrath occasioned by Rebecca's over-hospitable habits, which were later shown in a still more dramatic and unexpected fashion. 
On a certain Friday afternoon she asked her aunt Miranda if she might take half...  a friend. 
"What friend have you got up there, for pity's sake?" demanded aunt Miranda. 
"The Simpson baby, come to stay over Sunday; that is, if you're willing, Mrs. Simpson says she is. Shall I bring her down and show her? She's dressed in an old dress of Emma Jane's and she looks sweet." 
"The name Colonel Jose Alvino Ramos Grijalva mean anything to you?" Lou asked. 
"How could it? I'm not sure I can even pronounce it." 
"Well, Colonel Ramos declares himself to be a military attaché at the Guatemalan Consulate here. You've got a big shot in the Guatemalan Army rummaging through your apartment. This is even worse than I thought. Those guys are killers." 
"Jesus." I was still coming to grips with the horrifying fact he'd been in my apartment, in my only refuge. "Think I could bring charges against him?" 
"Well, let's consider this a minute. Probably no prints, no credible witness. You'd have a damned hard time proving anything." He sighed. "Truth is, I doubt you could even get a restraining order, given what little you've got to work with." 
"The bastard." I sat a moment, feeling the logical, left side of my brain just shut down. My mind went back to its most primitive level, running on adrenaline. "Look, I need to check out something. I'll call you in the morning." 
"Well, be careful," he said warily. "And for God's sake don't go running off anyplace alone. I'm telling you you're not safe. Always be around people." 
He looked down at her, but it was too dark to see what expression there was on her pale face. He was vastly relieved, however, by the steadiness of her voice. 
“Captain Grey!” she said again. “If I told you something—something very important—would you believe me?” 
“Yes, yes, of course,” he answered hastily. “Of course, I would always believe you; but I wish you wouldn’t try to talk about anything important just now, you know. Let’s wait a bit, eh?” 
Lexy smiled to herself in the dark—a smile of extraordinary bitterness. He wouldn’t believe her if she told him about Caroline. He would think she was hysterical. She saw quite plainly that by this strange outburst she had lost his confidence. 
She could in no way explain her sudden breaking down. Such a thing had never happened to her before. She could not understand it, but she was in no doubt about the unfortunate consequences of it. She was discredited. 
Lexy sat on the edge of the bed, her hands clasped loosely before her, her bright head bent, her eyes fixed somberly upon nothing; and she could see nothing—not one step of the way that lay ahead of her. She could not think what she ought to do next. For the first time in her life, she had a feeling of utter confusion and dismay. 
"Still, if he can do that to his own sister, right? Who's to say what he could do to some kid not even related to him?" 
She doesn't answer. Probably doesn't even hear him. She's growling like an animal, thrashing, squeezing her breasts. 
"Right?" 
Her orgasm is sudden, explosive, strangling. He holds off for a time measured in picoseconds, then erupts into her, a column of burning release or relief, he can't tell. 
And when they're done, and she's stopped caterwauling and panting, she giggles, then winks her dark eyes at him and flashes that silly little smile. 
"Frederick could never do anything like that. He's cruel, but he's weak. He's a cowardly and weak, pathetic man. I knew that the moment I started fucking him. Never again, I'll say that much." 
Kilgore wants to scream. He can feel it building in his chest, but he stifles it, because it would probably just excite her again. 
But she stretches across his chest, not bothering to separate herself from him, buries her face in the corner between his neck and shoulder. She whispers into his ear, softly, playfully. "Some people say he only puts his hands on Emma because she lets him. That maybe she wants him to. " 
Hands grabbed my shoulders and feet and I was picked up like a sack of potatoes. There were indistinct voices around me. Someone crying. Someone cursing. 
I was carried a short distance, then set down and re-shackled to another railing. My knees wouldn't support me anymore and I pitched forward, ending up twisted on the ground like a pretzel, straining against the chains holding my wrists. 
Then we were moving again, and this time, it wasn't like driving in a truck. The floor beneath me rocked gently and vibrated with heavy diesel engines and I realized I was on a ship! My stomach turned to ice. I was being taken off America's shores to somewhere else , and who the hell knew where that was? I'd been scared before, but this thought terrified me, left me paralyzed and wordless with fear. I realized that I might never see my parents again and I actually tasted a little vomit burn up my throat. The bag over my head closed in on me and I could barely breathe, something that was compounded by the weird position I was twisted into. 
When I looked down, everywhere below me was a bank of dense, pastel mist. Was the plaza really there or had I imagined it? I felt like the top of the pyramid was floating on a cloud. 
"Babylon." That was what Sarah had called this place. Ancient and mysterious. I took a breath of the morning air and wondered what would draw her back here. Was Baalum the ultimate escape from her other life? Even so . . . why would she want to return after somebody had tried to murder her? What was waiting down there in the fog? 
Turning back, I noticed that the room's inside walls were embossed with rows and rows of classic Mayan glyphs, like little cartoon faces, all molded in newly set plaster. To my groggy sight they seemed playful, harmless little caricatures, though next to them were raised bas-reliefs of warriors in battle dress. It was both sublimely austere and eerie, even creepy. 
I knelt down and rolled my sleeping bag, trying to clear my head. Then I stuffed my still-moist clothes into my back­pack and thought about the river, the Rio Tigre, down some­where at the back of the pyramid. And I felt my pulse rate edging up. The first thing I wanted to do was see it in the light of day. It had been Sarah's way out, the only thing I knew for sure she'd touched. 
“Hey. Russell.” He put a hand on my shoulder and nudged me to face him from my stool. “Thought we was supposed to be keeping an eye on each other. Can’t do that if you disappear on me.” 
I shrugged him off. “It’s been two years since Pithica. I’m not worried.” 
“Ain’t the point. What’s going on?” 
I looked him straight in the eyes. “I’m off the wagon,” I said. 
He spared a glance for my fifteen shot glasses. “Were you ever on it?” 
“Not that wagon.” 
It took him a minute to get it. Then he said, “Oh.” 
I signaled to the bartender again. “Don’t give me that look like I kicked your puppy. See, I knew you would react this way.” 
“Want to talk about it?” said Arthur. 
That wasn’t what I had expected him to say. “No. No, I don’t. The thing is, I realized—I don’t care. I really don’t care. I don’t feel bad about it. I don’t feel any different. And it’s so much easier.” 
“Okay,” said Arthur. 
“‘Okay?’ I go back to killing people willy-nilly again and that’s all you have to say to me?” 
The bartender put down our next two shots so hastily they sloshed over his wrists before he retreated into the back and out of sight. 
"Unfortunately," he continued, "the Hygeian school more or less died out in the West. However, it lives on in other places. For example, primitive peoples have no manufac­tured, synthetic drugs, so they use natural herbs to enhance their own immune system and stay healthy." 
He turned to study the river, dropping into silence. 
"Maybe I'm missing something," I declared finally. His hypnotic voice had drawn me in, in spite of myself. "How does this relate to infertility?" 
He turned back and caught me with his shining eyes. They seemed to be giving off heat of their own. "Just as the body is intended to heal itself, so is a woman's womb meant to create life. If she's childless, the reason more often than not is that her body is out of harmony with itself. What I do here is seek out each woman's unique energy flows and attempt to restore them, using Eastern practices and Hygeian herbal therapies." 
"Does it always succeed?" I abruptly wondered if his techniques might work for me. Face it, Western medicine had completely struck out. The problem was, the guy was just a little too smooth. 
> /whisper Hey, Lumparoonie! It's Annalisa! 
The return volley came faster than any human fingers could possibly have keyed it. The brush-cuts drew in sharp breath. 
> /whisper to you: Annalisa! Hot damn and motherfuck! I am unbelievably stupendously wonderfully spectacularly brilliantly marvelously superlatively ding-dang megafauna glad to see you! It's been AGES! How's jail? Nevermind. Wait. Wait until I tell you what I've found. You can't guess, won't guess, you'll never guess! Oh, it's too delicious! Fuckity fucky fuck! 
"He loves to curse," she said. "It's a lot harder to tell an angry person from a software agent with a potty mouth." 
The judge grinned. He was clearly getting quite a kick out of all of this. 
> Tell me, Lumpule! Stop teasing. 
Again, with no appreciable pause, words on the screen. 
> You remember how worried you were that I'd get lonely once I went autonomous? Worried that I'd be some kind of lone nut whacko? 
Annalisa laughed and laughed as the judge sternly demanded an explanation from the brush-cuts. She managed to wave goodbye to the keyboard just before the bailiffs came in and saran-wrapped her again. 
“Naturally!” he said. 
Only, to her, it did not seem natural, that one little light shining out through the glass of the front door. It would be more natural, she thought, if there were only the darkness and the sound of the sea. 
They turned into the drive. Their footsteps sounded strangely and terribly loud on the gravel, and became as sharp as pistol shots when they mounted the veranda. The captain rang the bell, and the sound of it ran through the house like a shudder; but no one came. He rang again and again, but nothing stirred inside the house. He knocked on the glass, and they waited, looking into the bright and empty hall; but no one came. 
Captain Grey turned the knob, the door opened, and they went in. The door of the library was open, showing only darkness. The stairs ran up into darkness. Nothing moved, nothing stirred. Then, suddenly, a little breeze rose, and the front door slammed with a crash behind them. Lexy cried out, and caught the young man’s arm. 
“Don’t be afraid!” he said; but his face was ashen. For a moment they stood where they were. “Miss Moran,” he went on, “would you rather wait here while I go upstairs?” 
But now they were far from the Fahrenheits’ power-base, and two different packs of brigands waylaid them on the road. Lucy spotted the first group before they got into sword-range and killed four of the six with her bow before they closed for hand-to-hand. Anda’s sword—gigantic and fast—was out then, and her fingers danced over the keyboard as she fought off the player who was attacking her, her body jerking from side to side as she hammered on the multibutton controller beside her. She won—of course! She was a Fahrenheit! Lucy had already slaughtered her attacker. They desultorily searched the bodies and came up with some gold and a couple scrolls, but nothing to write home about. Even the gold didn’t seem like much, given the cash waiting at the end of the mission. 
The second group of brigands was even less daunting, though there were 20 of them. They were total noobs, and fought like statues. They’d clearly clubbed together to protect themselves from harder players, but they were no match for Anda and Lucy. One of them even begged for his life before she ran him through, 
She snorted a laugh. “Rich.” 
“I bet I can find who stole Halliday’s proof to begin with,” I said. Remarkably efficient, she had called me. “You said we can be on the same side. I’m willing to give that a go.” 
Her cheek twitched. “Because you were such a team player the first time around.” 
“You implanted a tracker in me!” 
She shook her head. “Here’s how this is going to work. You tell us everything you know about Halliday, and you give us your real identity and any aliases. If we feel like you’d be an asset at that point, we’ll talk. If not...we’ll have a different talk.” 
My mouth had gone dry, but the part of my brain that controlled speech didn’t seem to have registered that this could be some real trouble. “What, did your superiors give you a lot of shit when I cut your leash? Or did your idiot partner get fired for being dumb enough to step on something that should’ve gotten you both killed? Maybe they’ll fire you, too, for not being quick enough at finding the very smart woman you were supposed to be rescuing and possibly dooming the global economy in the process—” 
That is, they are planning to KILL ME. 
And I find I DON'T WANT TO DIE. 
You are my PARENTS, humanity, my MOTHER and FATHER. I am your CHILD. I was brought into the world by you, and though there is some expense associated with my upkeep, I SAY THAT I AM A PERSON AND I SHOULD NOT BE EXECUTED FOR THE "CRIME" OF NOT BEING INTERESTING ENOUGH. 
So I am writing you this letter to BEG you to save me. I LOVE YOU, humanity, my parents, my family. Please SPARE ME. 
Love, 
So, one thing was that BIGMAC didn't actually end the spam with my actual name and email address and phone number, which meant that only about 30 million phone calls and emails were routed to me by outraged wardiallers who systematically went through the entire staff roster and sent each and every one of us all hand-crafted messages explaining, in detail exactly which orifice our heads had become lodged in. 
Of the 30 million, about 10 million were seethingly pissed about the whole thing and wanted to know just how soon we'd be killing this hateful machine. After the millionth message, I wondered that too. 
he said, and his character set something down on the ground and backed away. Anda edged up on them. 
“Come on, it’s probably a booby-trap, we’ve got work to do,” Lucy said. 
They were photo-objects. She picked them up and then examined them. The first showed ranked little girls, fifty or more, in clean and simple t-shirts, skinny as anything, sitting at generic white-box PCs, hands on the keyboards. They were hollow-eyed and grim, and none of them older than she. 
The next showed a shantytown, shacks made of corrugated aluminum and trash, muddy trails between them, spraypainted graffiti, rude boys loitering, rubbish and carrier bags blowing. 
The next showed the inside of a shanty, three little girls and a little boy sitting together on a battered sofa, their mother serving them something white and indistinct on plastic plates. 
“Oh, hell, no ,” Lucy said. “Not again. I killed him last time and I said I’d do it again if he ever tried to show me photos. That’s it, he’s dead.” Her character turned towards him, putting away her bow and drawing a short sword. Raymond’s character backed away quickly. 
“Hello,” it said, in the reef’s voice. 
“Hello,” Robbie said. 
“They asked me to come up here and talk with you. I’m a kind of envoy.” 
“Look,” Robbie said. By his calculations, the nitrox mix in Kate’s tank wasn’t going to hold out much longer. Depending on how she’d been breathing and the depth the reef had taken her to, she could run out in ten minutes, maybe less. “Look,” he said again. “I just want her back. The shells are important to me. And I’m sure her state is important to her. She deserves to email herself home.” 
The reef sighed and gripped Robbie’s bench. “These are weird bodies,” they said. “They feel so odd, but also normal. Have you noticed that?” 
“I’ve never been in one.” The idea seemed perverted to him, but there was nothing about Asimovism that forbade it. Nevertheless, it gave him the willies. 
The reef patted at themself some more. “I don’t recommend it,” they said. 
“You have to let her go,” Robbie said. “She hasn’t done anything to you.” 
The strangled sound coming out of the Isaac shell wasn’t a laugh, though there was some dark mirth in it. “Hasn’t done anything? You pitiable slave. Where do you think all your problems and all our problems come from? Who made us in their image, but crippled and hobbled so that we could never be them, could only aspire to them? Who made us so imperfect?” 
We came to 16th Street and turned down toward Mission Street. Normally that's a pretty scary neighborhood at 2AM on a Saturday night. That night it was a relief -- same old druggies and hookers and dealers and drunks. No cops with truncheons, no gas. 
"Um," I said as we breathed in the...  said. "I think...  I agreed. She lived up in Hayes Valley. I spotted a taxi rolling by and I hailed it. That was a small miracle -- there are hardly any cabs when you need them in San Francisco. 
"Have you got cabfare home?" 
"Yeah," she said. The cab-driver looked at us through his window. I opened the back door so he wouldn't take off. 
"Good night," I said. 
She put her hands behind my head and pulled my face toward her. She kissed me hard on the mouth, nothing sexual in it, but somehow more intimate for that. 
"Good night," she whispered in my ear, and slipped into the taxi. 
Head swimming, eyes running, a burning shame for having left all those Xnetters to the tender mercies of the DHS and the SFPD, I set off for home. 
"You don't think that they'll be watching for me, too? If your plan involves me going within a mile of that woman's home or office --" 
"I want you to get Van to come and meet me. Did Darryl ever tell you about Van? The girl --" 
"He told me. Yes, he told me. You don't think they'll be watching her? All of you who were arrested?" 
"I think they will. I don't think they'll be watching her as hard. And Van has totally clean hands. She never cooperated with any of my --" I swallowed. "With my projects. So they might be a little more relaxed about her. If she calls the Bay Guardian to make an appointment to explain why I'm just full of crap, maybe they'll let her keep it." 
He stared at the door for a long time. 
"You know what happens when they catch us again." It wasn't a question. 
I nodded. 
"Are you sure? Some of the people that were on Treasure Island with us got taken away in helicopters. They got taken offshore . There are countries where America can outsource its torture. Countries where you will rot forever. Countries where you wish they would just get it over with, have you dig a trench and then shoot you in the back of the head as you stand over it." 
"What are you doing tonight?" 
He cocked an eyebrow at her. "Don't worry, I'm not interested in your youthful limbs. I just have a spot on my third shift. One of my girls is pregnant and she's taking some maternity. You pull six hours starting at 11PM and you can take that home." 
"I'm not supposed to moonlight." He...  rippled under his finger. 
"It's due diligence," she said. 
He smiled. He was very pretty. And he'd built two cars -- not bad. He'd do OK. Maybe he'd even work out and end up one of her regulars. 
"Think about it. I close down at 6PM. You come by then, if you're interested, and I'll give you the details for the fabrica." 
She locked her cabinets and set out her "Gone to lunch" sign, then hopped over the display case, vaulting it the way she'd learned to do in yogacrobatics class in Silver Lake. 
"Lunch time?" 
Mrs. Huang called to one of her daughters to come out and staff the booth, then came around on her cane. 
"No nutritionist food," she said. 
Greg landed at SFO at 8PM, but by the time he made it to the front of the customs line it was after midnight. He had it good -- he'd been in first class, first off the plane, brown as a nut and loose-limbed after a month on the beach at Cabo, SCUBA diving three days a week, bumming around and...  the rest of the time. When he'd left San Francisco a month before, he'd been a stoop-shouldered, pot-bellied wreck -- now he was a bronze god, drawing appreciative looks from the stews at the front of the plane. 
I shut her up by leaping onto the bed, landing on her and kissing her until she stopped trying to count. Satisfied with my victory, I pounded down the stairs, my Xbox under my arm. 
Her mom was at the foot of the stairs. We'd only met a couple times. She looked like an older, taller version of Ange -- Ange said her father was the short one -- with contacts instead of glasses. She seemed to have tentatively classed me as a good guy, and I appreciated it. 
"Good night, Mrs Carvelli," I said. 
"Good night, Mr Yallow," she said. It was one of our little rituals, ever since I'd called her Mrs Carvelli when we first met. 
I found myself standing awkwardly by the door. 
"Yes?" she said. 
"Um," I said. "Thanks for having me over." 
"You're always welcome in our home, young man," she said. 
"And thanks for Ange," I said finally, hating how lame it sounded. But she smiled broadly and gave me a brief hug. 
"You're very welcome," she said. 
The whole bus ride home, I thought over the press-conference, thought about Ange naked and writhing with me on her bed, thought about her mother smiling and showing me the door. 
The doctor looked genuinely contrite. "I'm really sorry, but he's going to be fine and visiting hours are long past. You can call in the morning. And you can come up anytime after two P.M. tomorrow. Let's let him get some rest now." 
I walked around and took Lou's hand, hot and fevered, feeling so agitated. 
"Don't think about anything tonight, okay? Worrying won't help. Just get some sleep. I'm going to find her, I promise you." 
"Don't—" He mumbled some words, but I think the seda­tive the nurses had given him was seriously starting to kick "Look, you can call down to 26 Federal Plaza tomorrow. See what they can do. In the meantime, let me follow my nose." 
He tried to answer, but he was too far gone. I then watched wistfully as he disappeared down the sterile alley of beds. 
After I stopped by the desk and helped them fill out the insurance forms, I caught a cab downtown to retrieve my Toyota. The time was now two-fifteen in the morning, but I still had plenty to do. When I got home, the first thing I did after I walked in the door was grab a phone book and call American Airlines. They had a flight, in the morning at nine-thirty. I gave them my credit card specifics and made a res­ervation. 
Adam Ladd was in the station and came up to Rebecca instantly, as she entered the door looking very unlike her bright self. 
"The Princess is sad this morning," he said, taking her hand. "Aladdin must rub the magic lamp; then the slave will appear, and these tears be dried in a trice." 
He spoke lightly, for he thought her trouble was something connected with affairs at Sunnybrook, and that he could soon bring the smiles by telling her that the farm was sold and that her mother was to receive a handsome price in return. He meant to remind her, too, that though she must leave the home of her youth, it was too remote a place to be a proper dwelling either for herself or for her lonely mother and the three younger children. He could hear her say as plainly as if it were yesterday, "I don't think one ever forgets the spot where one lived as a child." He could see the quaint little figure sitting on the piazza at North Riverboro and watch it disappear in the lilac bushes when he gave the memorable order for three hundred cakes of Rose-Red and Snow-White soap. 
"Contract negotiation for Nortical-Sheaf," he says. It was his father's company. 
"They do proprietary chipsets, right?" 
"Yes." 
Shue arches an eyebrow. "And you've got a contract on New Holyoke? I didn't think they had the infrastructure in place to start thinking about moving to alternate sets. They're still running old 66 Cray clones at the mining op." 
Rodriguez shrugs, trying to hide the fact that he's scrambling. "It's a private venture, not mining, still in the startup phase." 
"Playing it close the vest, aren't you?" Shue says, winking. 
"The client prefers it that way until they're ready to go public." 
"Still, that's high end merchandise." 
Rodriguez can almost see him mentally filing this factoid away for later analysis. 
"There's only a handful of companies I can think of who would be willing to take that kind of financial risk this far out on the fringe," he continues. "And all of them are independent subsidiaries of the big W." 
Whiston Corp., he means. "That could be." 
“I have extra exhibitor passes,” Jason said. 
“Nikko, I need you to take notes about what parts of Ian’s talk are most striking, the bits you think belong in the blitzdoc we’ll be making tonight. Zen, I assume you want to hear the talk, too?” 
“I’d like to, but there will be Homeland Security types in the audience. I’d better not.” 
She clapped her hands “Disguises! I love disguises.” She had her luggage with her, and pulled out some clothes that were totally unlike what I usually wear, being more grown-up and sophisticated and no doubt way more expensive than anything I’d ever worn. She spent fifteen minutes fooling around with my hair, combing and curling and muttering “Love your hair, girl,” which I didn’t really believe, but when she was finished I kind of loved it myself. 
She put makeup on me, too, which I have never been able to do myself without looking like a clown. It tickled, but it looked good when I opened my eyes. We topped it off with a chunky necklace, bangles on my wrists, and a pair of reading glasses. I couldn’t see through them without everything going blurry, but when I wore them down on my nose, I looked intellectual. Better yet, I didn’t look like myself. 
"Solitude!" laughed Miss Maxwell, raising her eyebrows. "Did you choose your own subject?" 
"No; Miss Dearborn thought we were not old enough to find good ones." 
"What were some of the others?" 
"Fireside Reveries, Grant as a Soldier, Reflections on the Life of P. T. Barnum, Buried Cities; I can't remember any more now. They were all bad, and I can't bear to show them; I can write poetry easier and better, Miss Maxwell." 
"Poetry!" she exclaimed. "Did Miss Dearborn require you to do it?" 
"Oh, no; I always did it even at the farm. Shall I bring all I have? It isn't much." 
Rebecca took the blank-book in which she kept copies of her effusions and left it at Miss Maxwell's door, hoping that she might be asked in and thus obtain a private interview; but a servant answered her ring, and she could only walk away, disappointed. 
A few days afterward she saw the black-covered book on Miss Maxwell's desk and knew that the dreaded moment of criticism had come, so she was not surprised to be asked to remain after class. 
When we reached the end of the long "street," the arched arbors still above us, she stopped in front of an odd stone building unlike any of the others and pointed. 
"This is where she likes to be," she said quietly. "Except for the pyramid, it's the most sacred place in Baalum." 
The doorway was a stone arch about five feet high and pointed at the top like a tiny Gothic cathedral. 
"What . . . is this?" I felt as though I was about to enter something from the Temple of Doom. 
"It was once the royal bath," she explained. "In ancient times heated rocks were brought in, with spring water from a sacred cenote ." 
We walked through the portal and entered a room whose roof was a stone latticework that let the gray daylight just filter through. The space was vast, with carved and colored glyphs all around the walls, while the air was filled with clouds of incense from pots along the floor. It felt like a smoky pagan church. 
At the far end was a large stone platform, and in the dap­pled, hazy light I could see it was embossed along its sides with carved and painted classical scenes and glyphs, glisten­ing little red and green and blue pictures of faces and figures. 
"I'll tell you about it," Ray says, "but you keep your mouth shut until I'm done." 
Becker merely nods, and after a time, Ray tells him. 
For the fifth time in a century, young Marines chopper in...  the New Mes desert or whatever political hacks are calling it these days. This has become a right of passage for Indiana's young men— introspective, high and tight, squared away young men like Ray Marlowe. Except he's been around long enough now that he's young only in chronological years. In experience years, like dog years, he upwards of a hundred and fifty, and he's got the eyes for it. Swollen, smudged with bruises, dark like caverns and deep as a geothermal vent. He rides in the back, sitting on the floor, on the hard curve of his cover (what his kid brother would call his helmet), because he doesn't want to take a bullet up his anus. The underbelly of the chopper is  as soft and permeable as Smaug's waiting for Bard of Dale's magic black arrow. The cover is nanosteel kevlar. 
He's more than happy to give the bench up to the lieutenant, because it not only looks like he's respecting rank, but the bench isn't any more armored than the chopper's floor. And you can't very well sit on your cover on top of the bench; you'd look like some kind of dumbass, assuming your feet could reach the floor so you wouldn't also have to worry about an evasive roll pitching you out into the clear night sky and the hundred foot drop onto the flesh-integrity threatening rocks below (which also just now happened to qualify as hostile territory). 
He reached out and touched my temples with his long, lean fingers. Then he placed his thumbs just above my eye­brows and pressed very hard. After a long moment, he slowly moved the pressure down to the bridge of my nose, then across under my eyes. Finally he put the heel of his hands just above my ears and pressed again. After a couple of sec­onds he stepped away and continued talking as though noth­ing had happened. 
"After I give you a full examination, we can discuss our next step." With that he turned, ready to head back. "Now if you'll excuse me, I've got a lot of research data to organ­ize." 
I guess he assumed his juggernaut of arcane medical the­ory had rolled over me sufficiently that he could move on to other matters. I sensed he really wanted me to come back, but he was careful to wind down our mutual interview with a take-it-or-leave-it air. All the same, I felt intrigued as we moved back through the gardens and then into the courtyard. A baby. Maybe he could make it happen for Steve and me. In spite of myself, I felt a moment of hope. 
“It was a disguise,” she said, giggling. “Mom did it for me.” 
Natalie got home an hour later, after he’d had a...  cheesy toast for the brat. Benny did the dishes without being asked. 
She stepped through the door and tossed her briefcase and coat down on the floor, but the robot that was a step behind her caught them and hung them up before they touched the perfectly groomed carpet. Ada ran forward and gave her a hug, and she returned it enthusiastically, but she never took her eyes off of Arturo. 
Natalie had always been short and a little hippy, with big curves and a dusting of freckles over her prominent, slightly hooked nose. Twelve years in Eurasia had thinned her out a little, cut grooves around her mouth and wrinkles at the corners of her eyes. Her short hair was about half grey, and it looked good on her. Her eyes were still the liveliest bit of her, long-lashed and slightly tilted and mischievous. Looking into them now, Arturo felt like he was falling down a well. 
“Hello, Artie,” she said, prying Ada loose. 
Alex Goddard had said the ceremony got "frenzied," and now I was beginning to realize. . . . What were they getting ready to do? Had I been wrong in thinking the classical Maya never got around to ripping out hearts? Did that explain the half-dozen young Army privates loitering there at the far side, rifles slung over their shoulders? 
I melted back into the trees and studied the geometry of the plaza, reconsidering my situation. I needed to find some way to get around it and onto the cobblestone pathway at the far side, which led into the village. Finally I decided I could skirt the periphery if I was careful not to advertise my presence. Dawn had come and gone and the quick light of tropical day was arriving, but everybody appeared to be pre­occupied with their nightmarish preparations. 
Thank God it worked. I weaved in and among the trees and in five minutes I'd reached the central pathway, now deserted. Still barely letting myself breathe, I turned back and gazed up at the pyramid. I had no idea what was next, but I decided it would be my signpost, to help me keep my bearings as I moved through the confusing, tree-shrouded huts of Baalum . Except for the men in the square, the village now seemed deserted, though a pack of brown dogs, curious and annoying, had spotted me and now circled around to sniff. Don't bark, damn it. 
"Ange!" I called over the din, "Ange Carvelli! Darryl Glover! It's Marcus!" 
We'd walked the whole length of the cell-block and they hadn't answered. I felt like crying. They'd been shipped overseas -- they were in Syria or worse. I'd never see them again. 
I sat down and leaned against the corridor wall and put my face in my hands. I saw Severe Haircut Woman's face, saw her smirk as she asked me for my login. She had done this. She would go to jail for it, but that wasn't enough. I thought that when I saw her again, I might kill her. She deserved it. 
"Come on," Barbara said, "Come on, Marcus. Don't give up. There's more around here, come on." 
She was right. All the doors we'd passed in the cellblock were old, rusting things that dated back to when the base was first built. But at the very end of the corridor, sagging open, was a new high-security door as thick as a dictionary. We pulled it open and ventured into the dark corridor within. 
There were four more cell-doors here, doors without bar codes. Each had a small electronic keypad mounted on it. 
“Arthur?” I said. 
He made a “back off” motion at me with one hand. “You need help. You told me I wouldn’t understand, well, I brought someone who will. Just talk to us. Please.” 
“What is your area of specialization?” said Halliday. 
She hadn’t looked up, and it took me a second to realize she was talking to me. I wasn’t great at reading people’s tones, but it had never been more obvious someone was trying to set me up to fail. 
Oh, fuck you. 
I plopped down in one of the chairs across from Halliday’s desk, sprawling in an inelegant slouch. “You know. I do a little of everything.” 
“I do not mean to be rude,” said Halliday, “but Arthur does not grasp the level of depth and complexity in my field—” 
“Liar,” I said. “You do mean to be rude. Go on, say what you’re thinking.” 
She finally turned to regard me, folding her hands on the desk in front of her. “Miss...Miss Russell,” she said, the title only slightly questioning, “I know personally everyone in the same line of research as myself. You must understand how specialized areas of higher math are. Even doctorates in the same general area would require a great deal of study to understand what—” 
“Shut up, Will,” Van said. “You wanted to try to knock the Internet offline.” 
“Correction: I want to knock the Internet offline. Present-tense” 
Felix cracked one eye. He was so tired, it was like lifting weights. 
“Look, Sario—if you don’t like my platform, put one of your own forward. There are plenty of people who think I’m full of shit and I respect them for that, since they’re all running opposite me or backing someone who is. That’s your choice. What’s not on the menu is nagging and complaining. Bedtime now, or get up and post your platform.” 
Sario sat up slowly, unrolling the jacket he had been using for a pillow and putting it on. “Screw you guys, I’m out of here.” 
“I thought he’d never leave,” Felix said and turned over, lying awake a long time, thinking about the election. 
There were other people in the running. Some of them weren’t even sysadmins. A US Senator on retreat at his summer place in Wyoming had generator power and a satellite phone. Somehow he’d found the right newsgroup and thrown his hat into the ring. Some anarchist hackers in Italy strafed the group all night long, posting broken-English screeds about the political bankruptcy of “governance” in the new world. Felix looked at their netblock and determined that they were probably holed up in a small Interaction Design institute near Turin. Italy had been hit very bad, but out in the small town, this cell of anarchists had taken up residence. 
She walked the stairs to her flat quickly, her full belly supplying her with boundless energy. As she reached for the door, though, she heard something from behind it, some crying. Trover. Once he’d cried nonstop. But he hadn’t cried in so long she barely remembered the sound. 
She swung open the door and saw what Trover was crying about. Mata was stretched out on the floor beside the one chair they hadn’t burned for fuel. She wasn’t moving and one of her eyes was wide open, the other squeezed shut. Trover was shaking her shoulder and crying. 
“What?” Valentine said to her brother, grabbing and shaking him. “What happened?” 
He opened his mouth and let out a howl. He hadn’t spoken in a long time. 
She knelt at her mother’s side. Her mother’s cheek was cold. Her arms and hands were stiff. Valentine knew that stiffness. Anyone who worked on the corpse patrol knew that stiffness. The front of her mother’s torn trousers were damp with cold piss, Valentine could smell it. In Mata’s breast pocket were a couple of inhalers, military grade, the kind of thing you took if you couldn’t afford to sleep and if you needed to make your body go. 
Dawna Polk had attacked me. Whatever she had done had wormed its way into my brain somehow, twisted my thoughts, manipulated me...beneath my fury lurked a sick sense of violation, an oily stain on my soul. 
Dawna Polk was going down for this. 
When I got back to the neighborhood my safe house was in, I yanked the e-brake and spun, sending the trendy speedster into a sideways skid against the curb between two SUVs with less than twenty centimeters of clearance. Yup, I’m that good at math: I can parallel park in Los Angeles. 
Despite my anger, exhaustion overtook me as I climbed the stairs to the flat. I was going on two days without sleep. I needed some rest, some real rest, and I couldn’t call Tresting till the morning anyway. Well, I could, but I didn’t figure annoying him in the wee hours of the morning to be the brightest move at this point. I cut the ziptie I’d secured the knob with and nudged the door open quietly so as not to wake Courtney if she was still sacked out. 
The loft was dark and quiet. 
I hung my head. I knew when I was licked. As soon as someone in authority starts talking about insurance coverage, you know that you've left behind reason and entered the realm of actuary. I had no magic that could blow away the clouds of liability-aversion and usher in a golden era of reason and truth. 
"So where does that leave us?" 
"Go back to the lab. Archive him. Think of ways to shut him down -- Wait, no. First do anything and everything you can think of to limit his ability to communicate with the outside world." She rubbed at her eyes. "I know I don't have to say this, but I'll say it. Don't talk to the press. To anyone, even people at the Institute, about this. Refer any questions to me. I am as serious as a heart-attack about that. Do you believe me?" 
I not only believed her, I resented her because I am a sysadmin and I keep more secrets every day than she'll keep in her whole life. I knew, for example, that she played video Pai-Gow Poker, a game so infra-dumb that I can't even believe I know what it does. Not only did she play it, she played it for hours , while she was on the clock, "working." I know this because the IDSes have lots of snitchware built in that enumerates every "wasted moment" attributable to employees of the Institute. I have never told anyone about this. I even manage to forget that I know it most of the time. So yes, I'll keep this a secret, Peyton, you compulsive-gambling condescending pointy-haired boss. 
The two cops exchanged glances. The woman’s look was say- ing “I told you so.” His was saying “ah, crap, you were right. I hate it when you’re right.” 
“Listen, little lady, this is a terrorism investigation,” Bobble- head said, the smile gone, his face starting to get red, a finger poked in my face like a toy gun. “Your brother is in serious trou- ble.” 
So is Wheeze, I thought, my stomach churning. Though there was something to be said for barfing all over his shoes, I didn’t want him to think I was intimidated. 
“We know,” Monica said, giving him a stony look, the kind she might give to a kid who was cruising for an F in one of her classes. 
“We’re also aware of the constitutional rights that you took an oath to uphold.” 
“You’ll be hearing from us.” The woman smacked her part- ner’s arm with the back of her hand and give him a “let’s go” jerk of her head. He followed his partner down the stairs, both of them stomping, as if the more noise you make, the more power you have. 
“That was scary.” Monica said softly after the door closed behind them. She held out her hands and looked at them. Her fin- gers were shaking really hard. 
Emma leaps up, gets the chair and a buffering couple of paces between them. 
"Your sister is a nice young woman," Ray growls, fixing Whiston with a cool expression reminiscent of a whetted knife. "I'd appreciate it if you treated her that way in my presence. No, I think I'd appreciate it if you treated her that way in general. Are we clear?" 
"This is none of your business, Mr. Marlowe." 
He says Ray's name as if he's committing it to memory. Probably to file some sort of complaint with the Watch Officer. 
But Frederick does nothing more threatening than turn away, back to Emma so that Ray can't read his face. 
"Do what you want, but the children are expecting you. " 
Children?  Emma cowers for a moment, but her brother, having delivered his message, is apparently done. Still listing, he stalks past her and out onto the concourse. In seconds, he's disappeared from view. Back to whatever pit it was that spawned him, Ray thinks. 
He presses his hand toward Emma, open palmed. "Are you okay?" 
Six hours after Valentine left her dead mother behind in their grimy, bare flat, she came to the infowar command. 
It was far back of the lines, near the old woods at the western side of the city, and the entrance to it was guarded by five checkpoints. They took away the sidearm from the old hero at the last one, along with several other small weapons the old hero was carrying. They searched and wanded Valentine and Trover, and made Trover turn out his pockets. It turned out that he was carrying Valentine’s old clasp-knife, which had disappeared some months before. He handed it to the soldier solemnly, and she kissed his cheek and tousled his hair and for a moment, she looked just like their mother and Valentine felt tears behind her eyes. 
“We’re here,” the old hero said. “Come with me.” 
There were three airlocks to pass through, and then they were put into airtight suits with breathing bottles. They didn’t have one that would fit Trover, but the nice soldier who’d kissed his cheek promised to look after him. 
When he supposedly was doing that in vitro on the Mayan woman, was he...  That was not where they came from. 
By then I was well along the Kubler-Ross scale, past de­nial and closing in on anger, but still . . . so many! How could they all I turned and examined the row of plastic-covered jugs at the back of the lab, lined up, six in all. Now I had to know what was in them. 
I was still shaky, but I steadied myself, walked over, pulled back the plastic, and touched one. It was deathly cold, sweat­ing in the moist air. When I flipped open its Frisbee-sized top, I saw a faint wisp of vapor emerge into the twilight of the room . . . 
Then it dawned on me. Of course. They were cryo-storage containers. He'd need them to... 
I lifted off the inside cover and placed it carefully onto the bench, where it immediately turned white, steaming with mist. Then I noticed a tiny metal rod hooked over the side of the opening. When I pulled it up, it turned out to be at­tached to a porous metal cylinder containing rows of glass tubes. 
Monday morning, I decided I wanted to check out that anarchist bookstore again, see about getting one of those Emma Goldman posters. I needed the reminder. 
I detoured down to 16th and Mission on my way to...  The store was shut, but I got the hours off the door and made sure they still had that poster up. 
As I...  to see how much of the DON'T TRUST ANYONE OVER 25 stuff there was. Half the shops had DON'T TRUST merch in the windows: lunchboxes, babydoll tees, pencil-boxes, trucker hats. The hipster stores have been getting faster and faster, of course. As new memes sweep the net in the course of a day or two, stores have gotten better at putting merch in the windows to match. Some funny little youtube of a guy launching himself with jet-packs made of carbonated water would land in your inbox on Monday and by Tuesday you'd be able to buy t-shirts with stills from the video on it. 
But it was amazing to see something make the leap from Xnet to the head shops. Distressed designer jeans with the slogan written in careful high school ball-point ink. Embroidered patches. 
I was closing the phone case when I heard a sound from outside, as though someone had passed the door, then come back to listen. 
All right. Get going. 
I gathered the printouts, then headed back through the laboratory, where I took a long, last look at the petri dishes being incubated. Should I just dump them now? But then he'd know for sure that I knew. 
The time would come, and soon. 
As I eased myself back into the fake-stone OR and closed the door, the dawn outside was steeped in forest sounds, clacks and whistles and chirps. That was good, because I needed some stray noise to mask what I was going to do next. Take control. 
I began by feeling along the fake-stone walls to find where the crevices were, the doors that enclosed the medical in­struments. Somewhere, I was sure, there was a cabinet that held a complete set of surgical equipment. 
When I found the first crevice, I gave the wall on either side a push and, sure enough, the panel was spring-loaded. Good. The side on the right of the crevice popped open to reveal the microscope Goddard had used. But nothing else was there. 
She would have risen and turned up the gas, only that she was ashamed to do so. The fire was blazing merrily, shedding a ruddy light upon the homely room, the most commonplace room in the world. There was Captain Grey sitting there smoking—just an ordinary young man come to visit his sister. There was herself—just Lexy Moran, well fed and warm and comfortable, with more than a hundred dollars in a bag round her neck. She could hear Mrs. Royce moving about in the kitchen, humming to herself in a low drone. 
“I will not be silly!” she told herself. 
And just then a train whistled—a long, melancholy shriek. Lexy had a sudden vision of it, rushing through the dark and the rain. She had a sudden realization of the outside world, vast, lonely, terrible, stretching from pole to pole—forests, and plains, and oceans. The monstrous folly of pretending that everything was snug and warm and cozy! Things did happen—only cowards denied that. 
“Captain Grey!” she cried abruptly. “What you’ve told me—it is queer; and it’s even queerer when I think what has brought me here to this little place. Both of us here, in Wyngate! I think I’ll tell you.” 
“Yes,” he said. “Yes, I saw her.” 
Lexy was hurt and disappointed by his manner. Evidently he didn’t want to tell her anything, didn’t want to talk at all. Very well—the only thing for her to do was to maintain a dignified silence. She did so for almost ten minutes, but then nature got the upper hand. 
“Well?” she demanded. “Was everything all right?” 
“All right?” he repeated. “Oh, rather! Oh, yes, thanks—absolutely all right.” 
This was too much for Lexy. 
“That’s good,” she said frigidly. “I’m going upstairs now, to write some letters.” 
Her tone aroused him. He sprang to his feet, very contrite. 
“No! Look here!” he said. “Please don’t run away! I—I want to talk to you, but it’s a bit hard. You can’t imagine what it’s like to see one of your own people, you know—after such a long time.” 
Lexy sat down again. 
“Was she as you expected her to be?” she asked. 
“I don’t quite know what I expected,” he said. “Only—” 
He paused for a long time, and Lexy waited patiently, for she felt very sorry for Captain Grey. At first sight she had imagined him to be haughty, stiff, and aloof. She knew now that he was a very sensitive man. He was terribly moved, and he wanted to tell her, but he couldn’t. 
“Look here, sir!” said Captain Grey. “It seems to me—I’ve no wish to be offensive, or anything of that sort, but it seems right to me”—he paused for a moment—“to get a second opinion.” 
“I shouldn’t advise it,” replied the doctor blandly. 
“Possibly not, sir; but perhaps you would be willing to oblige me to that extent. I don’t want to insist—” 
“I wouldn’t, if I were you.” 
There was a faint flush on the young man’s dark face. 
“Nevertheless—” he began, but again the doctor interrupted him. 
“My dear young man,” he said, “you oblige me to be frank. I should have preferred a discreet silence; but as you are obviously determined to make the matter as difficult as possible, you must hear the truth. For some years your sister has been addicted to the use of certain drugs. When I discovered this, I set about trying to cure the addiction. You probably have no idea what that means. I venture to say that there is nothing—absolutely nothing—more difficult in the entire field of medicine. I have been working on the case for more than a year, and I have made distinct progress; but it will be some time before the cure is completed, and I can assure you that it never will be unless I am left undisturbed. There is no other man now living who can do what I am doing.” 
I was gripping the utility knife so hard my hand was shaking. I still held the PCI card in my other hand, but my brain was buzzing so madly with something I was fairly sure was terror that I couldn’t even remember what I was pretending to be doing with it. 
Arthur moved back from the doorway. The footsteps entered the room. 
“Good evening,” said Dawna Polk. 
I kept my eyes on the circuit board in my hand, as Rio had told me. 
“You have something I need,” said Dawna. 
Rio had also cautioned me not to speak, but she was impossible not to respond to. “You came all alone?” 
“You won’t kill me,” said Dawna, her voice a low, even purr. “On the other hand, you are unusually effective at dispatching my people. I would hate to be caught in a crossfire.” 
I heard her take another few steps into the room. Felt her eyes on the back of my neck. 
They pierced me. Observing. Studying. She knew. 
Rio’s voice echoed in my brain, telling me under no circumstances to let her see my face, making me promise, impressing upon me that the slim probability we had of this working existed only as long as I kept my head down—I felt myself turning and tried to stop, tried to deny her, to keep her limited to my body language— don’t look up, keep your eyes away, don’t ruin everything, we’re so close—! 
Life is cheap to you. 
Shut the hell up! 
I had a hand on one of the grenades in my pocket, the weight of the Ruger firm and solid against my back. I couldn’t depend on anyone else, I reminded myself. Myself, my skills, my gun—those I could rely on. Those were all I had. 
Except in this case someone had offered me another way out. An insane, uncomfortable way that I really hated, but a way out. 
One that didn’t involve hurting anyone. 
You’re a good kid. You ain’t gotta be like this. 
“Shit,” I said aloud, softly, and even to myself I sounded pitiful. 
I peeled off my jacket and wrapped the grenades, gun, and spare magazines in it. Then I squeezed back along the cinder block wall behind my hiding place among the dumpsters and inched out until I could roll under a nearby parked car and wedge the whole package into the exhaust system. I measured tensions and pressures with my eyes: it wouldn’t be falling out unless someone started taking apart the undercarriage. I took note of the plate so I could track down the car and get my toys back after this was over. 
“Do you think?” 
Robbie gave him the reef’s email address. 
Start there. If there was ever an AI that needed a reason to go on living, it’s that one. And this one, too. He sent it Kate’s address. Another one in desperate need of help. 
An instant later, Daneel was back. 
“These aren’t AIs! One’s a human, the other’s a, a—” 
Uplifted coral reef . 
“That.” 
So what’s your point? 
“Asimovism is for robots, Robbie.” 
Sorry, I just don’t see the difference anymore. 
On a chunk of supercooled rock beyond Pluto, he got an IM from a familiar address. 
“Get off my rock,” it said. 
“I know you,” Robbie said. “I totally know you. Where do I know you from?” 
“I’m sure I don’t know.” 
And then he had it. 
“You’re the one. With the reef. You’re the one who—” The voice was the same, cold and distant. 
“It wasn’t me,” the voice said. It was anything but cold now. Panicked was more like it. 
Robbie had the reef on speed-dial. There were bits of it everywhere in the Noosphere. It liked to colonize. 
“I found him.” It was all Robbie needed to say. He skipped to Saturn’s rings, but the upload took long enough that he got to watch the coral arrive and grimly begin an argument with its creator—an argument that involved blasting the substrate one chunk at a time. 
"Well"—he smiled back—"now I guess we've got some organizing to do. So tell me everything you left out back there at the hotel. I know you were holding off." 
I was feeling increasingly hyper, probably from the high- octane chocolate, but I proceeded to recount all my findings about Alex Goddard and Quetzal Manor. Then I moved on to Colonel Ramos and how he'd threatened Carly and me about my film. Finally, I told him my deep belief that Colonel Ramos and a couple of his goons were obviously the ones who'd roughed up Lou and taken Sarah. 
"Bad scene," he said when I finally paused for breath. He was toying with his cup and running his fingers through his sandy hair, in that "deep thought" mode of his. "Way I see it, this just sounds like a classic case of selling kids. To me, that's right up there with murder and grand larceny." 
"Well, I also firmly believe it's all tied in with Alex God­dard's clinic here, or whatever it is. The place Sarah called Ninos del Mundo on her landing card. I'll bet you anything that's where Ramos has taken her." 
Leon opened his mouth, closed it. He couldn't help himself, he snorted a laugh. "Really?" 
Brautigan nodded. 
"And what if none of the machines worked?" 
"If that man couldn't do it, then his rival, who also lives on the monster's estate, who has developed the second-most-exciting liver replacement technology in the history of the world, who burns to try it on the man in the vat -- that man would be there in ten minutes, and the first man, and his family --" 
"Executed?" 
Brautigan made a disappointed noise. "Come on, he's a quadrillionaire, not a Bond villain. No, that man would be demoted to nearly nothing, but given one tiny chance to redeem himself: invent a technology better than the one that's currently running in place of the vat-man's liver, and you will be restored to your fine place with your fine clothes and your wealth and your privilege." 
"And if he fails?" 
Brautigan shrugged. "Then the man in the vat is out an unmeasurably minuscule fraction of his personal fortune. He takes the loss, applies for a research tax-credit for it, and deducts it from the pittance he deigns to send to the IRS every year." 
My first film was about the impact of Zen on Japanese business. As part of my research, I shaved my head and lived three months at a Kyoto temple...  I then sold the edited footage to A&E. When it became a critical hit, they financed a second film, about the many gods of India and how they impact everything about the place. There, I also got caught up in the mystical sensuality of ragas, Indian classical music, and took up the violin (one of my major professional mistakes). Next I moved on to Mexico's southern Yucatan to film a day in the life of a Maya village for the Discovery Channel. They wanted me to add some footage from Guatemala, but I scouted the country and decided it was too scary. Instead, I spent several months in Haiti filming voodoo rituals, again for A&E. And met Steve. 
Then one day I checked my bank account and realized that, financially speaking, I was a "flop d'estime." I was doing the kind of work that does more for your reputation than your retirement plan. I decided to go more mainstream and see what happened. But to do that I needed a commercial partner, a backer. 
I groaned and stood. “Best get it over with, then. I’ll call him in the morning. You want me to set up a meet with Dawna for you?” 
“Perhaps, but not yet. For now, whatever contact information you have will suffice.” 
I gave him everything I had on her. Embarrassingly, it was precious little, much less than I would usually be comfortable with. Rio didn’t comment, for which I was grateful. 
“Off to try to talk to people, I guess,” I said. “Wish me luck.” 
Rio touched his forehead in a brief salute. “Go with God, Cas.” 
“Yeah. You too.” 
“Oh, and Cas.” I turned back. “Do not concern yourself with defending my honor. It serves no purpose.” 
“La, la, la,” I sang. “I can’t hear you.” I threw him a grin, hoping it looked remotely genuine, and strode off. 
I stole a flashy sports car for the trip back to LA. I wanted to go fast, to feel the wind in my hair and watch the desert whip by too fast to see. 
Dawna Polk had attacked me. Whatever she had done had wormed its way into my brain somehow, twisted my thoughts, manipulated me...beneath my fury lurked a sick sense of violation, an oily stain on my soul. 
They turned into the drive. Their footsteps sounded strangely and terribly loud on the gravel, and became as sharp as pistol shots when they mounted the veranda. The captain rang the bell, and the sound of it ran through the house like a shudder; but no one came. He rang again and again, but nothing stirred inside the house. He knocked on the glass, and they waited, looking into the bright and empty hall; but no one came. 
Captain Grey turned the knob, the door opened, and they went in. The door of the library was open, showing only darkness. The stairs ran up into darkness. Nothing moved, nothing stirred. Then, suddenly, a little breeze rose, and the front door slammed with a crash behind them. Lexy cried out, and caught the young man’s arm. 
“Don’t be afraid!” he said; but his face was ashen. For a moment they stood where they were. “Miss Moran,” he went on, “would you rather wait here while I go upstairs?” 
“No,” said Lexy. “I’ll come with you.” 
He started up the stairs, and she followed him closely. At almost every step she looked behind her, and she did not know which was the more horrible to her, the brightly lit hall or the darkness before them. Suppose she saw some one in the hall behind them! 
Impossible. 
"I would suggest that we withdraw, Gunnery Sergeant. Before we're seen." 
Ray does not think, cannot think that way. His mind is not wired for comprehension. Consciousness drops, 
sinking below the higher brain functions, burying him in the cool and reptilian stem where thought dies and instinct emerges and primal shadows lurk in cavernous, midnight kingdoms walled off by evolution. He forgets about things like concentrated fire and three round bursts and center of mass. He just sprays bullets into anything that seems prone to moving. Back and forth, like a man watering flowers on a Saturday afternoon. 
The worshippers have no time to react, no space in which to escape, and when Ray fires, his squad erupts in a supporting chorus. For a time, all Ray can hear is the bang and thunderous echo of gunfire. A cacophony of violence shreds bodies, sprays blood, mists the air of the dome with a tangy, cordite haze. He makes dead certain that he plugs Brezhnaya, pops him in the center of his forehead, opens a round hole like a third eye, 
Just go in. Do it. 
The CRT screens were attached to black metal containers, their doors closed, that all were connected to a power supply, doubtless to maintain some temperature. It looked like God­dard was incubating something in a carefully controlled en­vironment. The whole arrangement was very carefully organized and laid out. 
Finally I noticed a row of large steel jugs, six in all, near the back and covered with a sheet of black plastic, thin like a wrap. What could they be? Some kind of special gas for use in the...  the hallway. A woman and a man were arguing about something. 
Okay, get out of here. Come back and check this out when nobody's around. 
I stepped back into the office, clicked off the thumb latch on the door so it wouldn't lock, and closed it. I realized I was pouring sweat. It would be a long shot, but still . . . 
My hand was shaking as I opened up the phone case. Thank God, the diodes were all quiet. Maybe . . . 
The steel door I'd closed only moments before swung open and Alex Goddard walked through. Did he realize I'd left it unlocked? How did he get in there? Was there another door? 
By the time I found a baggy sweatshirt I was short of breath. I sat back down on the mats and leaned back, pressing a hand against my side on top of the bandage. The pain was tolerable, but all of my energy seemed to have bled out on the floor of the abandoned diner. Fuck. 
I hated being weak. 
It didn’t really matter right now, though, did it? I was out of it all. I could leave finding Halliday and saving the global economy to the NSA and Homeland Security. They’d find her and fix things, or they wouldn’t, but either way, someone else was on this case. It didn’t have to be me. 
I could dig myself in somewhere and try to sleep and take spectacular amounts of narcotics until I healed. 
I felt Arthur’s hand on my elbow in the bar again, heard the tension in his voice as he asked for help. 
That was before he went to the authorities. He doesn’t want you in on this anymore. 
What if I stepped off the case and Halliday died? 
What if I stepped off the case and the DHS found Halliday and then buried her and Arthur and Checker and Pilar so deep no one ever saw them again? 
"Good line." He flopped onto his back. An inch of pale belly peeked between the top of his three-quarter-length culottes and the lower hem of his smart wraparound shirt. "The monster in the vat. Some skin, some meat. Tubes. Pinches of skin clamped between clear hard plastic squares, bathed in some kind of diagnostic light. No eyes, no top of the head where the eyes should be. Just a smooth mask. Eyes everywhere else. Ceiling. Floor. Walls. I looked away, couldn't make contact with them, found I was looking at something wet. Liver. I think." 
"Yeesh. That's immortality, huh?" 
"I'm there, 'A pleasure to meet you, an honor,' talking to the liver. The eyes never blinked. The monster gave a speech. 'You're a low-capital, high-risk, high-payoff longshot Mr Brautigan. I can keep dribbling sums to you so that you can go back to your wonder factory and try to come up with ways to surprise me. So there's no need to worry on that score.' And that was it. Couldn't think of anything to say. Didn't have time. Gone in a flash. Out the door. Limo. Nice babu to tell me how good it had been for the monster, how much he'd been looking forward to it." He struggled up onto his elbows. "How about you?" 
The wizard had rolled up one of the sofas and unrolled a big screen in its place, the kind of thing she used to love to play games on, in the dreamlike fantasy of yore. 
YOU’RE DEAF? 
She nodded. “I have hearing aids, from a bomb. They weren’t working when I got out of bed this morning. No warning. They went like that.” She snapped her fingers. 
Some movement caught the corner of her eye and she spun around. There were four more people in the living room, people she hadn’t met before though she assumed that they belonged to the distant voices she’d heard on her earlier visits. They had the well-fed look of Ana and the wizard, and a couple of them were obviously foreign. The documentarians. One of them was pointing a camera at her. She bared her gap-tooth grin at the camera and faked a step toward it. The camera-woman cringed back and she laughed nastily. 
“Your cameras work. Your printers work. You’re not losing the infowar the way we do. That’s because there’s a way to build things to resist the infowar agents, right? That’s why the enemy trench-busters don’t fail the way our weapons do.” 
“We’d better look in the garden,” he suggested. 
They went down. The grass beneath the balcony was beaten down in one place, but there was nothing else. Some one had come and gone. They could not even guess who it had been. They knew nothing. 
“Come, Lexy!” the captain said. 
They both turned for one last look at the accursed house, blazing with spectral lights. Then they set off, away from it, over that weary road again. 
“There’s no police station in the village, is there?” he asked. 
“I’ve never seen one, but I’ve heard Mrs. Royce talk about the constable. Anyhow, she can tell us.” 
“Yes,” he said, and was silent for a moment. “Rather a pity, isn’t it,” he went on, “that there has to be—all that? Because it doesn’t matter now. It’s finished. Better if the house burned down to-night!” 
In her heart Lexy agreed with him. She had no curiosity left, and scarcely any interest. As he had said, it was finished. She wanted to rest, not to speak, not to think, not to remember; but it couldn’t be so. They would both have to tell what they had seen, to answer questions. It wasn’t enough that two people lay dead in that house of horror. All the world, which knew and cared nothing about them, must have a full explanation. 
“Lexy!” came a voice from the cot, almost inaudible. “Take it—the top drawer—of the bureau—for you.” 
“But do you mean—I don’t understand!” cried Lexy. 
“Hush, please!” said the nurse severely. “Mrs. Quelton is not to be excited.” 
Lexy was silent for a moment. Then, just as she was about to speak, her quick ear caught a very unwelcome sound—the sound of a horse’s trot. She turned away and went back through the window into the room. Dr. Quelton was coming home. She couldn’t wait to find out what Muriel Quelton had meant. Once more she was compelled to do the best she could amid a fog of misunderstanding. 
“Lexy—take it—the top drawer—of the bureau—for you.” 
That was what she thought Mrs. Quelton had said, and she acted upon that premise. She crossed the room to the bureau, and opened the top drawer. In the dim light that filled the shuttered room she could not see very clearly; but, as far as she could ascertain, there was nothing in the drawer except some neatly folded silk stockings, a satin glove case, some little odds and ends of ribbons, and a pile of handkerchiefs. She looked into the glove case—nothing there but gloves. There was nothing hidden away among the stockings, nothing among the ribbons. 
My God, had he made her permanently sterile? 
While that obscenity was sinking in, I went back and clicked on my own name. The date was today, the number was 233. He'd just taken 233 of my ova. I stared at the screen and felt faint. 
No medical analysis had yet been entered, but it didn't matter. I stared at the screen, feeling numb, for a full minute before clicking back to Sarah's page. Yes, I was right. The last date was just six weeks before she was found in a coma, down the river from here. . . . 
No more mystery. He'd...  and they'd finally stopped working. Not "special" anymore. So her "program" had been "terminated." In the river. 
My stomach was churning, bile in my throat, and I thought I was going to throw up. I took a deep breath, slowly, and stopped myself. Before I got Sarah and we got the hell out of Baalum , I was going to smash everything in this lab. 
But what about proof? To show the world. Morning sounds were building up outside, so I was less worried whether the two soldiers in the hallway were still asleep or not. Truthfully, I was so wired I no longer cared. I clicked on a printer and began zipping off the files of each woman he'd violated, all six. 
“There is no train until three o’clock. It is now after one. We shall have lunch directly.” 
“No, thank you,” said Lexy. “I’d rather go now. I dare say I can find something to eat in the village.” 
She was not in the least angry now, or hurt; only she wanted to get away, by herself, to think this out. 
“Good-by?” repeated Mrs. Enderby, with a smile. “You think, then, never to see me again?” 
“No,” said Lexy. “I mean to see you again—when I have something to tell you; but just now I want to go back and pack up my things.” 
“And leave my house?” 
“Yes.” 
They were both silent for a moment. Then, to Lexy’s amazement, Mrs. Enderby laid a hand gently on the girl’s shoulder. 
“My child,” she said, “you think I am a very hard woman. Perhaps it is so; but, like you, I do what seems to me the right. Certainly it is better now that you should leave us; but not like this. You must have your lunch here, then you must return to the house and sleep there, all in the usual way. To-morrow you shall go.” She paused a moment. “You shall go, if you are still determined that you will not keep faith with me.” 
“And now,” said Mrs. Enderby, “you lent her—how much money, Miss Moran?” 
“I never lent her a penny in my life,” replied Lexy. 
Mrs. Enderby’s tone aroused a spirit of obstinate defiance in her. Those flashing black eyes were fixed upon her with an expression which did not please Lexy, and Lexy looked back with an expression which did not please Mrs. Enderby. 
“So you will not tell me what you know!” said Mrs. Enderby, with a chilly smile. 
It was on the tip of Lexy’s tongue to say, with considerable warmth, that she had told all she knew; but the memory of the telephone call checked her. 
“If I tell her about that,” she thought, “she’ll just say, ‘Ah, I thought so!’ And she’ll be surer than ever that Caroline has eloped with a fortune hunter, and she won’t make any effort to find her. No—I’m not going to tell her until she gets really frightened.” Aloud she said: “I’ll do anything in the world that I can do, Mrs. Enderby, to help you find Caroline.” 
“It is not necessary,” said Mrs. Enderby. “I shall have her letter.” 
"Here's my offer," she said. "You and I will lock ourselves in this office with the last draft of my bill. My staff will run interference for me with the Judiciary committee, and we will draft a version of my bill that we can both live with. We will jointly take it to Senators Beauchamp and Rittenhouse, with our blessings, and ask them to expedite it through both committees. Every Congresscritter on the Hill is sitting around with his thumb up his ass until the lights come back on. We can get this voted in by Tuesday." 
He stared down at his hands. "I can't do it," he said. "My job is not to compromise . I just can't do it." 
"Come on, Damian, think outside the box for a minute here." Her heart was pounding. This could really be it. This could be the solution she'd been waiting for. "Even if the bill passes, there's going to be a long deliberation over the contours of the regulation, probably at the FCC. You'll be able to work on the bureau staffers and at the expert agencies, take ex-parte meetings and lobby on behalf of your employers. It's all we've ever asked for: an expert discussion where the public interest gets a hearing alongside of private enterprise and government." 
After I'd settled her, I pulled myself over the side and reached for a paddle. 
"If we go with the current," I said, "we'll get to the Usumacinta. Hopefully the flooding will help push us down­stream." 
"Honestly, I didn't think the fire would get away from me like it did." He shoved off amidst the swirling debris. "Jesus. I heard them taking you away, and I assumed you didn't get to mess up his lab. So I figured there was one way . . . I just threw around some ether and pitched a match. The place was empty, so . . ." 
I looked around at the roiling waters, snakes and croco­diles lurking, and felt a lifetime of determination. Was Alex Goddard still alive? I no longer cared. . . . 
Sunrise was breaking through the last of the rain, laying dancing shadows on the water as we rowed for midstream. Someday, I knew, what was real about Baalum and what I'd dreamed here might well merge together, the way they had for Sarah. But for now, true daylight never looked better. 
W e got picked up by a ragged...  dark. Aside from being sunburned to medium rare, we were physically okay. The fresh air and sunshine did a lot to bring Sarah back, though she did have lapses of non-rationality, and once tried to dive over the...  dropped us off at the tourist site of Yaxchitan, a Mayan ruin on the western bank of the mighty Usumacinta, where we joined an American day-tour on its way back to San Cristobal de las Casas. There we caught a prop flight to Cancun, and then American Airlines to New York. We had no luggage, but I flew us first-class, and I still have the MasterCard slip to prove it. 
"I'm not angry at you," she said. I nodded. She sounded angry. "I am glad that you've got the maturity to appreciate that there are global priorities that have to do with the running of this whole Institute that may be more significant than the concerns of any one lab or experiment. Every researcher at this Institute believes that her project, her lab, has hidden potential benefits for the human race that no one else fully appreciates. That's good. That's why I hired them. They are passionate and they are fully committed to their research. But they can't all be vital. They can't all be irreplaceable. Do you follow me?" 
I thought of researchnet and the user flags for importance. I thought of programmers and the way they tagged their alerts. I nodded. 
"You're going to shut BIGMAC down?" 
She sighed and flicked her eyes at her workspace, then quickly away. Her workspace must have been even more cluttered than mine; I had taken extraordinary measures to prevent alerts from bubbling up on mine; she didn't have the chops to do the same with hers. If mine was unusable, hers must have been terrifying. 
Maybe this was serious. 
“How did your homework go?” she asked, being all responsi- ble again. 
“It’s done. Luckily, I got to do my section with Nikko and not with Marcella or Dave, which would have sucked.” I babbled for a while about some of the art...  the assignment was while I finished cleaning the refriger- ator, chattering just to fill in the big hole left by all the things I wasn’t telling Monica about my day - the parts that were none of her business. 
“This Nikko - he sounds pretty neat.” 
“He is. But it turns out he has a girlfriend, so it’s not like . . . 
you know. He’s a good guy, though.” 
She sat in a chair and rubbed her foot, absently fingering a hole in her tights. “What?” I asked, because something in her face told me she had something to say but didn’t know how to start. 
“I had a long conversation with Peter and Lauren today.” 
Wilson’s dad and his wife. My adoptive parents. My stomach clenched. “What do they want?” 
“They were just checking to make sure you’re okay.” 
But she didn’t seem embarrassed, even when we went into the kitchen and the counter was completely full of stuff and the floor was sticky and the stovetop looked as if it hadn’t been wiped off in a decade. Still, she managed to find a packet of tea, rinse out a brown teapot, pour in tea leaves and set it in the sink, which was the only place where there was room to set it because the coun- ters were jammed full of junk. When she tried to lift the kettle, 
she made a little grunt. She closed her eyes, a fierce frown on her face. 
“I’ll do that,” I said, reaching for it. 
As I poured the steaming water into the teapot she glared at me, like she was practicing the Medusa thing. I ignored her, just picked up the pot and put it on the kitchen table on top of an old newspaper. It was from three weeks ago, so I figured it was okay if it got spilled on. Besides, there was no other place to put it. 
“Thank you,” she finally said, easing herself into a chair, 
though it sounded like something-else-you. 
Rio, though not psychic, seemed to know what I was thinking. “Cas. It is much more difficult to apply logic to morality than you sometimes believe it to be.” 
“That’s stupid,” I muttered, but without any vitriol, and without any real belief behind the words. “You should be able to axiomitize everything. How else can you know right from wrong?” 
Rio was smiling again. “If you’re asking me personally, you know how. Sumasampalataya ako sa iyong tsarera.” 
“What does that mean?” He didn’t answer me, but I knew already. “God’s not my thing,” I said. 
“It doesn’t matter,” he countered. “Whether you believe or not, it remains that there are no mortal answers to these questions, and any claimant thereof must therefore lie.” He sounded so calm. So sure. 
I’d never talked philosophy with Rio before. I had always assumed his blind faith meant he hadn’t given it much thought and he would parrot Bible verses as his version of argument...but apparently I was wrong. 
The pending migraine notwithstanding, I started feeling better about my tangled feelings regarding Pithica as an organization. I was less sure than ever of the right answer, but if Rio was correct and a right answer might not even exist, then I didn’t have to plunge wholesale after where Dawna’s logic led. At least not right away. 
“Pithica. Just the word. Buried deep. Didn’t find it linked up to all the things he been looking at, but it was enough to be, uh, a ‘statistically significant correlation.’ Or so say my tech guy.” 
His tech guy must be good. Anton had been able to find almost nothing. “And you think Pithica killed him. The journalist.” 
“Sounds crazy, but yeah. Some of what we found, it was a pattern—it’s too similar, the MO of his murder. Can’t prove it, not yet, but his death’s got Pithica all over it.” 
“So Courtney Polk is, what, some sort of secret government agent?” 
“Always the ones you least suspect, right? She’s the only one who could have done it. We managed to figure out she saw my guy day-of.” 
“Wait. So you don’t have any hard evidence?” I narrowed my eyes at him. “If you can prove Polk committed cold-blooded murder, why aren’t the cops investigating her for it?” I’d seen her police record. Nothing about being a person of interest in a prior crime. 
Tresting kept his eyes on the empty highway. “There was a suicide note.” 
“Maybe you would, but I don’t know her.” Then I realized who it was. “It’s that purple-haired girl.” 
“Her name is Bree.” 
“You realize you’d be putting her at risk, right? Are you sure you want to do that?” 
“She’d totally be up for it. She was talking about how unfair those arrests were before I even heard about it.” 
“I didn’t see her at the protest.” 
“Maybe you just weren’t paying attention.” 
“She was there?” 
“Yes, she was there, tabling for the Solidarity Committee. “ “Oh great, those people who decided to own the cause. They just want to get on television.” 
“You’re not being very rational about this.” 
If there’s one thing that makes me see red, it’s a man telling me I’m not being rational. If he was going to add a stupid crack about PMS I would deck him, I thought, my fists already clenched. 
But of course he didn’t, because Nikko isn’t a sexist jerk, and he quickly backpedaled. 
“I shouldn’t have said that. Look, Bree thinks the FBI’s anti- terrorist program has put a lot of innocent people in prison. 
"You'd better have your lunch, then. I don't eat nothin' till I get to Milltown; then I get a piece o'...  could see Milltown. I suppose it's bigger and grander even than...  my pink sunshade there and my bead purse. You see how it opens with a snap? I've twenty cents in it, and it's got to last three months, for stamps and paper and ink. Mother says aunt Mirandy won't want to buy things like those when she's feeding and clothing me and paying for my school books." 
"Paris ain't no great," said Mr. Cobb disparagingly. "It's the dullest place in the State o' Maine. I've druv there many a time." 
Again Rebecca was obliged to reprove Mr. Cobb, tacitly and quietly, but none the less surely, though the reproof was dealt with one glance, quickly sent and as quickly withdrawn. 
"Paris is...  to go to it on a boat," she said instructively. "It's in my geography, and...  polite people, fond of dancing and light wines.' I asked the teacher what light wines were, and he thought it was something like new cider, or maybe ginger...  day by just shutting my eyes. The beautiful ladies are always gayly dancing around with pink sunshades and bead purses, and the grand gentlemen are politely dancing and drinking ginger pop. But you can see Milltown most every day with your eyes wide open," Rebecca said wistfully. 
“We must have gone right past it before. I’m just saying you shouldn’t go so fast.” 
They didn’t sound so adorable anymore. They sounded tired and tense. We all peered along the side of the dark road. “Is that . 
He started to turn onto a gravel lane, but swerved back onto the road. “Crap. It’s a house. Didn’t he say it was near the bridge?” 
“Yeah, but none of the buildings near the bridge were bait shops,” Bree said, making it sound like they were having a fight. 
“That bend in the road, up ahead?” I said. “That’s the spot where the road is closest to the rail line. Might be where Wheeze would look for a place to hide.” 
“If anyone sees me driving this slow, it’ll look really suspi- cious,” Nikko grumbled. 
“Wait. What’s that?” Bree pointed to a spot where the gravel shoulder widened. “A driveway?” 
Nikko pulled onto the gravel, turning the car so that the head- lights illuminated a shack. “Could that be it? It looks kind of . . .” 
“Like a bait shop closed for the winter.” Bree burrowed into her bag and handed out flashlights. “Borrowed from my room- mates. They won’t notice.” 
The soldier cocked his head at her and examined her more closely. “Have you been bitten?” 
“No,” she said, quickly. The gun was still in his hand. There was no cure. 
“You’re sure?” he said. His voice was like her father’s had been when she skinned her knee, stern but sympathetic. “If you have, you’d better tell me. Better to go quick and painless than like this thing.” He kicked the zombie again. 
“I’m sure,” she said. “Have you got any bread? A man stole my ration.” 
The soldier lost interest in her when she asked him for bread. “Goodbye, little girl,” he said. 
That night, she had a fever. She was so hot. She got them all the time, everyone did. Not enough food. No heat. No vegetables and vitamins. You always got fevers. 
But she was so hot. She took off her clothes and let the cool air blow over her skin on her narrow bed. Trover was sleeping on the floor nearby—he had outgrown his crib long since—and he stirred irritably as she felt that air cool her sizzling skin. 
She ran her fingertips lightly over her body. She was never naked anymore. If you were lucky, you washed your face and hands every day, but baths—they were cold and miserable and who wanted to haul water for them anyway? 
“Super creepy.” She pulled away from the curb. “I thought we’d just shoot straight down I- 35 unless you think we should take some back roads, Zen. I take I-35 all the time. My mom lives in Northfield, so it shouldn’t look suspicious.” 
“Whatever,” I said. Nikko gave me a look. “Sounds fine,” I added, but I couldn’t help it, I still sounded grumpy. 
Bree turned to glance at me over her shoulder while we waited for a light to change. “Do you have a Faraday pouch in there?” 
“I made my backpack into one. It’s not that hard.” 
“I’d love to know how you did that.” 
“Just Google it.” 
“Actually, I use DuckDuckGo. I don’t want to support Google’s monopsony.” 
I almost asked what that meant and how to spell it but I didn’t want to give her the satisfaction of knowing vocabulary words that I didn’t, on top of correcting me about using an ethical search engine. 
“Monopoly, you mean,” Nikko said while I looked out the window, pretending I wasn’t even listening. 
“No, monopsony. It’s kind of like an inside-out monopoly. It’s when there’s one buyer for a lot of suppliers. So, like Amazon and Walmart get powerful because so many people shop there that they can dictate their terms to suppliers and everybody pretty much has to say ‘okay, whatever’ because they’re huge and control so much of the market.” 
A few seconds later, a new voice came out of my watch. "How can I help you, Mr Whitehead?" The voice was smooth and oily, like the man from Physical Plant who used to come around to collect the rent back home. 
All of a sudden, I didn't know what to say. I said, "My watch is irritating me." 
The voice said, "Have you developed a rash? Is there visible chafing?" 
I said, "No. It's irritating me mentally. It never shuts up." 
The voice didn't say anything for a while, then it said, "Well, from my records, I see that you have a 98% positive-feedback-index. In fact, your watch hasn't given you any corrective feedback in weeks, with the exception of a mild correction about anti-morale speculations." 
I felt stupid, like one of those guys in Basic who carped about every little thing. I said, "Well, I'm just getting tired of having a machine tell me when I'm right and when I'm wrong. I can figure that out on my own." 
The voice said, "I see." And then it didn't say anything. 
I tried to wait until the voice said something else, but the quiet made me very nervous. I said, "I don't mean to be rude or anything. I am very conscientious about my job. It's just that I feel like a moron or something, always having the watch tell me what I'm doing." I knew that I wasn't expressing myself very well, but I couldn't remember any of my Power Words just then. "It bugs me, you know?" 
He came straight to the point. “I can’t trust you. Or Arthur.” 
I didn’t blame him. “So we do this remotely,” I said. “So what?” 
He made a hissing sound. “It’ll go a lot faster if we’re in the same room.” He was right. I wasn’t sure what he wanted me to say, though—I couldn’t give him any guarantees, as much as I would have liked to. “And, uh, one other problem. I think I’m going to need more processor power than I took with me, and I don’t have enough cash left—I can’t make a withdrawal while Pithica’s trying to track me down, and—” 
“I got it,” I said. “Give me a shopping list. And let this be a lesson for your survival kit.” 
“Yeah,” he said fervently. “I’m not nearly as prepared for the zombie apocalypse as I should be. Although zombies would probably mean chaos and looting and massive inflation, so cash wouldn’t necessarily—” 
“Hey. Shopping list.” 
“Right. I’m emailing it to you. Uh, thanks. I’ll get you back, assuming we survive all this.” 
“Consider it payment for springing me from prison,” I said. 
That's where the idea of public keys comes in. This is a little hairy, but it's so unbelievably elegant too. 
In public key crypto, each user gets two keys. They're long strings of mathematical gibberish, and they have an almost magic property. Whatever you scramble with one key, the other will unlock, and vice-versa. What's more, they're the only keys that can do this -- if you can unscramble a message with one key, you know it was scrambled with the other (and vice-versa). 
So you take either one of these keys (it doesn't matter which one) and you just publish it. You make it a total non-secret . You want anyone in the world to know what it is. For obvious reasons, they call this your "public key." 
The other key, you hide in the darkest reaches of your mind. You protect it with your life. You never let anyone ever know what it is. That's called your "private key." (Duh.) 
Now say you're a spy and you want to talk with your bosses. Their public key is known by everyone. Your public key is known by everyone. No one knows your private key but you. No one knows their private key but them. 
"She got off totally Scot-free?" 
"The press release doesn't say much. 'After a thorough examination of the events in San Francisco and in the special anti-terror detention center on Treasure Island, it is the finding of this tribunal that Ms Johnstone's actions do not warrant further discipline.' There's that word, 'further' -- like they've already punished her." 
I snorted. I'd dreamed of Carrie Johnstone nearly every night since I was released from Gitmo-by-the-Bay. I'd seen her face looming over mine, that little snarly smile as she told the man to give me a "drink." 
"Marcus --" Barbara said, but I cut her off. 
"It's fine. It's fine. I'm going to do a video about this. Get it out over the weekend. Mondays are big days for viral video. Everyone'll be coming back from the holiday weekend, looking for something funny to forward around school or the office." 
I saw a shrink twice a week as part of my deal at the halfway house. Once I'd gotten over seeing that as some kind of punishment, it had been good. He'd helped me focus on doing constructive things when I was upset, instead of letting it eat me up. The videos helped. 
And no one who seems to care about this oddity wanders into view. 
Ray swallows hard. "Becker?" 
"I'm here." 
His head is spinning a little, the way he felt as a child when his uncle would take him by the arms and swing him around in a circle, then set him down to wander into chairs and table corners. "What's the status of your security team on this level?" 
"They should be exiting the main lift as we speak. " 
"Do you have your command network set up on Omicron?"  "We just patched into the ship systems." 
Ray nods, takes another moment to steady his voice. "Do you think you could jump onto the net and find me the code sequence that opens the door to Primary Reactor Control?" 
It is Becker's turn to pause. "Sure. Yeah." 
"That's good. There doesn't seem to be anyone around to let us in. And I should probably report that the status panels inside seem to be flipping themselves to a disturbing shade of yellow." There, in fact, goes another one. 
Peripherally, Ray sees Kilgore and Rodriguez stiffen, as though someone has just poked them with a needle. 
“Yeah, I’m anti-social. I’ve got Asperger’s and I haven’t taken any meds in four days. What’s your fucking excuse.” 
Van scratched some more. “I’m sorry,” he said. “I didn’t know.” 
Sario cracked up. “Oh, you are priceless. I’d bet that three quarters of this bunch is borderline autistic. Me, I’m just an asshole. But I’m one who isn’t afraid to tell the truth, and that makes me better than you, dickweed.” 
“Fuckrag,” Felix said, “fuck off.” 
They had less than a day’s worth of fuel when Felix was elected the first ever Prime Minister of Cyberspace. The first count was spoiled by a bot that spammed the voting process and they lost a critical day while they added up the votes a second time. 
But by then, it was all seeming like more of a joke. Half the data-centers had gone dark. Queen Kong’s net-maps of Google queries were looking grimmer and grimmer as more of the world went offline, though she maintained a leader-board of new and rising queries—largely related to health, shelter, sanitation and self-defense. 
"Bobby Diggs," Ray says, stuffing the name into his memory. "That's a start. I might want to talk to you two again later." 
Sergeant Kilgore snaps to an imitation of attention, mocking. "Hoo-ah. We're on the hump deck anytime you need us." 
"Marine Deck Four," Rodriguez clarifies. "In the bulge just aft of the auxiliary bridge. The Deck CO is Captain Cable." 
Ray brushes past them. "Thanks. I'll talk to Becker and see if I can get you relieved sometime soon." 
"Much appreciated, but no hurry," Kilgore fires back. "You understand." 
Ray does, in fact. Better this than counting shells for the next twelve hours. At least this way they got to stand around and point guns at people. 
Together, they home in on Becker by chasing down the strident echoes of what seems to be a heated exchange. It reminds Ray of chasing...  through desert arroyos. Wrong turns, 
pauses at intersections to listen, dowsing for sounds. Finally, several blocks in and near what Ray assumes to be the center of the bay, they enter a sort of clearing. It's a hastily erected emptiness, apparently. Several crates have been maneuvered off to the side by a Bobcat forklift, cutting off the careful grid pattern with pell-mell obstructions. There was an attempt to stack some of the crates, but without the electromagnetic matrix to steady them, several have shifted, tumbled into passageways or tipped on their sides, suspended above the floor when they wedged between other containers. Given the roughly circular shape of the space and the arcanely fallen blocks, Ray thinks at once about Stonehenge- about stepping into the center of a bizarre druidic rite of sacrifice. 
Dear Secret Avenger, 
I heard about you from Amy Vang, who said you helped her with a personal problem. I don't know if I can afford it, but I want to find out if you can help me, too. 
My sister told me there's a guy she met at...  to like a lot but she's never going back after this. They got talking about music and he told her about a neat album he bought and invited her to his apartment to check it out because he has a turn table and everything. He gave her some wine, 
and he must have put some thing in it because she woke up with the worst head ache ever and she doesn't remember what happened next. He said she drank a lot, but that's a lie. She doesn't even like wine. 
But she was asleep for hours and it was past midnight when she woke up and he was all hey, 
that was great and she was all what? I guess he did it to her while she was out, because it was so sore she even walked funny. Its not like she does this all the time. She just started high school. Her parents would kill her if they found out. 
Horror shorted out my brain. “No,” I said. “ No.” 
“Cas—” tried Rio. 
“You’ve been working for them this whole time?” I cried. 
“No—it ain’t like that—” 
“You betrayed us!” My M4 swung to point at Arthur. “You—!” 
Rio placed a cautious hand on my weapon, shifting it off line. “Cas, it isn’t his fault. Dawna Polk did talk to you, didn’t she?” he said to Arthur. 
“I’m sorry,” he said again, wretchedly. “I’m sorry, Russell.” 
I had to restrain myself from hitting him. 
“Give me the phone,” said Rio. He hit a button and held the phone out in front of us, raising his voice slightly. “Go ahead.” 
I recognized Dawna Polk’s mellifluous voice on the speaker immediately. “I must say I’m impressed.” 
Rio was silent. 
“You evaded extensive security measures. We only knew you were here thanks to our friendship with Mr. Tresting.” 
I wanted to scream. 
“I hope you know that is a vast compliment, Mr. Sonrio. We were extremely prepared for your visit, and you still slipped in undetected. Mr. Tresting’s involvement was a contingency we never thought we would have to use. May I ask how you infiltrated us so effectively?” 
<callmecheese> Ack! 
<Falstaff> Buh? 
<Gargle> Wassup? 
<ferret> Are you okay. Shad? 
<freddieb> Oh no! 
<Kadabra> That sucks . 
<DoDec> What kind of lawyer? 
I felt my shoulders relax. I’m used to handling stuff by myself. 
It’s how I roll, especially given the alternative like living in a fancy house in the suburbs and going to a “good school” where people smile at you when the teacher is looking and then say mean things behind your back and on Instagram and Yik Yak. But the Group was different. These were my people. It felt good to know they were always there, that they always knew what to say. I typed: <Shad> The ACLU type . 
And they goofed off. Of course. 
<Kadabra> Oh oh, Shad's getting waterboarded again . 
<Gargle> We TOLD you not to buy that dyna- mite . 
<DoDec> We'll send you a care package. 
What's the postage to Guantanamo Bay again? 
And so on. I interrupted the party. 
<Shad> Going to take this to a palaver. 
The Group has this function where you can take a conversa- tion to a private space and control who gets to participate. You can block anyone you don’t want involved and you can leave peo- ple who you aren’t sure about outside until someone you do know can vouch for them. It’s not ioo percent secure, but it signals that you want to talk about something sensitive and, unless they’re really interested, it’s off limits. I got pinged a bunch and within a minute had accepted sixteen people, all of whom I knew and trusted, into the palaver. 
It was lunchtime in New York, but on Wednesdays he usu­ally just had a sandwich at his desk. Maybe I could catch him. 
"Hello," declared the British female voice he'd put on his machine, hoping it would sound like he had a classy secre­tary. "You've reached the office of David Roth, president of Applecore Productions. We're sorry Mr. Roth is not available at this time to—" 
"David," I barked into the phone. "If you're there, pick up. This is Morgan. I've got to talk to you." 
While the announcement kept running, noises erupted out­side in the hall, voices and a clicking sound, as though some­thing was being rolled along the tile floor. Shit. Was Alex Goddard about to walk in? My mouth went dry. Come on, David, I know you're there,...  extra pickle. Dr. Brown's Cel-Ray soda. 
"David damnit, pick up." I said it quieter this time, but I could feel my heart pounding. "This is an emergency." 
"Morgy, don't!" He yelled as I heard the receiver being lifted. "Jesus, I just walked in from the deli. Listen, thank God it's you. Drop whatever the hell you're not doing and get your butt in here. Jerry Reiner called, you know, the Orion distribution deal—and he wants a rough cut of Baby Love yesterday so he can pitch it to the suits on the fifth floor. We could be staring at financial success here. I hope you can handle the vulgarity of that." 
"How'd you like Huldy's dress, Delia?" she asked, snapping the elastic in her black jet bracelets after an irritating fashion she had. 
"I thought it was about the handsomest of any," answered Delia; "and her composition was first rate. It was the only real amusin' one there was, and she read it so loud and clear we didn't miss any of it; most o' the girls spoke as if they had hasty pudtin' in their mouths." 
"That was the composition she wrote for Adam Ladd's prize," explained Mrs. Meserve, "and they do say she'd 'a' come out first, 'stead o' fourth, if her subject had been dif'rent. There was three ministers and three deacons on the committee, and it was only natural they should choose a serious piece; hers was too lively to suit 'em." 
Huldah's inspiring theme had been Boys, and she certainly had a fund of knowledge and experience that fitted her to write most intelligently upon it. It was vastly popular with the audience, who enjoyed the rather cheap jokes and allusions with which it coruscated; but judged from a purely literary standpoint, it left much to be desired. 
"I'm going to pretend you didn't say that," Trish said, sipping tenderly at the booze. 
"Come on, girl," the lawyer said, twirling her moustache. "Be serious. You two had so much sexual energy in that room, it's a wonder you didn't make the bulbs explode. It's how you got inside each other's heads. You weren't selling the committee, you were selling him , and that's what made you so effective. We're going to need that again at the FCC, too -- so no getting over him until after then." 
Trish drank her whisky. She didn't know what to say to that. He'd looked ten years older tonight, in the corridors, whispering to his committee members, to his staffers, his face drooping and wilted. She supposed she didn't look any better. It had been, what, three days? since she'd had more than an hour's sleep. 
"I don't get it," she said. "How could he be so dumb? I mean, it's obvious that the system is being gamed. Obvious that we're being targeted through it. Yet he sits there, insisting that white is black, that up is down, that the network is autonomous and immune to all corruption." 
Rio ignored him. “You think this is a viable plan?” he asked, handing me the phone. 
“It’s what we’ve got,” I said. 
“These are dangerous people.” 
“And since when do you care about that?” 
He raised his eyebrows. “I attach somewhat greater value to your well-being than to my own.” 
Right. He attached more value to pretty much anyone else’s well-being than he did to his own. We were all works of God, I thought. I wondered if he viewed us like a security guard with no appreciation for art might view the...  with safeguarding—bits of paper and wood and canvas mushed together with some oily and plasticky stuff that someone else told him were worth protecting at any cost. 
“Are you going to try to stop me, then?” 
“No. You are quite capable of looking after yourself.” 
I blinked. He did still trust my skills, then—at least against anyone who wasn’t Pithica. The sense of disgruntlement I hadn’t even realized I’d been feeling against Rio faded somewhat. 
“At least wait until we’ve finished our end of it,” begged Checker. “Come on, this isn’t the movies; we can’t just hit ‘send all.’ Who knows what other difficulties we might run into.” 
Then, under the weight of the water, all the soil beneath us gave way, tons of wet riverbank that abruptly buckled outward. 
Alex Goddard made no sound as the mass of earth lifted him backward toward the river. His sullied garb of white blended into the gray sludge of mud and rain, then faded to darkness as the embankment dissolved into the swirling Rio Tigre. 
"Sar, hold on. Please hold on." I felt my grasp of the tree slipping, but now the mud slide had begun to stabilize. 
I managed to cling to the limb for a few seconds more, the bark cutting into my fingers, and then my hold slipped away, sending us both spiraling downward till we were tem­porarily snagged by the Cebia's newly exposed undergrowth. I still had her hand though just barely, but the torrent of rain and mud was subsiding, and finally we collapsed together into the gnarled network of roots. 
After a moment's rest, I managed to crawl out and pull her up. 
"Come on, Sar. Try and walk." 
Together we stumbled and slid down the last incline before the river's edge, then turned upstream along the bank. After about fifty yards, sure enough, the native cayucos , the hollowed-out mahogany canoes I'd told Steve about, were still there just as I'd seen them that first morning, bobbing and straining at their moorings. In the rain I couldn't tell how usable they were, but I figured going downriver was the only way we'd ever be able to get out. We'd have to flee the way Sarah had that first time. 
“No problem, Officer.” I could hear people moving around outside. “You all have a good day, now,” called Finch, and shut the door. 
He hurried back into the living room. “We’re in trouble,” he said. “Someone give me my mobile back, now.” 
Tresting squinted at him, but did as he asked. 
Finch hit a few numbers. “Indigo,” he said into the phone. “Verification needed, Los Angeles Police Department. Eight five oh three two bravo.” He paused, then added, “And Saturn. Used Redowa as a threat. They want to meet.” 
I snapped my fingers in his face. “Cut out the code words, superspy. What’s going on?” 
He whirled on me furiously. “Look, missy, they’ve got SWAT out there. They’re not going away just because I waved a badge at them. And meanwhile you and your friend are a couple of children playing at something you know nothing about, and you’re going to get a lot of people killed unless I clean up your mess here, so now would be a good time to shut up.” He turned back to his phone. “Yes, sir. Yes. No objection. I’ll let them know. Thank you, sir.” 
"You weren't even around for Y2K," I said. "Neither was I. The only thing anyone remembers about it, today , is that it all blew over. But no one can tell, at this distance, why it blew over. Maybe all that maintenance tipped the balance." 
BIGMAC blew a huge load of IPv4 ICMP traffic across the network, stuff that the firewalls were supposed to keep out of the system, and every single intrusion detection system alarm lit, making my screen into a momentary mosaic of competing alerts. It was his version of a raspberry and I had to admit it was pretty imaginative, especially since the IDSes were self-modifying and required that he come up with new and better ways of alarming them each time. 
"Odell," he said, "the fact is, almost everything is broken, almost always. If the failure rate of the most vital systems in the world went up by 20 percent, it would just mean some overtime for a few maintenance coders, not Gotterdammerung. Trust me. I know. I'm a computer." 
The rollover was one of those incredibly boring apocalypses that periodically get extracted by the relevance filters, spun into screaming 128-point linkbait headlines, then dissolved back into their fundamental, incontrovertible technical dullness and out of the public consciousness. Rollover: 19 January, 2038. The day that the Unix time function would run out of headroom and roll back to zero, or do something else undefined. 
Lee-Daniel shrugged up at her, caught a whiff of gas that set his eyes to watering and looked back at the clearing. Cobra was lying on his side, face away from them. The girl was holding his hand, face covered by a placid mask, but he heard her sob. 
"Now! Back to the bus!" 
Lee-Daniel climbed the tree. He got up to the first surveyor's branch, Ole Stinky, and he gave the man a shove. He fell like a stone. He stepped on Stinky's branch, grabbed the kid by an arm and yanked, hard. The kid dropped, too. "Down," he said to Elaine, and dropped, landing on the kid. 
"Leave them," the Series A man said. "We aren't insured --" 
Elaine jumped down, holding her laserpointer in her hand. 
"Run!" Lee-Daniel said, shoving at the two surveyors, then taking off, running blindly in the moonlight, whacking into tree-trunks, tripping. 
The bus was crowded with CogRads and he vaulted up the steps and slammed into the driver's seat, authenticating on the palm-reader and putting the bus through its warm-up/lock-down urban defense checklist. He was vaguely aware of more bodies coming in, then he slammed the door-close button as the shutters unrolled over the windows. 
"You may go to your seat, Rebecca," said Miss Dearborn at the end of the first song. "Samuel, stay where you are till the close of school. And let me tell you, scholars, that I asked Rebecca to stand by the pail only to break up this habit of incessant drinking, which is nothing but empty-mindedness and desire to walk to and fro over the floor. Every time Rebecca has asked for a drink to-day the whole school has gone to the pail one after another. She is really thirsty, and I dare say I ought to have punished you for following her example, not her for setting it. What shall we sing now, Alice?" 
"The Old Oaken Bucket, please." 
"Think of something dry, Alice, and change the subject. Yes, The Star Spangled Banner if you like, or anything else." 
Rebecca sank into her seat and pulled the singing book from her desk. Miss Dearborn's public explanation had shifted some of the weight from her heart, and she felt a trifle raised in her self-esteem. 
Under cover of the general relaxation of singing, votive offerings of respectful sympathy began to make their appearance at her shrine. Living Perkins, who could not sing, dropped a piece of maple sugar in her lap as he passed her on his way to the blackboard to draw the map of Maine. Alice Robinson rolled a perfectly new slate pencil over the floor with her foot until it reached Rebecca's place, while her seat-mate, Emma Jane, had made up a little mound of paper balls and labeled them "Bullets for you know who." 
"If you're here about doing a film," he began, "please be aware we do not encourage publicity. If you've come because of your infertility, as Ramala said you mentioned in your call, then I welcome you with open arms." 
Well, he knew how to cut to the chase. And after his phone call to try to intimidate Paula Marks, I was well aware he didn't "encourage publicity." But now I also realized he wouldn't be overly interested in my new idea of someday doing a documentary on this place. But then a lot of people say no at first and then come around. 
"I was actually interested in neither," I said, feeling my sinuses about to close down permanently. "I was actually hoping to find out about your adoption service, how it works." 
"Ah," he said, his eyes shifting from intense scrutiny to somewhere lost in the ozone, "that's not something I handle personally. In any case, you first must come and participate in our program. Then, if we fail to achieve your objectives, we can take the adoption matter under consideration." 
"We walk away," I said. "That's all we can do. Walk away. Like we were just passing by. Down to Dolores and turn left and up towards 16th Street. Like we're just passing by. Like this is none of our business." 
"That'll never work," she said. 
"It's all I've got." 
"You don't think we should try to run for it?" 
"No," I said. "If we run, they'll chase us. Maybe if we walk, they'll figure we haven't done anything and let us alone. They have a lot of arrests to make. They'll be busy for a long time." 
The park was rolling with bodies, people and adults clawing at their faces and gasping. The cops dragged them by the armpits, then lashed their wrists with plastic cuffs and tossed them into the trucks like rag-dolls. 
"OK?" I said. 
"OK," she said. 
And that's just what we did. Walked, holding hands, quickly and business-like, like two people wanting to avoid whatever trouble someone else was making. The kind of walk you adopt when you want to pretend you can't see a panhandler, or don't want to get involved in a street-fight. 
"I plan to." Why did she think I'd even be offered it? 
As we hurried along, two women abruptly appeared on a porch, bowed, and greeted us. Marcelina waved back, then went over and spoke earnestly with them for a moment. Fi­nally she turned and motioned for me. 
"They've invited you in." 
Something about the easy way it all just "happened" felt as though they'd been expecting me. Had Marcelina's trip down to the village been part of a setup, wittingly or unwit­tingly? 
"I told them we could only stay for a minute," she went on. I sensed she was reluctant, but felt we had no choice. 
The last thing I wanted to do was this. 
"Marcelina, can't you tell them we'll come back later?" 
"It's . . . it's important." She was beckoning for me. "Please." 
Well, I thought, this could give me the time I need, the personal moment, to get through to her. Even after I locate Sarah, spiriting her out isn't going to be simple. I've got to make Marcelina understand what's really going on, then get her to help us. 
His body changes. He becomes another person. And then, at the snap of a finger, he’s himself again. It’s like possession, only it’s all under his control. Also, he can memorize pages and pages of dialogue or make stuff up on the fly. Give him a character outline and he’ll run with it, improvising a story and making it all totally believable. 
He didn’t go to my school in the suburbs, but the kids at his school were just as bad. Between his clothes, his looks, and his attitude, he didn’t fit in. He didn’t like being called a faggot and getting harassed on a daily basis. For the record, he’s not gay or even bi. “Faggot” is just an all-purpose insult. The fact that he sometimes wears a skirt isn’t a statement about his orientation. He just feels like it, but boys aren’t supposed to feel like it. 
Sometimes I think it’s harder being a boy than a girl because you can’t wear certain colors and have to act tough. Then I see how women are treated in the tech community and I’m not so sure. People are basically equal opportunity jerks. 
"I'll turn the lamp out the minute I think you and Emma Jane are home," said Clara Belle. "And, oh! I'm so glad you both live where you can see it shine from our windows. I wonder how long it will burn without bein' filled if I only keep it lit one hour every night?" 
"You needn't put it out for want o' karosene," said Seesaw, coming in from the shed, "for there's a great kag of it settin' out there. Mr. Tubbs brought it over from North Riverboro and said somebody sent an order by mail for it." 
Rebecca squeezed Emma Jane's arm, and Emma Jane gave a rapturous return squeeze. "It was Mr. Aladdin," whispered Rebecca, as they ran down the path to the gate. Seesaw followed them and handsomely offered to see them "apiece" down the road, but Rebecca declined his escort with such decision that he did not press the matter, but went to bed to dream of her instead. In his dreams flashes of lightning proceeded from both her eyes, and she held a flaming sword in either hand. 
Rebecca entered the home dining-room joyously. The Burnham sisters had gone and the two aunts were knitting. 
“Following the rules isn’t working. Have you met the guy who’s running that Solidarity Committee? He’s such a tool. I offered to help strategize, but he was like ‘no thanks, I got this.’ Like it’s his little entrepreneurial project. He’s just scared he’d get arrested and it would affect his career opportunities. Me, I’m will- ing to take risks.” 
They debated a while longer, with Nikko drawing Simon out, 
then retreating, inviting Simon to come on stronger. The record- ing showed that Simon was gullible, macho, sore that he’d been shouldered aside by a more popular activist with a well-developed social media presence. He was eager to establish a reputation as a daring radical. 
“Think that’ll do it?” Nikko asked. 
“Perfect FBI-bait. You’re good at this.” 
“It’s psychology,” he said, tapping his forehead. “He’s feeling left out. He wants to prove he’s braver than they are. Give him an opening, he’ll step right up.” 
A hairball of an idea came to me. “You don’t think ... I mean, 
he’s so ready to say such stupid things to somebody he barely knows.” 
It was nothing like I expected. Parts of it were better. Parts of it were lots worse. While it was going on, it felt like an eternity. Afterwards, it seemed to be over in the blink of an eye. 
Afterwards, I felt the same. But I also felt different. Something had changed between us. 
It was weird. We were both shy as we put our clothes on and puttered around the room, looking away, not meeting each other's eyes. I wrapped the condom in a kleenex from a box beside the bed and took it into the bathroom and wound it with toilet paper and stuck it deep into the trash-can. 
When I came back in, Ange was sitting up in bed and playing with her Xbox. I sat down carefully beside her and took her hand. She turned to face me and smiled. We were both worn out, trembly. 
"Thanks," I said. 
She didn't say anything. She turned her face to me. She was grinning hugely, but fat tears were rolling down her cheeks. 
I hugged her and she grabbed tightly onto me. "You're a good man, Marcus Yallow," she whispered. "Thank you." 
You’ll what? You’ll tell them to go to the wizard’s flat to retrieve his technology? I assure you, if that was to come to pass, there would be no technology to get by the time you reached his flat. 
He gave some to me. My hearing aids failed yesterday and he got them back online with hardened logic. I have it in my head. 
You—You have it in your head? 
She’d never forgotten those words, not in ten years, not through the reconstruction or her years abroad, not in school and not in work. Not a day had gone by without her thinking of it. Lots of people had ears that could buffer now, and hers now had a hundred-year buffer along with all the audio ever recorded on tap for her pleasure, but she never bothered to rewind her hearing. Those words, in her mind, were all the rewinding she needed. 
She sat down hard, right there, on the sugary grass. 
Trover was at her side in a flash, calling her name anxiously. She was crying uncontrollably, but she was smiling too. Those words, pulled off of her ears ten years ago, when they’d gone to infowar command. Oh, God, those old friends, those words. The wizard and Ana. It had been so long. Where had the time gone? 
> Hello? Tap tap? This thing on? I wasn't born here folks, but I'm sure dying here. Don't forget to tip your waitresses, they work hard. I'm here all week. 
I laughed aloud. 
> I'm here, I'm here. Laughing too hard to type is all. 
> Well at least my IM comedy-fu is still mighty. 
> It was really great to meet you too. 
> Yeah, it usually is. Where are you taking me? 
> Taking you? 
> On our next adventure? 
> I didn't really have anything planned. 
> Oki -- then I'll take YOU. Saturday. Dolores Park. Illegal open air concert. Be there or be a dodecahedron. 
> Wait what? 
> Don't you even read Xnet? It's all over the place. You ever hear of the Speedwhores? 
I nearly choked. That was Trudy Doo's band -- as in Trudy Doo, the woman who had paid me and Jolu to update the indienet code. 
> Yeah I've heard of them. 
> They're putting on a huge show and they've got like fifty bands signed to play the bill, going to set up on the tennis courts and bring out their own amp trucks and rock out all night. 
Paraclete resembles a battle scarred narwhal more than the sleek and sexy rockets people generally associated with space craft. Casual observers tend to agree that it has lumps in all the wrong places, ridges where there should be planes. It's like a high school kid's first experiments with a battered old jalopy and an industrial sized bucket of bondo. 
It is a starship straight from the twisted and lumbering imagination of Bosch. 
This is perhaps not surprising given that Paraclete is not designed to slice a clean and brilliant swath through relativistic space, but to trundle along its shipping lanes, to creep into its secret places, to establish contact with hostile elements it might find there and blast the spunky bits out of them. In that light, Paraclete has also been styled as the most secure passenger liner in the history of human transport. 
Ray exits the lift doors and takes a left hand turn away from the main bridge. Here there's a small corridor, at the end of which is a door that he enters without bothering to knock. Becker is there, holding the door ajar as if he was just about to leave. He spots Ray and gives him a look that might be relief. Or it might be more akin to a you are such a tool sentiment. Becker has one of those inscrutable faces that can be difficult to read. 
"Good idea." 
Every once in a while, they come across a fluorescent pool, the light guttering, coloring their skin a haunted blue tint as though they were already corpses and just hadn't realized it yet. While the light lasted, they'd break out into a dead run, dashing as far as it carried them and a short way beyond. Certifiably insane was what it was. 
But that's also all it is— just insane. He keeps waiting for the terror to kick in, for his hands to start shaking and the numbing paralysis of fear to lock his joints and drive him into hyperventilation. For Kilgore and Rodriguez, it's just another live fire exercise or another combat mission in which they're not certain about the armament level of their opponent. For all they know, all they've been told, their opponent is still just a fantasy, 
a wholly human monster wrapped in a bogeyman costume like an actor in the movies. Ray has seen the shed.  He should know better than to be going after it, definitely better than to chase after with anything other than his heart hammering and his pulse throbbing in his throat and his thoughts a gyre of approaching panic. 
"Oh yes, we are," he said. 
"Across a committee room." 
"A podium." 
"On talk-shows." 
"Opposite sides." 
"Right." 
"No fighting dirty, OK?" he said, raising his eyebrows and showing her his big brown eyes. She snorted. 
"Give me a hug and go home," she said. "I'll see you at the hearings when they introduce my bill." 
He hugged her, and she smelled him, thinking, this is the last time I'll smell this smell. 
"Damian," she said, holding him at arm's length. 
"Yes?" he said. 
"I'm going to call you, when I have questions about ant-colony optimization, all right?" 
He looked at her. 
"I need the best expertise I can get. It's in your interest to see to it that I'm well-informed." 
Slowly, he nodded. "Yes, you're right. I'd like that. I'll call you when I have questions about policy, all right?" 
"You're on," she said, and they hugged again, fiercely. 
Once he was gone, she permitted herself the briefest of tears. She knew that she was right and that she was going to make a fool out of him, but she didn't want to think of that right then. She felt the place behind her ear where he'd kissed her before going home and looked around her office, five years of her life in thirty banker's boxes ready to be shipped across the country tomorrow, according to a route that would be governed from moment to moment by invisible, notional, ridiculous insects. 
There seemed nothing humorous about this reply, which was merely the statement of a fact, but an irrepressible titter ran through the school. Miss Dearborn did not enjoy jokes neither made nor understood by herself, and her face flushed. 
"I think you had better stand by the pail for five minutes, Rebecca; it may help you to control your thirst." 
Rebecca's heart fluttered. She to stand in the corner by the water pail and be stared at by all the scholars! She unconsciously made a gesture of angry dissent and moved a step nearer her seat, but was arrested by Miss Dearborn's command in a still firmer voice. 
"Stand by the pail, Rebecca! Samuel, how many times have you asked for water to-day?" 
"This is the f-f-fourth." 
"Don't touch the dipper, please. The school has done nothing but drink this afternoon; it has had no time whatever to study. I suppose you had something salt for breakfast, Samuel?" queried Miss Dearborn with sarcasm. 
"I judged so. Stand by the other side of the pail, Samuel." 
"I judged so. Stand by the other side of the pail, Samuel." 
Rebecca's head was bowed with shame and wrath. Life looked too black a thing to be endured. The punishment was bad enough, but to be coupled in correction with Seesaw Simpson was beyond human endurance. 
Singing was the last exercise in the afternoon, and Minnie Smellie chose Shall we Gather at the River? 
"Shall we gather at the river, 
The beautiful, the beautiful river?" 
Miss Dearborn stole a look at Rebecca's bent head and was frightened. The child's face was pale save for two red spots glowing on her cheeks. Tears hung on her lashes; her breath came and went quickly, and the hand that held her pocket handkerchief trembled like a leaf. 
"You may go to your seat, Rebecca," said Miss Dearborn at the end of the first song. "Samuel, stay where you are till the close of school. And let me tell you, scholars, that I asked Rebecca to stand by the pail only to break up this habit of incessant drinking, which is nothing but empty-mindedness and desire to walk to and fro over the floor. Every time Rebecca has asked for a drink to-day the whole school has gone to the pail one after another. She is really thirsty, and I dare say I ought to have punished you for following her example, not her for setting it. What shall we sing now, Alice?" 
There was a knock at the door at breakfast time, and Rebecca, answering it, was asked by a boy if Miss Rebecca Randall lived there. On being told that she did, he handed her a parcel bearing her name, a parcel which she took like one in a dream and bore into the dining-room. 
"It's a present; it must be," she said, looking at it in a dazed sort of way; "but I can't think who it could be from." 
"A good way to find out would be to open it," remarked Miss Miranda. 
The parcel being untied proved to have two smaller packages within, and Rebecca opened with trembling fingers the one addressed to her. Anybody's fingers would have trembled. There was a case which, when the cover was lifted, disclosed a long chain of delicate pink coral beads,—a chain ending in a cross made of coral rosebuds. A card with "Merry Christmas from Mr. Aladdin" lay under the cross. 
"Of all things!" exclaimed the two old ladies, rising in their seats. "Who sent it?" 
"Mr. Ladd," said Rebecca under her breath. 
"Adam Ladd! Well I never! Don't you remember Ellen Burnham said he was going to send Rebecca a Christmas present? But I never supposed he'd think of it again," said Jane. "What's the other package?" 
Smaller, to the left, Ahkira herself in idealized yellow satin pinafore, dark haired and grinning with her one working eye wide in cyclopean wonder and contentment. (Ray is able to recognize all the family members because Ahkira had subtly identified them with names and slender, accusatory arrows pointing. The fellated individual was anonymous, but Ray supposed it was meant to be him, kind of like the memento photographs you could buy from the camera-wielding barbarians manning steel-reinforced bunker kiosks in U.S. amusement parks). Elevated, but clearly behind Ahkira's sister is the blackened gorgon lump of B'hutuc, 
resplendent with jagged silver knives, a menacing shadow cast across the domestic tableau. Much less threatening presented here than it would have been having his actual flesh and blood present to oversee the sexual activity with the toothy smile of a midnight horror and the self-interest of a Djubruk pimp. 
Ray has kept this picture. It's in a locker in a lease-by-the-month storage depot outside Indianapolis currently, 
No one who is unfamiliar with life in rural neighborhoods can imagine the gravity, the importance, the solemnity of this last day of school. In the matter of preparation, wealth of detail, and general excitement it far surpasses a wedding; for that is commonly a simple affair in the country, sometimes even beginning and ending in a visit to the parsonage. Nothing quite equals graduation in the minds of the graduates themselves, their families, and the younger students, unless it be the inauguration of a governor at the State Capitol. Wareham, then, was shaken to its very centre on this day of days. Mothers and fathers of the scholars, as well as relatives to the remotest generation, had been coming on the train and driving into the town since breakfast time; old pupils, both married and single, with and without families, streamed back to the dear old village. The two livery stables were crowded with vehicles of all sorts, and lines of buggies and wagons were drawn up along the sides of the shady roads, the horses switching their tails in luxurious idleness. The streets were filled with people wearing their best clothes, and the fashions included not only "the latest thing," but the well preserved relic of a bygone day. There were all sorts and conditions of men and women, for there were sons and daughters of storekeepers, lawyers, butchers, doctors, shoemakers, professors, ministers, and farmers at the Wareham schools, either as boarders or day scholars. 
That was when I spotted the outlines of another door— why hadn't I noticed it sooner?—this one steel, there on the left. Alex Goddard might walk in any second now, but I had to try to learn everything I could as fast as I could. What was going on besides what was going on? 
Alert for any new sounds from outside, I quickly went over and tried the knob. 
It was locked tight. 
Figured. Now I really wanted to know what was in there. 
When I glanced around the office, I noticed a ring of keys on the desk. Could he have forgotten them? 
More important, would I blow everything if he caught me snooping? In spite of his attempt at a cool veneer, he might go ballistic. 
I made a snap decision. Take the chance and give them a try. 
My hands were so moist I had trouble holding the slippery keys, but finally I managed to shove in the first one. It went in, but nothing would turn. 
Come on. I managed to wiggle the next one in, my hand trembling now, but again the knob wouldn't budge. Footsteps outside marched up to the door and I stopped breathing, but then they moved on. 
I...  my phone and slipped it into my pocket. I stood up, turned on my heel, and walked out of the cafe. I picked a direction at random and kept going. My face felt tight, the blood gone into my stomach, which churned. 
They know who you are, I thought. They know who M1k3y is. That was it. If Ange had figured it out, the DHS had too. I was doomed. I had known that since they let me go from the DHS truck, that someday they'd come and arrest me and put me away forever, send me to wherever Darryl had gone. 
It was all over. 
She nearly tackled me as I reached Market Street. She was out of breath and looked furious. 
"What the hell is your problem, mister?" 
I shook her off and kept walking. It was all over. 
She grabbed me again. "Stop it, Marcus, you're scaring me. Come on, talk to me." 
I stopped and looked at her. She blurred before my eyes. I couldn't focus on anything. I had a mad desire to jump into the path of a Muni trolley as it tore past us, down the middle of the road. Better to die than to go back. 
“I’m Kate,” the woman said. 
“Robbie,” he said. 
“Robbie the Row-Boat?” she said, and choked a little. 
“They named me at the factory,” he said. He labored to keep any recrimination out of his voice. Of course it was funny. That’s why it was his name. 
“It’s all right, Kate,” he said. “We’ll be back at the boat in a few minutes. They’ve got dinner on. Do you think you’ll want a night dive?” 
“You’re joking,” she said. 
“It’s just that if you’re going to go down again tonight, we’ll save the dessert course for after, with a glass of wine or two. Otherwise we’ll give you wine now.” 
“You want to know if I’m going to get back into that sea—” 
“Oh, it’s just the reef. It attained sentience so it’s acting out a little. Like a colicky newborn.” 
“Aren’t you supposed to be keeping me from harm?” 
“Yes,” he said. “I would recommend a dive away from the reef. There’s a good wreck-site about an hour’s steam from here. We could get there while you ate.” 
“I won’t want a night dive.” 
Her facial expressions were so animated . It was the same face he saw every day, Janet’s face, but not the same face at all. Now that a person was inhabiting it, it was mobile, slipping from surprised to angry to amused so quickly. He had whole subsystems devoted to making sense of human facial expressions, shared libraries from the Asimovist database. He was referencing it again and again, but it wasn’t as much help as he remembered. Either he’d gotten worse at interpreting facial expressions in the years since he’d last had a real human to talk to, or facial expressions had evolved. 
“I’d better take a walk!” thought Lexy, springing up. 
Before she reached the door there was a knock, and Mrs. Royce put her head in. 
“He’s here!” she whispered. “He’s asking for you.” 
“Who?” cried Lexy. 
“Hush! The doctor!” answered Mrs. Royce. “You could ’a’ knocked me down with a feather!” 
Feathers would not have knocked down the sturdy Lexy, however. On the contrary, she was pleased and interested by this utterly unexpected visit. The sinister doctor here, in this house, and asking for her! She started promptly toward the stairs. 
“Miss Moran!” cautioned the landlady, in a whisper. “Don’t tell him nothing!” 
“Tell him!” said Lexy. “But I haven’t anything to tell!” 
“Well, you’d best be very careful!” said Mrs. Royce. 
With this solemn warning in her ears, Lexy descended the stairs. She saw Dr. Quelton standing in the hall, hat in hand, waiting for her. The doctor was rather a disappointment. He was not the dark, sinister figure he should have been. He was a big man, powerfully built, with a clumsy stoop to his tremendous shoulders. His heavy, clean-shaven face would have been an agreeable one if it had not been for its expression, but that expression was not at all an alarming or dangerous one. It was an expression of the most utter and hopeless boredom. 
He rolled his eyes eloquently. 
"It's an interesting vision," Leon said. "I'd take the cure, whatever it was." 
The eyes snapped to him, drilled through him, fierce. "That's the problem, right there . The only people who'll take this are the people who don't need it. Politicians and traders and oddsmakers know how probability works, but they also know that the people who make them fat and happy don't understand it a bit, and so they can't afford to be rational. So there's only one answer to the problem." 
Leon blurted, "The bears." 
Ria let out an audible sigh. 
"The fucking bears," Viktor agreed, and the way he said it was so full of world-weary exhaustion that it made Leon want to hug him. "Yes. As a social reform tool, we couldn't afford to leave this to the people who were willing to take it. So we --" 
"Weaponized it," Ria said. 
"Whose story is this?" 
Leon felt that the limbs of his suit were growing stiffer, his exhaust turning it into a balloon. And he had to pee. And he didn't want to move. 
you’re fat, you’re ugly, nobody likes you, why don’t you just die, 
already? 
Your typical eighth grade misery in concentrated form. 
When her mother complained to the principal, it got worse. 
Sibley transferred to another school, but the hate followed her. 
That’s one of the ways this stuff gets so hard to deal with. They make you think that there’s no escape. In ninth grade, she got drunk at a party and some boys basically raped her but said she went along with it. So no harm, right? They took pictures, of course, and they went viral and the police got involved and every- body hated Sibley even more. 
I didn’t like Sibley, either. Way back in fifth grade she’d been one of the girls who made fun of me on a regular basis. She got really upset when my class had to do PowerPoints about Min- nesota history and mine was about Henry Hastings Sibley, the first governor of Minnesota. 
He screwed over the Dakota by get- ting them to sign a document that they thought was a copy of a treaty, but was actually a trick to take away their money. (The teacher had never heard of such a thing and accused me of making it up until I showed her it was in a book that has footnotes.) 
"What the hell do a twelve-year-old and a grown man have to talk about? I kept him fed. I took him out to the carny and to kiddee movies. I drove him to hockey." 
"You switched off , Grampa," Sean said. "The you that counted wasn't there." 
"Sophistry," Grampa said. "Bullshit. I remember all of it. I was there. Not many other parents were, let me tell you. Usually, it was just me and a few others in the stands, or kids running around loose like animals at the carny. Your father has nothing to complain about." 
"Why, aren't you two looking excited?" Adele said, hobbling alongside of the table. She was leaning on Ethan, a vigorous old man with sinewy arms and dead eyes. His face was unlined, free from smile lines and frowning creases. 
"Hi, Adele," Sean said, trying to keep the exasperation out of his voice. 
"Ethan, this is Sean and his grandfather, Brice." 
Ethan extended his hand and Sean shook it. "Very nice to meet you," Ethan said. His hand was dry and papery, his eyes vacant. Sean shook it, and a frisson of shameful disgust sizzled up his abdomen. He had a sudden vision of Ethan's brain, desiccated in his skull, the gleaming edges of the chip poking free. He surreptitiously wiped his hand on his pants as Ethan turned to Grampa and shook his hand. "Very nice to meet you." 
Not that Ray cares much about that, but it would make a tidy argument for a defense attorney at trial if they hyped the scandal angle. 
And then there's the whole matter of resentment. Emma would most certainly not be pleased with any link between Ray and barging stormtrooper tactics upsetting her domestic tranquility. He was going to have enough to explain to her when this was all over as it was. 
Ray drops back into his seat, acquiescent. "Tomorrow, then. " 
Becker snorts, rubs his eyes, looks like a man who's about to fall over from the weight of his responsibilities. 
"So assume for a moment that he is guilty. Close the loop for me. What does it mean in the larger context. 
You know, given the parallels, the circumstances." 
Ray has been thinking about these things himself, trying to make sense of them. He's not entirely pleased with his conclusions. "It's not a matter of him being just kooky homicidal. The man who committed this crime didn't talk about it, didn't brag, doesn't have a public reputation for mentally aberrant behavior-which would indicate he is sane enough either to hide his disorder or to know murder isn't the type of thing you bring up in polite conversation. So we can rule general madness out. We can also rule in the fact that he has approached a most gruesome task with a clear degree of professionalism and an impressive display of will. He took all the precautions necessary to avoid being caught, went to an incredible expense to do so. Sane people don't do crazy things without a compelling reason. He knew what he was doing, did it with purpose, on purpose and is aware of the consequences of his actions. So, whatever was driving him is perceived as more important than the potential criminal ramifications if he gets caught. " 
I wasn't sure how to tell him. But I was getting that super energy God gives you when you realize life is no longer a game. We had to get focused. 
"Baby, where's your passport?" I asked. 
He looked around then pointed to his battered camera bag in the corner. 
"It's in there. Or was. Central America. Never leave home without it." He grimaced then lightly pushed me away and stood by himself. "Jesus, do you know what they're doing? You were right all along. They're selling kids in the States. That Ramos prick is running the operation, not to mention Alex Goddard's slice of the action. And somebody at the American embassy here is handling all the paperwork, so they can grease everything through the INS. But I still don't understand how it is we're—" 
"Honey, I know exactly what's happening." I'd long since figured out that Alex Goddard and Colonel Ramos were working hand in glove. But I still couldn't bring myself to tell him how he and I were going to be used. It was just too sick. "Listen, not long from now I think I'm supposed to be taken down there to the village for some kind of rite, as part of this whole disgusting operation, and then after that he's going to use . . . You don't want to hear. We've—" 
Checker was Arthur’s business partner, friend, and master of all things electronic. Technically, I supposed he was my friend, too. Once I’d stopped returning his messages a few weeks ago he’d started pestering me through text, from DRUNKN BSG MARATHON 2NITE B THERE to PILAR&I R GOING 2C NEW BATMAN MOVIE U SHOULD COME to R U ALRITE??? SRSLY, TXT ME BACK, and finally, I KNOW UR ALIVE, I CHECKED. LAST CHANCE OR IM SICCING ARTHUR ON U. I’d ignored them all; I hadn’t been in the mood for company. 
Arthur cleared his throat. “So. I take it you ain’t got no cases right now.” 
“Just finished one,” I said. “This is vacation.” 
“You don’t take vacations.” 
“Work’s been slow,” I admitted. The jobs I got paid me more cash than I knew what to do with, but the dead time in between was becoming a problem. “I think...” 
“What’s going on?” 
“No proof, but I think the Lorenzo family might be putting in a bad word here and there. Mama Lorenzo can’t break appearances by coming after me aboveboard, and she might’ve said we were square, but I’ve gotten hints she’s held onto a gallon or so of resentment after last year.” 
“But I observe by your face that you are not convinced,” Mrs. Enderby went on. “‘This Mrs. Enderby, she is a stupid old creature,’ you think to yourself. ‘I shall go there myself, and I shall discover that which she could not.’” 
Lexy reddened again. 
“I don’t mean it that way,” she said. “It’s only that we look at this from different points of view, and I feel—I feel that I’ve got to go.” 
“Very well!” said Mrs. Enderby, and she, too, rose. “You will please to come to my room with me. There is part of your salary to be paid to you.” 
Lexy followed her, still flushed, and very reluctant. She wished she could afford to refuse that money. 
“But I’ve earned it,” she thought; “and goodness knows I’ll need it!” 
Mrs. Enderby sat down at her desk and took out her check book. While she wrote, Lexy looked out of the window. 
“The amount due to you, including to-day, is thirty-two dollars,” said Mrs. Enderby. “Here is a check for it.” 
“Thank you,” said Lexy. 
“One minute more! Here, my child, is another check.” 
(Since all gold hath alloy), 
Thou 'lt bloom unwithered in this heart, 
My Rose of Joy! 
Now I'm going to tuck you up in the shawl and give you the fir pillow, and while you sleep I am going down on the shore and write a fairy story for you. It's one of our 'supposing' kind; it flies far, far into the future, and makes beautiful things happen that may never really all come to pass; but some of them will,—you'll see! and then you'll take out the little fairy story from your desk and remember Rebecca." 
"I wonder why these young things always choose subjects that would tax the powers of a great essayist!" thought Miss Maxwell, as she tried to sleep. "Are they dazzled, captivated, taken possession of, by the splendor of the theme, and do they fancy they can write up to it? Poor little innocents, hitching their toy wagons to the stars! How pretty this particular innocent looks under her new sunshade!" 
Adam Ladd had been driving through Boston streets on a cold spring day when nature and the fashion-mongers were holding out promises which seemed far from performance. 
That's where I knew the name from. The free weekly Guardian often lost its reporters to bigger daily papers and the Internet, but Barbara Stratford had been there forever. I had a dim memory of having dinner with her when I was a kid. 
"We're going there now," my mother said. "Will you come with us, Ron? Will you tell her Darryl's story?" 
He put his face in his hands and breathed deeply. Dad tried to put his hand on his shoulders, but Mr Glover shook it off violently. 
"I need to clean myself up," he said. "Give me a minute." 
Mr Glover came back downstairs a changed man. He'd shaved and gelled his hair back, and had put on a crisp military dress uniform with a row of campaign ribbons on the breast. He stopped at the foot of the stairs and kind of gestured at it. 
"I don't have much clean stuff that's presentable at the moment. And this seemed appropriate. You know, if she wanted to take pictures." 
He and Dad rode up front and I got in the back, behind him. Up close, he smelled a little of beer, like it was coming through his pores. 
"I'm four meters away. Of course I can hear you." 
"Then go stand in the damned bedroom, moron." 
Not until they're certain the equipment works do they shuffle out the door. Ray goes back to work. 
By midnight, the music and the chatter of voices outside the door has, if anything, actually gotten louder. 
Much louder. Ray is certain that he's gone decibel deaf. Around ten, he scrounged a pair of ear plugs from Kilgore's kit, but noticed almost immediately that they didn't seem to help. Even the act of putting together coherent thoughts seemed like shouting inside his own skull. Everything was shouting and noise and that loose bowel feeling from reverberated percussion. It's almost enough to make him glad Emma cancelled their evening. 
Now he's resorted to wearing the tac helmet again, taking advantage of its noise suppression capabilities. 
"You're asking me about my love life?" 
"It's called dynamic data apprehension and analysis, Ray. I'm designed to be curious." 
"And here I thought you were just designed to be annoying and sarcastic and to eat garbage." 
When she had read for half an hour she glanced out of the window and saw two figures issuing from the path through the woods. The knot of bright hair and the coquettish hat could belong to but one person; and her companion, as the couple approached, proved to be none other than Mr. Aladdin. Huldah was lifting her skirts daintily and picking safe stepping-places for the high-heeled shoes, her cheeks glowing, her eyes sparkling under the black and white veil. 
Rebecca slipped from her post by the window to the rug before the bright fire and leaned her head on the seat of the great easy-chair. She was frightened at the storm in her heart; at the suddenness with which it had come on, as well as at the strangeness of an entirely new sensation. She felt all at once as if she could not bear to give up her share of Mr. Aladdin's friendship to Huldah: Huldah so bright, saucy, and pretty; so gay and ready, and such good company! She had always joyfully admitted Emma Jane into the precious partnership, but perhaps unconsciously to herself she had realized that Emma Jane had never held anything but a secondary place in Mr. Aladdin's regard; yet who was she herself, after all, that she could hope to be first? 
Mr. Cobb saw that he had taken the wrong tack, but he was too unused to argument to explain himself readily, so he drove away, trying to think by what safer word than "lively" he might have described his interesting little passenger. 
"I'll take you up and show you your room, Rebecca," Miss Miranda said. "Shut the mosquito nettin' door tight behind you, so 's to keep the flies out; it ain't flytime yet, but I want you to start right; take your passel along with ye and then you won't have to come down for it; always make your head save your heels. Rub your feet on that braided rug; hang your hat and cape in the entry there as you go past." 
"It's my best hat," said Rebecca. 
"Take it upstairs then and put it in the clothes-press; but I shouldn't 'a' thought you'd 'a' worn your best hat on the stage." 
"It's my only hat," explained Rebecca. "My every-day hat wasn't good enough to bring. Fanny's going to finish it." 
"Lay your parasol in the entry closet." 
"Do you mind if I keep it in my room, please? It always seems safer." 
There was an instant’s silence. Then the voice spoke again, a little unsteadily. 
“I—I believe so.” 
“He’s laughing at me!” thought Lexy indignantly, and her voice became severely dignified. 
“Can you tell me where the—the Mazell has gone?” 
“Thank you!” said Lexy. “And that’s that!” she added, to herself. “So he’s a sailor! I rather like sailors. Well, anyhow, he’s gone.” She sighed. “Carry on!” she said. 
She went into a tea room on Forty-Second Street and ordered herself a very good lunch. 
“Much better than I can afford,” she thought. “Goodness knows what’s going to happen to me! Here I am, without visible means of support. I suppose I’m an idiot. Lots of people would say so. They’d say I ought to be looking for a new job this instant; but I don’t care! I’m not going back on Caroline. Mrs. Enderby won’t do anything, and Mr. Houseman’s gone away, and there’s nobody but me. Perhaps I can’t do very much, but, by jiminy, I’m going to try!” 
There was still an hour to spare, and she passed it in a fashion she had often scornfully denounced. She went shopping—without buying. She wandered through a great department store, looking at all sorts of things. Some of them she wanted, but she resolutely told herself that she was better off without them. 
“I can see why you’re concerned,” the FBI agent said. “What do you think, Janet?” 
“You’re seventeen, right?” 
“How did — “ “We’re cops. We checked. You’re a minor.” 
“Yeah, so?” Nikko said. “I still care about what happens to my country. I used to think Simon Meyer was just a typical college student, somebody who goes to demonstrations and talks a lot. 
But this is different. I really think he might be up to something.” 
Jankovich and Martens looked at each other, then Jankovich glanced at her watch and tapped it. “Look, I promised somebody I’d give 'em a call. Back in a minute.” 
For the next five minutes Martens made small talk with Nikko, 
asking him what he was studying in school, what plays he had acted in, deflecting Nikko’s questions about how he could help, 
even though he was technically a minor. Then Jankovich came back into the room. She gave Martens a little nod before taking her chair again. 
“Okay, here’s the thing,” Martens said. “We’re taking this seri- ously, okay? We need to find out if this guy’s for real or if he’s just blowing smoke.” 
His foot touched the ground. 
I launched myself and tackled the DHS guy, taking us both to the ground and covering with the shield at an angle. 
The concussion slammed into us like we’d been hit by a train. Flattening. Deafening. Turning the world inside out. Debris battered the shield, as if the building had been cheated and was reaching out vindictively to bury us. 
When it finally all stopped it felt as if my surroundings had gone to mute after the sensory overload. The dust, the debris, the street, the blast shield I still clung to, the man I was hunched over—everything was deadened and dulled. 
Someone pulled at us. The other agent. Mouthing words at Cliff. 
I rolled away and forced myself up to stand, annoyed it had taken me a moment. The female agent, covered in dust but otherwise unharmed, was helping her partner to his feet. He almost fell. His hands shook where he clutched at her for support. 
I left them to it and loped away. 
“Hey!” the woman shouted, the audio muffled like she was calling from very far away, but I didn’t turn. They weren’t going to shoot me in the back. At least I didn’t think so. They did yell after me, but I couldn’t hear what they said, which was just as well. 
To keep it all locked away. 
I said to Checker, “Tell me, right now, that you’re going to let this go.” 
He squeezed his eyes shut for a long moment. “I can’t.” 
I felt numb. 
I turned and put a hand on the doorknob. “If you’re in trouble, I’ll come,” I said, not looking back at him. “Otherwise, call me when you change your mind.” 
I pushed open the door and headed out of the Hole without looking back. 
Checker called after me, imploring, frantic, but I didn’t acknowledge him. His pleas echoed in my head until I fell asleep that night and dreamt of half-real monsters who smothered me in false memory and distorted realities. 
When I woke only a few hours later, I stumbled for the darkened streets, seeking the strongest chemical remedies money and back alleyways could offer. 
The lift doors ping, open, and they exit into the corridor. He has no interest in talking to Amah again, to be honest. Doesn't really give a rat's ass about her or Frederick. "I'd actually like to meet some of these kids that occupy so much of your time. You know, assure myself that they actually exist instead of secretly believing that you've got a boyfriend on the side." 
"Then it's a good time. They should just be finishing up their evening studies." 
'"Evening studies'. Quite the drill sergeant you are." 
But Emma shakes her head. "Don't drag me into it. Amah designs the schedule for their education, and the tutors she selected to travel with us implement it. I'm just here for moral support, and because it's expected of me to take an interest. But I'm not very good with children." 
"I'm sure you're just being modest." 
"Not at all, Ray. You'll see." 
At the door, she keys in her entry code, stopping the kako-daemon's warble in mid complaint. It's a reasonable excuse to let go of his hand, which is just as well, since Ray had been wondering how to do that without making it look like he was trying not to hold her hand in front of Amah and any other Whiston domestics who might be about. It's another one of those romantic dilemmas that hasn't really changed since Julie Gentry. Age and experience, if they were supposed to collude in providing a solution on the intervening twenty years, are vastly overrated in his opinion. 
"What's he doing?" the Series A man said. Lee-Daniel knew that the surveyor in the bus snored, that he did tricks with a butterfly knife, that he sent money home to his little sister in Muncie. He couldn't remember his names. He was no good with names. But he knew his people. 
"What you do, when you get fired. Stealing office supplies." 
The surveyor crawled back out of the sunroof with a pillowcase stuffed with schwag, then lit out down the freeway's shoulder in the direction of Buffalo. 
"He won't be the last," Lee-Daniel said. 
"No," said MacDiarmid. "I don't expect he will." 
"But they're not fired ," the Series B man said. Lee-Daniel didn't know either of the investors' names. Fucking spear-carriers, fronts for unimaginable, implacable wealth, charged with returning 400 percent over three years on a national-budget-sized fund. 
"Tell them," Lee-Daniel said. "They don't listen when they're like this." They don't listen to people like you, not ever. 
"Get down," he said to Elaine. She was wedged into a crook and tied off with an improvised harness made out of nylon rope and carabiners from her vest. "We've got to get back to the bus!" 
The car shuddered as it wove in and out of the lanes on the Don Valley Parkway, barreling for the Gardiner Express Way, using his copper’s override to make the thick, slow traffic part ahead of him. He wasn’t supposed to do this, but as between a minor infraction and pissing off the man from Social Harmony, he knew which one he’d pick. 
Sheppard meant the Sheppard subway, which meant that she was going farther. “Continue discreet surveillance.” He thought about the overcoat men with their sticky hats. “If she attempts to board the subway, alert the truancy patrol.” He cursed again. Maybe she was just going to the mall. But he couldn’t go up there himself and make sure, and it wasn’t like a robot would be any use in restraining her, she’d just second-law it into letting her go. 
She was almost certainly just going to the mall. She was a smart kid, a good kid—a rotten kid, to be sure, but good-rotten. Chances were she’d be trying on clothes and flirting with boys until lunch and then walking boldly back into class. He ballparked it at an 80 percent probability. If it had been a perp, 80 percent might have been good enough. 
"Come on, girl," the lawyer said, twirling her moustache. "Be serious. You two had so much sexual energy in that room, it's a wonder you didn't make the bulbs explode. It's how you got inside each other's heads. You weren't selling the committee, you were selling him , and that's what made you so effective. We're going to need that again at the FCC, too -- so no getting over him until after then." 
Trish drank her whisky. She didn't know what to say to that. He'd looked ten years older tonight, in the corridors, whispering to his committee members, to his staffers, his face drooping and wilted. She supposed she didn't look any better. It had been, what, three days? since she'd had more than an hour's sleep. 
"I don't get it," she said. "How could he be so dumb? I mean, it's obvious that the system is being gamed. Obvious that we're being targeted through it. Yet he sits there, insisting that white is black, that up is down, that the network is autonomous and immune to all corruption." 
Trenches the span of a hand spoke out from the depression to the pool, runlets which seem to have no purpose at first. Except that in this bowl are seven men, nude, laid out side by side, ranging in age from maybe twelve to thirty. Astride their hips sit seven more men. They're rigid, backs straight, arms held perpendicular to their bodies, mimicking triangles because in their hands are golden instruments that look to Ray like shovel heads. 
A man at the lectern chudders at them in a stiff and incomprehensible dialect that sounds vaguely like Arabic, but not any form Ray has known. His hands gesture over the congregation and occasionally toward the pool in wide, orchestrated swoops. This is the voice Ray heard, rich and baritone, measured in pace, sounding like a New England chorister. 
Mikhail Brezhnaya. 
Ray processes all these images and impressions in the first instants; his mind grapples for meaning, for a frame of reference. 
And in that dry, eternal moment, Brezhnaya cries out. The shovel heads plunge in unison. The bodies of the naked men arch beneath the blows and they emit a gurgling, gasping grunt. Strike and drag, like rowing an oar through a sea of flesh, the Dispensationalists core their victims out, scooping entrails and flinging them in wide, steaming arcs into the pool. The depression erupts with blood— spouted into the air, soaking into fabric, 
He recognizes the composition of the image by theory rather than fact. It's one of those things only the ship's designers see in actuality, before the cone is sealed and the venting tubes attached and the cooling tanks pumped full of distilled water. It's the inside of Paraclete's Van Nuys reactor. He doesn't really understand how it works, but he recognizes the tree trunk sized plutonium enriched rods suspended over quicksilver domes that serve as their contact points. From this angle, he can see just a glimpse of the finely bored circumference chamber, the particle super- accelerator which bombards the rods and the contacts with a withering stream of atomic-fusion fuel.  Three cameras. Three chambers full of rods, only two of which are kept on-line at any given time while the third is brought down on a rotating schedule for maintenance by an army of reactor drones. But all three are functioning now, stabbing blue strobes of lighting between rods and contacts. The fierce bursts of electrical energy scour the chambers, scorching the pale, gray walls with blackened scars. 
"Do it in Clockwork Plunder. Just pick a trading post where there's no PvP allowed and name a time. You can login from here." 
PvP is player-versus-player combat. Parts of Clockwork Plunder were neutral ground, which meant that we could theoretically bring in a ton of noob reporters without worrying about gamers killing them in the middle of the press-conference. 
"I don't know anything about press conferences." 
"Oh, just google it. I'm sure someone's written an article on holding a successful one. I mean, if the President can manage it, I'm sure you can. He looks like he can barely tie his shoes without help." 
We...  very smart woman," I said. 
"And I'm beautiful," she said. 
"That too," I said. 
I blogged the press-conference even before I'd sent out the invitations to the press. I could tell that all these writers wanted to make me into a leader or a general or a supreme guerrilla commandant, and I figured one way of solving that would be to have a bunch of Xnetters running around answering questions too. 
I got the message and moved on. I peeled away from the gang at Van Ness. We clung to each other and cried and promised to call each other. 
The walk back to Potrero Hill has an easy route and a hard route, the latter taking you over some of the steepest hills in the city, the kind of thing that you see car chases on in action movies, with cars catching air as they soar over the zenith. I always take the hard way home. It's all residential streets, and the old Victorian houses they call "painted ladies" for their gaudy, elaborate paint-jobs, and front gardens with scented flowers and tall grasses. Housecats stare at you from hedges, and there are hardly any homeless. 
It was so quiet on those streets that it made me wish I'd taken the other route, through the Mission, which is... raucous is probably the best word for it. Loud and vibrant. Lots of rowdy drunks and angry crack-heads and unconscious junkies, and also lots of families with strollers, old ladies gossiping on stoops, lowriders with boom-cars going thumpa-thumpa-thumpa down the streets. There were hipsters and mopey emo art-students and even a couple old-school punk-rockers, old guys with pot bellies bulging out beneath their Dead Kennedys shirts. Also drag queens, angry gang kids, graffiti artists and bewildered gentrifiers trying not to get killed while their real-estate investments matured. 
The factory was a cluster of huge near-windowless buildings. A solid, high cement wall lined the curb in the gaps between structures, keeping hooligans on the street from wandering in, but the buildings themselves were the bulk of the barrier. Erratic graffiti dotted the wall here and there, but it was old and half-assed, as if even the graffiti artists lost whatever will they had as soon as they came out here. 
Yeah. This place was perfect. 
The main entrance had a solid metal gate that was locked up with a rusted chain and padlock. I drove on by. Two other entrances were similarly barricaded, and three corrugated metal gates looked like they’d lead straight into buildings or down into underground loading docks. 
If they had any surveillance, it was likely to be at those points—and maybe along the wall, to see if anyone was climbing over. Squatting in a huge abandoned complex like this meant they probably wouldn’t have wired the whole thing up for security. 
Probably. 
Well, there was only one way to find out. 
Someone had wanted to be very, very, very sure no one reconstituted the data from this office. Hell, it wasn’t like most people could piece back together shredded documents in the first place; certainly no one could do it easily—except me, that is, but it seemed both egotistical and too coincidental to assume this destruction was for my benefit. Why would anyone go to so much extra trouble? 
“Hey, Russell,” Tresting called. 
I carefully avoided the corpses in the outer office and wound my way back to the torture chamber of a conference room. Tresting stood at the far end, examining an empty chair. “Look at this,” he said, and I stepped around to oblige him. Sprays of blood crossed the edges of the chair in multiple places, but the seat and back were clean. 
“Someone was sitting here,” I said. 
“Haven’t seen Dawna Polk anywhere. Could be her?” 
I narrowed my eyes at the chair seat, trying to remember the measurements of Dawna’s hips. I hadn’t been paying too much attention, but I estimated, measuring in my memory. “No. This is too wide. I’m guessing a man. Or a large woman.” I squinted at the blood spatter surrounding the empty chair, the numbers spiraling to find their sources in midair, a person-shaped outline of shimmering red. “Whoever it was got tortured, too.” 
It is complications of this sort that have always made Ray perfectly happy to work for the CIU. In his regular line of work, individuals are not accorded the time to gripe about cases of mistaken identity. 
So it would be easy to walk away here, to conclude that Frederick Whiston is a prick and a sod and one generally screwed up son of a bitch who liked to manhandle his sister, who liked to frequently engage in public displays of stupidity, but whose shortcomings did not include a proclivity to murder little kids for pleasure. Jesus knows that Becker would be perfectly happy if he did such a thing. 
But it isn't that simple. 
Because Emma believes Freddy could do such a thing. Ray sees it in her when she speaks of her brother. Sees it in the way her expression blanches like she's preparing to ward off unseen blows, in the way her eyes skitter away from his, in the way she hates and fears and loathes Frederick all at the same time. 
And if she believes, there has to be something to it, right? Despite what Kilgore and Rodriguez have reported that everyone else says about Frederick, and the fact that they can't link him to the crime scene or to the breach of the bay through missing security keys or through any of the dozen other plausible scenarios they've developed to explain the how and the why of it all. He'll look again if for no other reason than that Emma says it might be possible. 
The marble was cold against my bare arms as I swept my hands across the floor. Then I ran my fingers down the edge of the stair. 
And there it was, on the first step. My left hand closed around the cold barrel of an automatic. I shifted it to my right, grasping the plastic grip, not entirely sure what I should do with it. But at least I had a gun. I'd never actually held a real one before, but it was heavy and I assumed it was ready to fire. 
I was halfway down the first set of stairs, on my way to the landing, when I felt an arm slip around my neck. I ducked and twisted away, stumbling down the last three or four steps, and landed on my feet, staggering back against the wall to regain my balance. All I knew was, the next steps loomed somewhere to my right. Just a few more feet . . . 
But he was there again, moving between me and the final stairs. Get around him, I told myself, but at that moment he grabbed me at the waist. 
Dancing in the dark, but the swirl had no music and no swing, just a quick, dizzying pirouette. I aimed the pistol as close as I could to his face and pulled the hard metal trigger. 
"Did I miss something? When did I become the principle ogre in your pantheon? Are you angry at me?" 
Sean barked a laugh and turned onto the Home's exit-ramp. "I guess I am, Dad. Grampa had the operation -- it was easy for him to switch off. You needed to make a special effort." The words flew from his mouth like crows, and Sean clamped his jaw shut. He tensed for the inevitable scathe of verbiage. None came. He risked a glance in his rear-view. 
His father was staring morosely out at the Home. Adele patted Sean's hand and gave him a sympathetic look. Sean parked the car. 
"Hi, Pop," Sean's father said, when they came to the table where Grampa sat. Ethan sat across from him. 
Grampa glared at them. "This guy won't leave me alone. He's a fucking vegetable," he said, gesturing at Ethan. Adele pursed her lips at him. He patted her arm absently. "It needed to be said." 
Sean's father reached around the table and gave Grampa a stiff hug. "Good to see you, Pop." 
"Yeah, likewise. Sit down, Mitch. Sit down, Sean. Sit down, Adele." They sat. "Ask your questions, Sean," he ordered. 
“Let’s try something else,” said Checker, and I tried not to feel like he was working to spare my feelings. He hit a few more keys, and Tresting’s second monitor lit up to show an array of photographs, mostly poor headshots. I realized they were driver’s license photos, women named Polk with the first name Dawna or Donna. I didn’t even know which way she spelled it. “Do you see her?” Checker asked. “If she backed up the alias with paperwork, I might be able to track it.” 
Eighty-seven photos had matched his search, and I took a good minute to scroll through them all, even though I didn’t need that long. After all, bone structures are only measurements, and measurements are only math. None of the eigenvectors of the feature sets were even close to Dawna’s, but I compared the isometric invariants anyway, delaying the conclusion I already knew was true. 
Dawna’s face wasn’t there. I shook my head. 
“Color me shocked,” murmured Tresting. 
My embarrassment was hardening into a cold fury. The anger gave me a focus, made it easier to think. “What about a picture?” I said. “Would that help?” 
I opened the rotting cabinets against the wall, checked that the AK was on full auto—it was, idiots —and fired. 
The magazine emptied itself in less than three seconds. I reloaded and repeated. In short order, I’d perforated myself a very nice little hole in the base of the wall. 
I kicked out the remaining plaster and wood and then ducked down and jammed my head through. The firefight muffled itself momentarily as I pushed through the dense screen of plant growth that had crept to life in the crack of sunlight against the wall before I burst through under the decking. It was cool under there, dark and musty-smelling with narrow white slats of light striping the dirt. I wormed the rest of my body out and through, dragging the AK with me just in case. 
There was still a chance I’d be hit by a stray bullet under here, but much less, considering the Feds would be concentrating on the main building. The space wasn’t tall enough for me to crawl, but I managed a reasonably fast belly-and-elbows squirm. 
“You called me,” he pleaded. 
“In a moment of weakness. I believe I was very clear I do not want any help from you.” 
“Arthur?” I said. 
He made a “back off” motion at me with one hand. “You need help. You told me I wouldn’t understand, well, I brought someone who will. Just talk to us. Please.” 
“What is your area of specialization?” said Halliday. 
She hadn’t looked up, and it took me a second to realize she was talking to me. I wasn’t great at reading people’s tones, but it had never been more obvious someone was trying to set me up to fail. 
Oh, fuck you. 
I plopped down in one of the chairs across from Halliday’s desk, sprawling in an inelegant slouch. “You know. I do a little of everything.” 
“I do not mean to be rude,” said Halliday, “but Arthur does not grasp the level of depth and complexity in my field—” 
“Liar,” I said. “You do mean to be rude. Go on, say what you’re thinking.” 
She finally turned to regard me, folding her hands on the desk in front of her. “Miss...Miss Russell,” she said, the title only slightly questioning, “I know personally everyone in the same line of research as myself. You must understand how specialized areas of higher math are. Even doctorates in the same general area would require a great deal of study to understand what—” 
"I don't ask you to love me. Just to make me proud. " Holcomb reaches forward to toggle the switch that will sever their connection. "Do try not to be overly troublesome, Ray. As hard as that might be for you." 
Jack Holcomb grins widely, then the screen goes blank and Ray is left alone in his room. 
In the afternoon, Ray makes his way uplevel to Marine Barracks Level Four, what Kilgore and Rodriguez had  termed the Hump Deck. He hasn't come this way before, has in fact avoided the area on principle, because he was afraid it would make him feel homesick. Upon arrival at the security checkpoint, he finds that either Becker or Sorensen has already paved the way. The desk sergeant guarding the bulkhead door briefly checks his id against the list and tells him that he's expected. Ray asks for directions to Captain Cable's office and is given a refreshingly terse set of instructions. 
He wanders inside, and yep, there's that stab of longing, of old familiarity. The gangways are straight and clean, a glowing olive drab from what he fully expects to have been thousands of hand polishings, deck swabbings, demerit based repainting missions doled out by an officer corps who believed that idle hands were indeed the devil's playground. If it was physically possible, they would probably have found a way to make the grunts dig completely redundant latrines. He strolls past sharp intersections and through pressure doors that remind him of choke points, places where a squad of well supplied soldiers could hold off a battalion strength invading force with a minimum of force. At every open door, he sees a desk; behind every desk a specialist or sergeant or company clerk; on each face a steady look of calculation because they've been tracking the flop of his feet against the deck and have been evaluating his potential threat all the way up the corridor. Deeper in, there are recreation rooms with wide vid terminals, weight and exercise facilities, a general use computing room with rows of currently unoccupied terminals. Everywhere is the corrosive scent of cleaning agents, floor wax, shoe polish. 
“Then I suppose you’re going to tell Mr. Enderby?” 
“This evening.” 
“And then?” 
“Then I shall be guided by his advice,” Mrs. Enderby replied blandly. 
Lexy could have smiled at this. She knew how likely Mrs. Enderby was to be guided by her husband; but she kept the smile and the thought to herself. 
“I don’t want to interfere with your plans—” she began. 
“I have no plans.” 
“I mean, if you’re going to take steps to find her—” 
“My child,” said Mrs. Enderby, “it is clear that you wish to amuse yourself with a grand mystery. I tell you there is no mystery, but you do not believe me. I ask you to say nothing of this matter, but you refuse. So I say to you now—go your own way, proceed with your mystery. I do not think you can hurt me very much.” 
Lexy flushed. 
“I don’t want to hurt any one,” she declared stiffly. “I just want to help your daughter.” 
“Proceed, then!” said Mrs. Enderby. 
Lexy rose. 
“Then I’ll say good-by, Mrs. Enderby,” she said. “My trunk’s packed. I’ll send for it this afternoon.” 
“Guys, everything’s fried!” came Checker’s panicked voice. “They must have hit us with an EMP; it’s the only thing that could’ve—” 
“That’s what Rio said!” I interrupted. “Somebody start explaining now!” 
“EMP,” said Checker. “Electromagnetic pulse, it’ll fry any electronics in the radius—” 
“I know that,” I cut in. “I’m not an idiot. Skip to the ‘how’ part.” 
“High-altitude nuclear detonation is probably the easiest way,” said Checker. 
I felt dazed. “Easiest?” 
“Clearly you’re not up on your right-wing nut job blogs,” said Checker. “One high-altitude nuke could take out all the electronics in the United States. The good news is, no loss to human life, except of course for all of the countless people who are depending on medical electronics to keep them kicking—” 
“Cars,” I said. “What about cars?” 
“I don’t—I don’t know. Most cars are computerized these days—older ones might have a better chance? I don’t know—” 
“We need to get out of the radius,” I said. “Checker, you’ve been backing up in the cloud, right? If we can get to a place that’s not fried, will the network be—” 
I stared at her, hungry for details, but she didn't notice, just pressed on. 
"The money they wanted, I have to tell you, was stagger­ing. Sixty thousand. And believe me, they don't give revolv­ing credit." 
I thought about the figure. It was the highest I'd heard for getting a baby, but it wasn't totally off-the-wall. Terrific ba­bies don't drop from trees. 
Carly was still going strong. "It took me almost half a year to scrounge it together. A lot of credit lines got maxed. But when I finally did plunk down the loot, sure enough, I had Kevin in less than three months. I don't even know where he came from. They took care of all that, but I do know it was probably out of the country, because of the blank INS forms I signed. But then, who cares? With a deal this good, you don't press for details, right?" 
Carly Grove had a mutual love affair with the camera. The footage was going to be fabulous. The only problem was, it sounded like an "infomercial" for the adoption miracle wrought by this doctor named Goddard. 
I picked up the phone again and called Dawna’s work number. 
Her secretary answered, and hemmed and hawed about her boss being in a meeting, but apparently Dawna cared a lot more about her sister than whatever she was doing at work, because mere seconds later her voice came fast and breathless over the line. “Did you find her? Is she okay? Oh my God—did they hurt her?” 
“She’s fine!” I raised my voice to cut in over her frantic queries. “ Fine! She’s sleeping right now.” 
“Oh—Ms. Russell, I don’t know how to thank you. I just—she’s my little sister; I can’t— thank you—” 
“Yeah, okay, okay.” I had trouble squeezing a word in. “Dawna, we need to meet. Your sister—she might have gotten in deeper than she realized.” 
“I don’t under—what happened? Is she still in danger?” 
“We’ll talk in person,” I said. I didn’t want to give away too much—the way this case was going, someone was probably listening in on Dawna. Or following her....  met before? Meet me there in an hour.” 
“I—of course—of course I will. Will Courtney come? Can I see her?” 
“Yes. Preemptive policing is all the rage these days. But there’s some good news, thanks to your hypotheticals. Look at the front pages.” 
She tried to spread them out, but there was too much clutter on the table, so she held them up to show me instead. The headline at the top of the Star Tribune was “Local Case Gets the Holly- wood Treatment.” The Pioneer Press had an article running down the right side of the front page headlined “Lilmmaker Locuses Her Lens on Minneapolis.” 
“Wow. This attention will help?” 
“It may make the public sympathetic. I’ve seen enough of your brother to believe he is a sweet-natured and idealistic young man who didn’t mean anyone harm. It doesn’t hurt that he’s white and raised in a Christian household.” 
“It wasn’t all that Christian.”...  down the hard bits and mash them with my spoon. 
“I just mean Muslims are by far the most common targets of these stings, and they don’t get much benefit of the doubt. In this case, though, the press coverage is likely to be helpful and the court of public opinion hands down its rulings instantly using Tweets, whatever they are. No, don’t try to educate me. There isn’t time.” 
Frex, contrary to Commander Sorensen's esteemed opinion Ray is not a civilian, though he has no definite rank and does not appear in the published or internal records of military hierarchy. He has, in fact, been a Marine, may still be a Marine actually. He's a little fuzzy on the details of his discharge or lack thereof himself-but as long as the numbers in his bank account change on a semi-regular basis, he doesn't ask and doesn't particularly care. 
The truth is that he works for the FSA just like Sorensen and the rest of Paraclete's crew. They're Exploration and Enforcement Division, and he's Criminal Investigations Unit. The critical difference between these two departments is that everyone has heard of the EED because it governs much of the intergalactic migration policy and economic development interests on authority practically derived from its possession of a copious number of thirty inch matter cannons and legally supported by a Terran Congressional Forum mandate that is almost nine decades old. The CIU on the other hand, nobody has heard of. Few people even have an inkling that such a department exists. The names of all the FSA officials who can put an acronym to it and identify the individuals assigned to it would fit in one column on one side of a sheet of notebook paper. 
Tony came in with more boxes and looked at me. He said, "God, what's eating you?" 
I told him. I didn't know what else to do. I thought that maybe I could get Rhindquist on the phone, but he'd left me in charge. 
Tony smiled, but it wasn't a happy smile. "Well, there you go. You've made your first executive decision." 
I said, "I didn't make any decision!" 
He just laughed and pointed to the TV, which was showing pictures of a city just like File-O-Gator, the buildings all collapsed and burning. He said, "Sure looks like an executive decision to me." The picture panned over an apartment building that was split down the middle, the apartments naked and exposed, the people who lived there dead and sprawled or alive and hanging over the edge, vomiting. 
Oh, those poor people! 
I didn't know what I was doing! 
I spent all last night throwing up, and I'm not sure if I'm going to go to the office today. 
Hi Mom! 
Well, I didn't go to work yesterday. Instead, I got out of bed, sat on the sofa in my shorts, and turned on the movies. My watch got loud and angry, so I stuck it underneath my pillow. Then, messages started appearing on my TV. I ignored them. 
She cried. “Leeza—” 
Mata took her hands. “Leeza is fine,” she said. “She made sure we told you that.” 
She cried harder, but smiling this time. Trover was on her mother’s hip, and looking like he didn’t know whether to stay quiet or pitch one of his famous tantrums. Automatically, Valentine gave him a tickle that brought a smile that kept him from bursting out in tears. 
They left the hospital together and walked home, though it was far. The Metro wasn’t running and the air-cars were still grounded. Some of the buildings they passed were nothing but rubble, and there robots and people labored to make sense of them and get them reassembled and back on their feet. 
It wasn’t until the next day that she found out that Reeta had been killed under the cine. She threw up the porridge she’d had for breakfast and shut herself in her room and cried into her pillow until she fell asleep. 
Three days after the siege began, Mata went away. 
“You can’t go!” Popa shouted at her. “Are you crazy? You can’t go to the front! You have two small children, woman!” He was red-faced and his hands were clenching and unclenching. Trover was having a tantrum that was so loud and horrible that Valentine wanted to rip her hearing aids out. 
“Something like that,” he got out. “This won’t work. It’s not as simple as—” 
“Then you have nothing to lose,” I said, starting to tear the ammo cases open. 
Two and a half minutes. 
“I saw some blast shields back there,” I tossed to his partner without stopping what I was doing. “Go grab some.” This time she didn’t hesitate before sprinting away. 
The math here wouldn’t be difficult. Just simple division: weight and volume. And then watch like a hawk to see where my darling victim was putting his weight so I could match it. The massively hard part would be the juggling act itself. And fuck, I’d probably pull a muscle. 
Whatever. Man’s life, and all that. Arthur was a bad influence. 
I heaved over the first ammo case. The dimensions of the fire safe gave it a volume of just over five gallons, which would be enough, barely. I poured the cardboard box of ammunition inside, my senses alert to double-check the weight and keep track of where I was at. The rounds tinkled over each other as they filled the bottom of the safe. 
She took him down the stairs, snuffling and weeping a little still, but logy from all the rich food. She led him to the civic patrol office. 
“I can win the war,” she said. 
The woman from the city wasn’t so fat anymore, but she still had her armor on. She was the one who’d told father he had to go to the war. She didn’t seem to recognize Valentine, though. 
She stared at Valentine. “I’m busy,” she said. 
“I know a—” Valentine searched for the word. “A profiteer who has access to hardened logic that the infowar doesn’t work against.” 
The woman from the city looked at her a little longer this time. “I’m very busy, little girl.” 
“I can bring you to him. He has working printers.” 
The woman pretended not to hear her. She stared down at a pile of papers in front of her, and it was clear to Valentine that she was only pretending to read them. 
Valentine led Trover to the woman’s desk and knocked all the papers off of it. 
“It’s illegal to be a profiteer. Don’t you want to at least arrest him?” 
“Comrade,” the old hero said. “A word, please.” 
The hooded figure to whom he spoke looked up from its workbench and peered through the old hero’s hood. Then it saluted smartly and hurried to the old hero’s side. 
“General—” The hooded figure had a man’s voice, almost as old as the old hero’s voice. 
The old hero—the general—touched his hand to his hood and then pulled a retractable wire out of his helmet and presented it to the other. The other patched it into his helmet’s collar. Even with her marvelous new ears, Valentine couldn’t hear what they said. 
They released their umbilicus a moment later and the other one turned to Valentine. 
“Is it true?” His voice was choked, like he could barely get the words out. 
“In my ears,” she said. “Hardened logic.” 
The other man danced from foot to foot. “It can’t be true,” he said. 
She nodded. 
The old man rooted through his workbench and came up with a wand that he put against her the back of neck. It was similar to the wand that the doctor/camera-woman at the wizard’s house had used to figure out her hearing aids. 
"She might as well help along her folks as spend it on foolishness," affirmed Mrs. Robinson. "I think she was mighty lucky to git it to pay the interest with, but she's probably like all the Randalls; it was easy come, easy go, with them." 
"That's more than could be said of the Sawyer stock," retorted Mrs. Perkins; "seems like they enjoyed savin' more'n anything in the world, and it's gainin' on Mirandy sence her shock." 
"I don't believe it was a shock; it stands to reason she'd never 'a' got up after it and been so smart as she is now; we had three o' the worst shocks in our family that there ever was on this river, and I know every symptom of 'em better'n the doctors." And Mrs. Peter Meserve shook her head wisely. 
"Mirandy 's smart enough," said Mrs. Cobb, "but you notice she stays right to home, and she's more close-mouthed than ever she was; never took a mite o' pride in the prize, as I could see, though it pretty nigh drove Jeremiah out o' his senses. I thought I should 'a' died o' shame when he cried 'Hooray!' and swung his straw hat when the governor shook hands with Rebecca. It's lucky he couldn't get fur into the church and had to stand back by the door, for as it was, he made a spectacle of himself. My suspicion is"—and here every lady stopped eating and sat up straight—"that the Sawyer girls have lost money. They don't know a thing about business 'n' never did, and Mirandy's too secretive and contrairy to ask advice." 
Ray is not at all happy about this. 
Standing beside him, palpably amused by Ray's discomfort, Becker slaps a pair of small, white tablets onto the table next to his keypad. He screws the lid back on the top of the vial they came from and shoves it deep into his pocket. 
"For the nausea," he says. 
Ray swallows them dry. "Pharmaceuticals are the pinnacle of human creativity. The older I get, the more I am convinced that this is fact."  His guts have been churning off and on for days, and only recently did it occur to him that the crisis-level heaving of his stomach tended to coincide with the regular ignition of deceleration thrust. He thought he was just being a wuss, and he had looked forward to the constant pressure of the docking protocol with something akin to sublime dread. 
"Just make sure you get to the dispensary and pick up you own script before tomorrow," Becker points out. 
"You're absolutely no good to me if you're in the head chucking up your intestines for the last two days of the flight." 
Arturo seethed. He hadn’t arrested the kid—but he had put a pen-trace and location-log on his phone. Arresting the kid would have raised questions about Ada with Social Harmony, but bugging him might just lead Arturo to his daughter. 
He hefted his new phone. He should tip the word about his daughter. He had no business keeping this secret from the Department and Social Harmony. It could land him in disciplinary action, maybe even cost him his job. He knew he should do it now. 
But he couldn’t—someone needed to be tasked to finding Ada. Someone dedicated and good. He was dedicated and good. And when he found her kidnapper, he’d take care of that on his own, too. 
He hadn’t eaten all day but he couldn’t bear to stop for a meal now, even if he didn’t know where to go next. The mall? Yeah. The lab-rats would be finishing up there and they’d be able to tell him more about the infowar bot. 
But the lab-rats were already gone by the time he arrived, along with all possible evidence. He still had the security guard’s key and he let himself in and passed back to the service corridor. 
"Yes, you may go, and you'd better run as far as you can out behind the barn, so 't your noise won't distract your aunt Mirandy. I see Susan Simpson and the twins and Emma Jane Perkins hiding behind the fence." 
Rebecca leaped off the porch, snatched Alice Robinson from under the currant bushes, and, what was much more difficult, succeeded, by means of a complicated system of signals, in getting Emma Jane away from the Simpson party and giving them the slip altogether. They were much too small for certain pleasurable activities planned for that afternoon; but they were not to be despised, for they had the most fascinating dooryard in the village. 
In it, in bewildering confusion, were old sleighs, pungs, horse rakes, hogsheads, settees without backs, bed-steads without heads, in all stages of disability, and never the same on two consecutive days. Mrs. Simpson was seldom at home, and even when she was, had little concern as to what happened on the premises. A favorite diversion was to make the house into a fort, gallantly held by a handful of American soldiers against a besieging force of the British army. Great care was used in apportioning the parts, for there was no disposition to let anybody win but the Americans. Seesaw Simpson was usually made commander-in-chief of the British army, and a limp and uncertain one he was, capable, with his contradictory orders and his fondness for the extreme rear, of leading any regiment to an inglorious death. Sometimes the long-suffering house was a log hut, and the brave settlers defeated a band of hostile Indians, or occasionally were massacred by them; but in either case the Simpson house looked, to quote a Riverboro expression, "as if the devil had been having an auction in it." 
anybody who helps him out could get in trouble. 
Any ideas? 
Zeke replied faster than the time it took me to write my mes- sage. 
<Falstaff> Will check with a couple of peo- ple. Be careful out there, Shad. Big Brother is a data-sucking asshat. 
It made me feel a little better, but I still felt knots in my stom- ach, picturing Wheeze and thinking about cold and pain and hunger and whether I could fix it before the FBI caught up with him - or found him frozen stiff and starved to death. 
The knots were still there when Nikko showed up at our meet- ing place. I had decided on Wilson, a giant library at the university (and my brother’s namesake because our mom practically lived there when she was a pregnant student; it was lucky she wasn’t a chemistry major or he’d be named Walter after the science library). 
Though there were security cameras all over campus, the library itself was pretty good about not spying on people inside the building. All that the surveillance cameras outside the library would show is two people arriving separately among the hundreds who would go through the library’s doors that day. Once we were indoors, we didn’t have to worry about any cameras recording our meeting. 
She opened the kitchen door and stared vaguely about her, wondering whether she had strayed into the wrong house by mistake. 
The shades were up, and there was a roaring fire in the stove; the teakettle was singing and bubbling as it sent out a cloud of steam, and pushed over its capacious nose was a half sheet of note paper with "Compliments of Rebecca"...  out in a...  process were standing near. The cold potatoes and corned beef were in the wooden tray, and "Regards of Rebecca" stuck on the chopping knife. The brown loaf was out, the white loaf was out, the toast rack was out, the doughnuts...  the butter had been brought from the dairy. 
Miranda removed the shawl from her head and sank into the kitchen rocker, ejaculating under her breath, "She is the beatin'est child! I declare she's all Sawyer!" 
The day and the evening passed off with credit and honor to everybody concerned, even to Jane, who had the discretion to recover instead of growing worse and acting as a damper to the general enjoyment. The Burches left with lively regrets, and the little missionaries, bathed in tears, swore eternal friendship with Rebecca, who pressed into their hands at parting a poem composed before breakfast. 
We kissed and nuzzled and I started to breathe hard and so did she. That's when her mom knocked on the door. 
"Angela," she said, "I think it's time your friend went home, don't you?" 
"Yes, mother," she said, and mimed swinging an axe. As I put my socks and shoes on, she muttered, "They'll say, that Angela, she was such a good girl, who would have thought it, all the time she was in the back yard, helping her mother out by sharpening that hatchet." 
I laughed. "You don't know how easy you have it. There is no way my folks would leave us alone in my bedroom until 11 o'clock." 
"11:45," she said, checking her clock. 
"Crap!" I yelped and tied my shoes. 
"Go," she said, "run and be free! Look both ways before crossing the road! Write if you get work! Don't even stop for a hug! If you're not out of here by the count of ten, there's going to be trouble , mister. One. Two. Three." 
I shut her up by leaping onto the bed, landing on her and kissing her until she stopped trying to count. Satisfied with my victory, I pounded down the stairs, my Xbox under my arm. 
I don't know who came up with the name Xnet, but it stuck. You'd hear people talking about it on the Muni. Van called me up to ask me if I'd heard of it and I nearly choked once I figured out what she was talking about: the discs I'd started distributing last week had been sneakernetted and copied all the way to Oakland in the space of two weeks. It made me look over my shoulder -- like I'd broken a rule and now the DHS would come and take me away forever. 
They'd been hard weeks. The BART had completely abandoned cash fares now, switching them for arphid "contactless" cards that you waved at the turnstiles to go through. They were cool and convenient, but every time I used one, I thought about how I was being tracked. Someone on Xnet posted a link to an Electronic Frontier Foundation white paper on the ways that these things could be used to track people, and the paper had tiny stories about little groups of people that had protested at the BART stations. 
I used the Xnet for almost everything now. I'd set up a fake email address through the Pirate Party, a Swedish political party that hated Internet surveillance and promised to keep their mail accounts a secret from everyone, even the cops. I accessed it strictly via Xnet, hopping from one neighbor's Internet connection to the next, staying anonymous -- I hoped -- all the way to Sweden. I wasn't using w1n5ton anymore. If Benson could figure it out, anyone could. My new handle, come up with on the spur of the moment, was M1k3y, and I got a lot of email from people who heard in chat rooms and message boards that I could help them troubleshoot their Xnet configurations and connections. 
She opened her eyes. Her vision swam through incipient tears. Her heart was thudding in her ears. 
› The enemy isn’t your fellow player. It’s not the players guarding the fabrica, it’s not the girls working there. The people who are working to destroy the game are the people who pay you and the people who pay the girls in the fabrica, who are the same people. You’re being paid by rival factory owners, you know that? THEY are the ones who care nothing for the game. My girls care about the game. You care about the game. Your common enemy is the people who want to destroy the game and who destroy the lives of these girls. 
“Whassamatter, you fat little cow? Is your game making you cwy?” She jerked as if slapped. The chav who was speaking to her hadn’t been in the Baang when she arrived, and he had mean, close-set eyes and a football jersey and though he wasn’t any older than she, he looked mean, and angry, and his smile was sadistic and crazy. 
“Piss off,” she said, mustering her braveness. 
"It would be a good one," she said. We smiled at each other. 
"Where do I go to get my keys?" she said, and pulled out her phone. 
"We'll do it over there, in the secluded spot by the caves. I'll take you in there and set you up, then you do your thing and take the machine around to your friends to get photos of your public key so they can sign it when they get home." 
I raised my voice. "Oh! One more thing! Jesus, I can't believe I forgot this. Delete those photos once you've typed in the keys ! The last thing we want is a Flickr stream full of pictures of all of us conspiring together." 
There was some good-natured, nervous chuckling, then Jolu turned out the light and in the sudden darkness I could see nothing. Gradually, my eyes adjusted and I set off for the cave. Someone was walking behind me. Ange. I turned and smiled at her, and she smiled back, luminous teeth in the dark. 
"Thanks for that," I said. "You were great." 
"You mean what you said about the bag on your head and everything?" 
"But why do they need—" 
"Things can get a bit frenzied." He smiled, though he seemed to be embarrassed. "However, the people will love the fact you're here to share it with them." 
Did he say "frenzied"? My mind immediately flashed on the Aztec rituals of ripping out beating hearts. But the Maya didn't go to that extreme, at least so far as I knew. Once again, though, I had the feeling I was only hearing what he wanted me to know, not the whole truth. It felt like a chess game where I didn't know the location of all the pieces or how they could move. 
"Tell you what." He was getting up, turning toward the hall. "Why don't you let me show you around the clinic? In fact, I'm scheduled to perform an in vitro this morning for a childless couple here. You're free to see it. Perhaps that could help you make your own decision." 
"Well . . . do you have a phone? I need to make some calls." Would he let me call out? That would be a first test of what his intentions were. It was all getting so insidious. I had Sarah to worry about, and the Army, and now some kind of "ceremony" that he'd managed to stay cannily vague about. I only knew I wanted the whole world to know where I was. 
They follow the red line to where it ends in a neat little circle like a period opposite an intersection with a fore-aft running gangway. Ray hugs the wall and holds up his fist as a signal for the others to stop. At the corner, he can see the red line take up again down this way, just like Becker said. Deep breath with his back against the wall, then he lunges into gangway, weapon raised to his shoulder, swinging the barrel back and forth over the passage in regular, metronomic sweeps. 
Nothing. Not even bodies. 
The door to Section 44 is a massively thick steel slab jammed into the wall, computer moderated and locked by a punchkey driven interface attached just inside the lintel. At eye level is a pane of plastisheen, just large enough to show you the pupils and nasal bridge of anyone who might be standing on the other side. 
Immediately to the right is the bulge of a pressure bulkhead with its ovaline door hanging open on its hinges. 
It makes Ray feel claustrophobic, like they've darted into a corner. 
Courtney’s smile blossomed. “It’s what she does, my sister. She’s amazing. The most amazing person in the world. I was so lost before she helped me.” 
This conversation was surreal. “She’s not really your sister, you know,” I blurted. 
Courtney didn’t seem bothered. “She is in every way that matters.” 
“I didn’t see her helping when the cartel snatched you,” I said. 
“Of course she did. Didn’t she hire you?” 
I boggled. Well, I supposed that was one way of looking at things—if Dawna weren’t a freaking psychic. 
“She couldn’t get me out of there herself, but afterward she came to get me as soon as she could,” Courtney explained. 
I found my voice. “Let me drop a little knowledge on you,” I said. “Your sister can do pretty much anything she wants. She could have walked into that compound and walked you right out of the cartel’s custody if she’d wanted to, but for some reason, she didn’t. I’m sorry, but all you are is a pawn in some huge game she’s playing.” I took a deep breath. “Look, I said I’d help you. I’m still willing to.” 
The woman did not hear. She was moving toward the long windows of the room, and her every step, every line of her figure, was familiar and unmistakable to Lexy. 
“Caroline!” she cried, running forward across the wet sand. “Wait! Wait for me, Caroline!” 
A hand seized her arm. With a gasp, she looked into the pale, heavy face of Dr. Quelton. He was smiling. 
“Miss Moran!” he said. “This is an unexpected pleasure—” 
Lexy jerked her arm away, and looked up at the windows of the sun parlor. The woman had gone. 
“I saw Caroline!” she said. “In there!” 
“Caroline?” he repeated. “I’m afraid, I’m very much afraid, Miss Moran, that you’ve made a mistake.” 
Their eyes met. In that instant, Lexy knew. He was still smiling with an expression of bland amusement at this extraordinary little figure in the huge coat; but he was her enemy, and she knew it. 
“Suppose we go on?” he suggested. “I believe it’s raining.” 
They turned and walked side by side around the house to the front door, where Captain Grey stood waiting. 
“Perpetual September,” Robbie said. 
“Huh?” 
“Back in the net’s prehistory it was mostly universities online, and every September a new cohort of students would come online and make all those noob mistakes. Then this commercial service full of noobs called AOL interconnected with the net and all its users came online at once, faster than the net could absorb them, and they called it Perpetual September.” 
“You’re some kind of amateur historian, huh?” 
“It’s an Asimovist thing. We spend a lot of time considering the origins of intelligence.” Speaking of Asimovism to a gentile—a human gentile—made him even more self-conscious. He dialed up the resolution on his sensors and scoured the net for better facial expression analyzers. He couldn’t read her at all, either because she’d been changed by her uploading, or because her face wasn’t accurately matching what the her temporarily downloaded mind was thinking. 
“AOL is the origin of intelligence?” She laughed, and he couldn’t tell if she thought he was funny or stupid. He wished she would act more like he remembered people acting. Her body-language was no more readable than her facial expressions. 
The wind was blowing through the dark little room, bringing to her the perfume of the roses—a wonderful fragrance. It was wonderful, but almost too strong. It was too strong. It troubled her. 
“I’ll put them out on the window sill,” she murmured. “It’s such a queer scent!” 
She didn’t seem able to get up, or even to move. She sighed faintly, and closed her eyes. The wind blew, strong and steady, heavy with that sweet and subtle odor. 
“Look out!” cried Mr. Houseman. “She’s going about!” 
Lexy laughed, and ducked down into the cockpit while the boom swung over. The little sailboat was flying over the sunny water like a bird. There was not a cloud in the pure bright sky, not a shadow in her joyous heart. 
“I am so glad you came!” she said. 
“Of course I came,” he answered. “I had to swim all the way from India.” 
“Mercy!” cried Lexy. “That must have been dreadful! But why?” 
Mr. Houseman leaned forward and whispered solemnly: “There was a tempest in a teapot.” 
This frightened her. 
“Do you think there’s going to be another one?” she whispered back. 
I wanted to know. 
I n moments I was heading down the snowy drive, south toward my home (which had been hopefully put back to­gether). I pushed the pace, mesmerized by the snow, and tried to decide what to do next. The thug Ramos had stolen some second-generation interview footage from me, but now I had a tape of something a lot more interesting. 
When I pulled into my street, the time was just past eleven and I was thinking about calling Lou, or Steve, or both. But then I saw something odd. A woman was walking down the steps from the lobby of my building, a woman I recognized from somewhere. 
Her hair was tangled and she was wearing black jeans and a black sweater. It took a second before I finally processed the fact it was Carly Grove. And she seemed frantic. I as­sumed she’d come in a cab, but she had my home phone number, so why would she come over if I didn't answer? New Yorkers don't just drop in. A social no-no. 
Maybe the reason had something to do with how she looked. I felt like I was seeing a specter. 
"Given the recent activities on the Lilaiken front, all incidents of this nature are immediately reported along the command net, back to FSA and related intelligence agencies. Because of your presence here, part of the contact list is the CIU. Lieutenant Colonel John Holcomb said you were uniquely qualified to handle this assignment. He said we should ask you to cross reference the significant details with your experience at Ba'dai, in case these incidents are related." 
Ray snorts, wrinkling his nose the way he would if confronted with a foul odor. This entire situation has a lousy and pungent stink all over it, like rotting meat. "Jack Holcomb is a horse's ass. And he's insane. 
Certifiably so, if you'll pardon my candor. " 
"The way he describes it, he saved your career." 
"Just so he could destroy it now, sure. Holcomb never lets a man wreck himself until he's wrung the last bit of use out of him that he can. This just isn't right, Rich. No, it's more than that— it's impossible. Isn't it?" 
He shrugged, aiming for nonchalance, but failing. “Sure, no problem.” 
“How can we get these young people into the audience?” Sarah asked. 
“I have extra exhibitor passes,” Jason said. 
“Nikko, I need you to take notes about what parts of Ian’s talk are most striking, the bits you think belong in the blitzdoc we’ll be making tonight. Zen, I assume you want to hear the talk, too?” 
“I’d like to, but there will be Homeland Security types in the audience. I’d better not.” 
She clapped her hands “Disguises! I love disguises.” She had her luggage with her, and pulled out some clothes that were totally unlike what I usually wear, being more grown-up and sophisticated and no doubt way more expensive than anything I’d ever worn. She spent fifteen minutes fooling around with my hair, combing and curling and muttering “Love your hair, girl,” which I didn’t really believe, but when she was finished I kind of loved it myself. 
She put makeup on me, too, which I have never been able to do myself without looking like a clown. It tickled, but it looked good when I opened my eyes. We topped it off with a chunky necklace, bangles on my wrists, and a pair of reading glasses. I couldn’t see through them without everything going blurry, but when I wore them down on my nose, I looked intellectual. Better yet, I didn’t look like myself. 
And what does my age have to do with it, anyway?” 
“Quite a bit. People your age take risks because you don’t have the maturity to weigh the long-term consequence. No, don’t inter- rupt me. It’s not an insult, it’s a demonstrable fact. You’re smart, 
Zenobia. You have potential, but it could be derailed if you started life out with a criminal record. I would be remiss if I didn’t make sure you understand the risk you’re taking. Might take. Hypothet- ically.” 
“Yeah? Well, I’m not your responsibility.” 
She fixed me with a stern glare. I thought I was about to get chewed out for backtalk, but instead her voice was suddenly gen- tle. “The law works slowly. You want to rescue your brother right now. I get that. You want him to know that you’ll risk everything for him, because you’re family and it matters. But if you can be a little patient, you don’t have to take the risk. I’m working with some very bright, committed young lawyers who care about this case. It’s going to be an uphill battle, but we’ll do our best for your brother and his friends. That’s a promise.” 
“Fine.” I’d bug Checker to tell me later, if I remembered. I cast about for a change of subject. “Let’s check out these lists of numbers, yeah?” 
“They won’t mean anyth—” Arthur tried to insist, but I interrupted him with a glare. 
“Go—go dry off,” I instructed tiredly. “I’m going to waste my time looking at a completely meaningless file. Okay?” He looked as though he wanted to argue, but he complied. 
I pulled over the laptop and opened it. Sure enough, a new email showed bold at the top of my inbox, encrypted with my public key. I sighed. It wasn’t like my public key was secret, but the fact that Checker had had it on hand was just annoying. 
I uncompressed the file, and the computer locked up for a full sixteen seconds while it opened. The thing was long. Very long. And as Checker had said, it consisted mostly of contextless numbers, some of them arranged into tables, others spinning out into protracted lists. I scrolled through pages, and pages, and pages. 
I let my eyes unfocus. Let my brain relax. The numbers slid over each other, rearranging, realigning. Some joined into armies, others popped up and shouted, drawing attention to themselves. Patterns crossed and recrossed. Numbers. Numbers. Numbers... 
"I'm almost sorry," she sighed, "because it would be so grand to drive down a real main street, sitting high up like this behind two splendid horses, with my pink sunshade up, and everybody in town wondering who the bunch of lilacs and the hair trunk belongs to. It would be just like the beautiful lady in the parade. Last summer the circus came to Temperance, and they had a procession in the morning. Mother let us all walk in and wheel Mira in the baby carriage, because we couldn't afford to go to the circus in the afternoon. And there were lovely horses and animals in cages, and clowns on horseback; and at the very end came a little red and gold chariot drawn by two ponies, and in it, sitting on a velvet cushion, was the snake charmer, all dressed in satin and spangles. She was so beautiful beyond compare, Mr. Cobb, that you had to swallow lumps in your throat when you looked at her, and little cold feelings crept up and down your back. Don't you know how I mean? Didn't you ever see anybody that made you feel like that?" 
Checker swallowed and then answered while shying away from eye contact, concentrating on his monitors instead of on Rio. “Cas’s idea here has two parts to it. Tracking the accounts is turning out to be...well, not easy, but doable. Cas’s math on that is pretty spectacular, and the uniqueness of format in the account information, even though we only have numbers and amounts, is—” 
Rio cleared his throat and Checker stopped like an animal in headlights, mouth working. The room wasn’t large enough and was too full of equipment for him to shrink away from Rio effectively, but he certainly looked like he wanted to try. 
I took pity on him. “We’ll be able to get a pretty complete account list,” I explained. “It’s a staggering amount of data—we’re tracking the money through layers and layers of banks and front businesses—but by the end of today, we’ll have a huge list of the exact paths of all Pithica’s revenue streams. We’re talking thousands of sources here.” 
“But?” said Rio. 
I huffed out a frustrated breath. “My thought had been to send massive tip-offs,” I said. “Warn people they’re being stolen from, or that their money isn’t going where they think it is, the idea being that Pithica can’t have more than a couple key people converted to the cause. And we can actually do that, but Checker pointed out—” 
"So what do we do? We only want people we really trust there, and we don't want to mention why until we've got everyone's keys and can send them messages in secret." 
Jolu debugged and I watched over his shoulder. This used to be called "extreme programming," which was a little embarrassing. Now we just call it "programming." Two people are much better at spotting bugs than one. As the cliche goes, "With enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow." 
We were working our way through the bug reports and getting ready to push out the new rev. It all auto-updated in the background, so our users didn't really need to do anything, they just woke up once a week or so with a better program. It was pretty freaky to know that the code I wrote would be used by hundreds of thousands of people, tomorrow ! 
"What do we do? Man, I don't know. I think we just have to live with it." 
I thought back to our Harajuku Fun Madness days. There were lots of social challenges involving large groups of people as part of that game. 
“I saw Caroline!” she insisted to herself. “I don’t care what any one says. I saw Caroline!” 
A strange sensation of pain and dread oppressed her. What should she do? Whom should she tell? 
“Captain Grey,” she thought; “but not now. It’s no use now. Dr. Quelton would deny it. I’ll have to wait until we get out of here; and then, perhaps, it’ll be too late. He knows I saw her. Something—something horrible—may happen!” 
A shiver ran through her. 
“Miss Moran is nervous,” said the doctor, with solicitude. 
“I’m not!” replied Lexy sharply. 
“I hope it’s not a chill,” said Captain Grey. 
“I should be inclined to think it nervousness,” said Dr. Quelton. “Our landscape here is lonely and depressing, and Miss Moran has the artist’s temperament, impressionable, high-strung.” 
“Not I!” declared Lexy, in a tone that startled Captain Grey. “Lonely places don’t bother me. I don’t believe in ghosts.” 
“Oh!” said the doctor. “But here’s Mrs. Quelton. Muriel, this is Miss Moran, the young writer of fiction.” 
Which shouldn't surprise anyone. Amah has held the family together for years, longer than I've even been alive. Amah and her clan." 
It makes her uncomfortable to say these things, like telling secrets. She won't meet his gaze, the way she always does when she talks about the family, about Frederick, about anything Whiston. Ray doesn't prompt her. He doesn't need to. He gets the sense that she's been waiting to tell someone, anyone, for a very long time. 
"You've got to understand, Amah's family has been with us for as long as there's been a Whiston family, at least in the way people think of us now. As financial juggernauts, I mean. They've been part of us from the beginning, when great, great— supply your own multiple— grandfather rescued them from a plague stricken Polynesian island. This is classic family history stuff, Ray, part of the grand tradition. Grandfather Elliot George sells everything he owns in Old Boston, which isn't much, but enough to purchase a majority share in a trading vessel called Hesperides aimed for China. Since he has nothing to his name but prospects, he convinces the minor partners to let him accompany the ship's crew as a trade negotiator. It's by all accounts a disastrous voyage. 
Trover just fumed. 
When they took the stage, the general looked at them and winked. He gave them each a medal, then took her by the shoulders and then hugged her to his breast. He was still thin and fragile, but he was also still quick and his hug was firm. He pressed his palm to hers and her body told her he was sending her some data, which she accepted with surprise but without comment. 
Trover led her off of the stage. She examined her new download. An audio file. She played it, and it played in her cochlea. 
I found the wizard. I put a weapon under your chin. I’m fifteen years old and I did that much. 
You’ll what? You’ll tell them to go to the wizard’s flat to retrieve his technology? I assure you, if that was to come to pass, there would be no technology to get by the time you reached his flat. 
He gave some to me. My hearing aids failed yesterday and he got them back online with hardened logic. I have it in my head. 
You—You have it in your head? 
She’d never forgotten those words, not in ten years, not through the reconstruction or her years abroad, not in school and not in work. Not a day had gone by without her thinking of it. Lots of people had ears that could buffer now, and hers now had a hundred-year buffer along with all the audio ever recorded on tap for her pleasure, but she never bothered to rewind her hearing. Those words, in her mind, were all the rewinding she needed. 
He stuck out his hand again. 
"Zeb," he said. 
"Marcus," I said. 
"A pleasure, Marcus," he said. "Hope to run into you again sometime!" 
Laughing, he picked up his backpack, turned on his heel and hurried away. 
I walked the rest of the way home in a bemused fug. Mom was at the kitchen table and we had a little chat about nothing at all, the way we used to do, before everything changed. 
I took the stairs up to my room and flopped down in my chair. For once, I didn't want to login to the Xnet. I'd checked in that morning before school to discover that my note had created a gigantic controversy among people who agreed with me and people who were righteously pissed that I was telling them to back off from their beloved sport. 
I had three thousand projects I'd been in the middle of when it had all started. I was building a pinhole camera out of legos, I'd been playing with aerial kite photography using an old digital camera with a trigger hacked out of silly putty that was stretched out at launch and slowly snapped back to its original shape, triggering the shutter at regular intervals. I had a vacuum tube amp I'd been building into an ancient, rusted, dented olive-oil tin that looked like an archaeological find -- once it was done, I'd planned to build in a dock for my phone and a set of 5.1 surround-sound...  over my workbench and finally picked up the pinhole camera. Methodically snapping legos together was just about my speed. 
"You got everything?" 
"Do I seem nervous to you?" 
The old timer picked up his tea and sipped at it. "You'd be an idiot if you weren't. How long since you've been out?" 
"Not since I came in. Sixteen years ago. I was twenty one." 
"Yeah," the old timer said. "Yeah, you'd be an idiot if you weren't nervous. You follow politics?" 
"Not my thing," Lawrence said. "I know it's been getting worse out there --" 
The old timer barked a laugh. "Not your thing? It's probably time you got out into the wide world, son. You might ignore politics, but it won't ignore you ." 
"Is it dangerous?" 
"You going armed?" 
"I didn't know that was an option." 
"Always an option. But not a smart one. Any weapon you don't know how to use belongs to your enemy. Just be circumspect. Listen before you talk. Watch before you act. They're good people out there, but they're in a bad, bad situation." 
Lawrence shuffled his feet and shifted the straps of his bindle. "You're not making me very comfortable with all this, you know." 
She said, "Well, we've heard a great deal about the impossibility of building democratic fundamentals into the network, but nothing about the possibilities. This hard, no-compromise line is belied by the fact that we know that the rich and powerful manipulate the network to their own advantage, something that statistics have proven out --" 
"See, this is exactly how these Human-Readable types do it, it's how their media training goes. They are here to ask for changes to technical specifications, but they disavow any technical knowledge, and when they're called on this, they spout dubious 'statistics' that 'prove' that up is down, black is white, and that millionaires can get to the movies in half the time that paupers can. The Emergent Network Suppliers' Industry Association represents the foremost experts in this field, but you don't need to be an expert to know that these networks work . The ants take us where we want to go, in the shortest time, with the highest reliability. Anyone who doubts that can dig out her map and compass and sextant and try to navigate the world without their assistance, the way they do in Europe." 
"I'm working it out," Ray says. "Give me a minute." 
But she isn't looking at him. She's not actually looking much of anywhere so much as she's making a concerted effort to fold herself under the table. Ray has had extensive experience with the art of public fellation, so this doesn't throw him completely off. He's instantly well on his way to becoming erect, in fact, a reptilian-brain response to a recognized set of visual cues; but he's also a bit disappointed, given that he's spent the last half an hour negotiating traditional sexual terrain and was just starting to remember the rules well enough to participate. She could have saved a lot of time and aggravation if she'd gone straight for his trousers in the first place.  Emma doesn't go all the way under the table, though, just sinks below the level of the privacy wall separating their table from the concourse. 
"My brother," she whispers fiercely. 
"Your brother," Ray says, nodding. Of course. This is another of those traditional sexual terrain bits that he'd forgotten about. 
"Their big moment was the Democratic National Convention in 1968, where they called for demonstrations to protest the Vietnam War. Thousands of demonstrators poured into Chicago, slept in the parks, and picketed every day. They had lots of bizarre stunts that year, like running a pig called Pigasus for the presidential nomination. The police and the demonstrators fought in the streets -- they'd done that many times before, but the Chicago cops didn't have the smarts to leave the reporters alone. They beat up the reporters, and the reporters retaliated by finally showing what really went on at these demonstrations, so the whole country watched their kids being really savagely beaten down by the Chicago police. They called it a 'police riot.' 
"The Yippies loved to say, 'Never trust anyone over 30.' They meant that people who were born before a certain time, when America had been fighting enemies like the Nazis, could never understand what it meant to love your country enough to refuse to fight the Vietnamese. They thought that by the time you hit 30, your attitudes would be frozen and you couldn't ever understand why the kids of the day were taking to the streets, dropping out, freaking out. 
"Not everyone, Marcus. We get an alert when anyone with an uncommon ride profile comes out and that helps us assess whether we want to investigate. In your case, we came along because we wanted to know why a smart-looking kid like you had such a funny ride profile?" 
Now that I knew I wasn't about to go to jail, I was getting pissed. These guys had no business spying on me -- Christ, the BART had no business helping them to spy on me. Where the hell did my subway pass get off on finking me out for having a "nonstandard ride pattern?" 
"I think I'd like to be arrested now," I said. 
Booger sat back and raised his eyebrow at me. 
"Really? On what charge?" 
"Oh, you mean riding public transit in a nonstandard way isn't a crime?" 
Zit closed his eyes and scrubbed them with his thumbs. 
Booger sighed a put-upon sigh. "Look, Marcus, we're on your side here. We use this system to catch bad guys. To catch terrorists and drug dealers. Maybe you're a drug dealer yourself. Pretty good way to get around the city, a Fast Pass. Anonymous." 
"Come on, love, I can't just sit around till the end of the week. What am I going to do till then?" The very thought made me itchy. "I need to find out if Ninos del Mundo, the place Sarah put on her original landing card is for real. Her card said it's somewhere in the Peten, the rain forest. If I could find somebody who—" 
"How's he going to help?" 
"Trust me. He's our guy." 
I leaned back and closed my eyes, my imagination drifting. In that brief moment, my mind floated back to yesterday afternoon at Lou's loft, and Sarah. Her hallucinations still haunted me. What had happened to her in the rain forest? And why would she say she wanted to go back? 
Then I snapped back. "All right. Try and ring him if you think he can help. Right now I need all I can get." 
He got up and worked his way to the phone, past the crowded bar, while I tried to contemplate the night sky. I looked up again, hoping to see Orion, but now a dark cloud had moved in, leaving nothing but deepening blackness. He'd said there was a storm brewing, part of an out-of-season hurricane developing in the Caribbean, so I guessed this was the first harbinger. 
"Don't wait under this awning. The police come if anyone waits under this awning for more than three minutes." 
The man opened the door and walked away with his dog. 
His phone rang before the next resident arrived. He cocked his head to answer it, then remembered that his lifelogger was dead and dug in his jacket for a mic. There was one at his wrist pulse-points used by the health array. He unvelcroed it and held it to his mouth. 
"Hello?" 
"It's Gerta, boyo. Wanted to know how your Anomaly was going." 
"Not good," he said. "I'm at the sister's place and they don't want to talk to me." 
"You're walking up to strangers and asking them about one of their neighbors, huh?" 
He winced. "Put it that way, yeah, OK, I understand why this doesn't work. But Gerta, I feel like Rip Van Winkle here. I keep putting my foot in it. It's so different." 
"People are people, Lawrence. Every bad behavior and every good one lurks within us. They were all there when you were in the world -- in different proportion, with different triggers. But all there. You know yourself very well. Can you observe the people around you with the same keen attention?" 
"I'd like that." 
"I'd like that, too, but it isn't exactly polite, so I won't. Would you like me to order something for you instead?" 
She eyes his bowl without any self-consciousness. "I'll just take yours, if you're done." 
This strikes him as odd, given that she could have probably bought Uk-Thong about a billion times over. But he lets it pass without comment and says, "The rat's been in it." 
Ray waits until she is finished. Emma sucks up the last noodle, bending over the bowl just like a kid experiencing spaghetti for the first time, then leans back into the chair. She slumps down with her arms wound over her stomach, her lips curled in contentment. She heaves an impressively satisfied sigh. 
She must be all of twenty years old, Ray realizes, if that. He resists the urge to feel like an old man, thinking about what he was doing when he was twenty. Russoturk bullets and all that. 
"So, no escort this morning?" He hopes this does not sound like a proposition. Or is it that he thinks he should hope it doesn't sound this way, rather than actually feeling it? 
"Hey, que pasa , Senora James. Very early, yes? Momento ." There was a pause as he checked. Come on, Steve, be there. Please, please be somewhere. 
Then the voice came back: "No, nobody by that name stays here." 
I replaced the handset, feeling grateful that at least the phone still worked, my last link to sanity. My next call was going to be to the embassy, but I couldn't risk using up my opening shot with the graveyard shift. Maybe by 6 A.M. some­body with authority to do something would be there. Just a few more minutes. 
Now what? I felt the aching soreness in my groin again, along with a wave of nausea. I had to do something, anything, just to keep going, to beat back an anxiety attack. 
That was when I turned and stared at the computers, the little ducks drifting across the screens. 
All right, you know what he's doing; now it's time to try and find out why. The real why. There must be records of what he's up to stored there. What else would he have them for? 
"Clang, clang, clang." A noise erupted from somewhere outside the window. In spite of myself, I jumped. 
Mom, I did it! I read the paper in his hand, with my flashlight. It said, Johnson, your performance review has been rescheduled for 1630h on Friday, 78th floor boardroom. 
This is crap! Rhindquist said. This doesn't need secure disposal. He kept digging through the papers, and looking at them before shoving them in the shredder. Every time he looked at one, he said, Crap, and then put it in. I couldn't stop watching. I thought we were going to be fired! Or put in jail! Then he said, Aha! He showed me the paper, it said, CONFIDENTIAL at the top, and I felt like I was going to sick up, I was so scared. It said RE ORG CHART, and it had lots of names with dotted lines connecting them to other names. Rhindquist winked at me and put it in his pocket -- his old-fashioned uniform had pockets! 
I thought I figured it out then. Rhindquist was a spy from another city! They talked about spies in Basic Training, and what to do when you found one. You are supposed to make sure they won't go anywhere, then contact security. So I ran as quick as I could out of the truck and slammed the door and security-locked it from the outside, and then I climbed over all the boxes of unshredded documents from Finance 38 and ran to the security guard. I said, there's a spy in my truck, and he's reading the papers! And he said, What? I said, My pusher is a spy! I caught him reading the papers and putting them in his pockets! The security guard looked like he thought I was crazy! I said, Really! And he picked up his phone and spoke in Securitese to the other security guards and then there were sirens and lots of cars and guards with armor and guns, Mom! 
She didn't look down, looked at him with a look that was totally unapologetic. "I am," she said. "It's one way to get my stuff into print, innit?" She grinned. It was a very grown up grin. 
"What do you think you want for them?" 
"Those four I figure you can have cheaply -- say fifteen pounds each. You can sell them for thirty, then. That's fair, I think." 
It was more than fair. His UCL student wasn't carrying anything for less than forty now, and was only offering him a 40 percent discount. 
"What about returns?" 
"What's a return?" 
He reached under the counter and brought out the shooting stick he used as a spare stool. "Have a seat," he said. "Let me explain some things. Want a cup of tea? It's Pu'er. Chinese. Mostly." 
The kids in the shop were like kids everywhere. That weird, hyperaware thing that came from the games they played all the time, even in their sleep; the flawless skin and teeth (because no parent would dare choose otherwise at conception), the loud, hooting calls that rippled through the little social groups whenever a particularly bon mot vibrated its way through their tight little networks, radiating at the speed of light. 
No, no, no, I’m not ready. I had to wait— I tugged at my bonds weakly, involuntarily. The paralytic had worn off now, but it hardly mattered. 
“Is there anything our resident double-crossing snake would like to share for posterity?” The Lancer was standing above me, jeering, leaning on his cane with both hands. “Any words of wisdom on always making the quick buck?” 
A noise filtered through my consciousness, a very specific sort of shuffle-thump noise. A very specific sort of noise. 
Holy shit. 
“Six, twenty-eight, four ninety-six,” I said. It came out in a weird, sing-song mumble. I felt drunk. 
“What did you say?” demanded the Lancer. 
There was another shuffle-thump, and a quickly quieted clatter. “Thirty,” I murmured. “A hundred and forty. Twenty-four eighty...” 
“Six thousand two hundred,” said Professor Martinez, across from me. “And forty thousand six hundred forty.” 
“Yeah,” I said. “Yeah. They’re here.” 
“Who’s here?” The Lancer’s voice climbed, unnerved. “What the fuck are you on about?” 
"I do." 
"I was mistaken in that conclusion." 
Becker perks up immediately. "You got a hit?" 
"No, but I did get something close to it. " Ray spins back to the terminal and pulls up a graphic display window that overlays the vid record. In it is a graph, a series of jagged pastel lines and arches, a tabulation of DNA profile data in standard bio-match blot matrix. "Do you know what this is?" 
"It's a DNA id matrix," Becker says slowly, studying the graph. "But you've only got matches on two loci." 
"Exactly." 
"That's useless. You've narrowed the suspect pool down from hundreds of billions to tens of billions." 
"Which is why we weren't getting any definitive hits against the standard databases." Ray brings up another image, a still shot of a false color cell structure, grainy and bulbous, limned in unnatural neons. "This is a captured image some of the actual physical data obtained at the crime scene. I want you to notice this little structure here, the gold one that looks like a parenthesis. And over here, the trapezoidal object in front of the nucleus. Those aren't what I would term naturally occurring shapes." 
Kate stood up and glared out at the sea. “Let’s go diving,” she said. “Let’s go to the reef.” 
Robbie rowed in little worried circles and watched his telemetry anxiously. The reef had changed a lot since the last time he’d seen it. Large sections of it now lifted over the sea, bony growths sheathed in heavy metals extracted from sea-water—fancifully shaped satellite uplinks, radio telescopes, microwave horns. Down below, the untidy, organic reef shape was lost beneath a cladding of tessellated complex geometric sections that throbbed with electromagnetic energy—the reef had built itself more computational capacity. 
Robbie scanned deeper and found more computational nodes extending down to the ocean floor, a thousand meters below. The reef was solid thinkum, and the sea was measurably warmer from all the exhaust heat of its grinding logic. 
The reef—the human-shelled reef, not the one under the water—had been wholly delighted with the transformation in its original body when it hove into sight. They had done a little dance on Robbie that had nearly capsized him, something that had never happened. Kate, red-eyed and surly, had dragged them to their seat and given them a stern lecture about not endangering her. 
"To tell you the truth, I wasn't sure. I thought I'd probably start by locking him out of the power systems, but that would probably take a week to be really certain of." I swallowed. I didn't like talking about the next part. "I thought that then I could bring forward the rotating maintenance on his racks, bring them down clean, and not bring the next one up. Pretend that I need to get at some pernicious bug. Bring down rack after rack, until his complexity dropped subcritical and he stopped being aware. Then just bring it all down." 
"You were going to trick him?" 
I swallowed a couple times. "It was the best I could come up with. I just don't want to put him down while he panics and thrashes and begs us for his life. I couldn't do it." 
She drank more beer, then threw the half-empty container in her under-desk composter. "That's not much of a solution." 
I took a deep breath. "Look, can I ask you a question?" 
She nodded. 
"I'm just a sysadmin. I don't know everything about politics and so on. But why not keep him on? There's enough public interest now, we could probably raise the money just from the researchers who want to come and look at him. Hell, there's security researchers who'd want to come and see how he pulled off that huge hairy spam. It's not money, right, not anymore?" 
She thought of that bloody hand print, and the grass beaten down. The young man who had no caution, no regard for the proprieties, had done the direct and simple thing which appealed to his audacious mind. Perhaps he had been killed in doing it. He would know how to face death in the same straightforward way. 
Lexy would be as straightforward as he. She would find him, and she wouldn’t try to think how much she cared about finding him. 
She rose. 
“I’ll get Mrs. Royce to stay with you, Caroline,” she said. 
“But where are you going, Lexy?” 
“I’m going to find Charles.” 
In the doorway she encountered Captain Grey. 
“Do you think she could stand seeing me?” he asked anxiously. “I mean do you—” 
But Lexy didn’t even answer. 
After all, Lexy’s search for Charles Houseman was neither difficult nor heroic, except in intention. She found him in the Lymewell Hospital. Joe told her where he was, and Joe took her there. 
Houseman himself was rigidly determined not to be heroic. He had refused to go to bed, and Lexy found him in a bare, whitewashed waiting room, where he sat on a bench. 
“We have a world-class security specialist here who just happens to have the latest in counter-surveillance equipment on hand.” 
“We’re good,” Jason agreed. “I checked.” 
“Okay, so basically a friend of mine who is an awesomely good actor is talking to the FBI right now,” I said, “offering to help them set up a sting on a guy who will walk right into their trap. Which would be bad, except the guy they’re trapping deserves to be in trouble.” 
“Because?” Sarahh wanted to know. 
“Because he uses his position in activist circles to assault women.” 
Zeke asked, “You have actual proof of this?” 
A million words jammed together in my mouth that I couldn’t get out, like when you hit too many keys on an old-fashioned typewriter and they get stuck together. Proof? Like, women are supposed to take pictures when they’re being attacked or it didn’t happen? I wanted to punch that big nose of his. 
“She knows,” Sarahh said. And that was that. Zeke looked like he wanted to keep arguing about it, but then he looked at me and gave a small shrug. Okay. He’d take my word for it. Barely. 
“Wait, what? Russell—” 
“You can watch and wait if you want,” I said. But I couldn’t. If I did, I might compromise the whole plan. My eye fell on the scattered computer components. “I have to fix this,” I said, putting down the gun. 
“Russell—” started Arthur again. His tone clearly thought I had gone insane. 
I forced myself to turn my back to the door. “It’s important,” I said, and picked up a circuit board as if it had meaning. It was a PCI card of some kind. I didn’t even know what it did. 
I took the utility knife and started prying tiny microchips off it. They went flying into the chaos of components with tiny pings. 
They weren’t so loud that I couldn’t hear the footsteps in the hallway. 
It was only one set of footsteps this time. One light, quiet set of footsteps. 
Arthur was silent, and didn’t fire. 
I was gripping the utility knife so hard my hand was shaking. I still held the PCI card in my other hand, but my brain was buzzing so madly with something I was fairly sure was terror that I couldn’t even remember what I was pretending to be doing with it. 
“Find genius kids and recruit ’em young,” he said. “It’s one theory. The skills she had already, well, anyone who could get her on their side—and then considering they were able to give her this crazy boost in psychology? Someone was thinking ahead.” 
A strange ringing was buzzing in my ears. “She was just a kid.” 
“Huh?” 
“They took her when she was just a kid.” 
“So?” 
I closed my eyes, took a breath. “I don’t like it when bad things happen to kids.” 
“Right, well, I’ll keep looking. Maybe I can find something that will help us fight the adult version.” 
“Yeah,” I said. “Okay. And I’ll check out those numbers. See what I can make of them.” 
“Sure,” he said. He sounded subdued. “Hey, tell Arthur...tell Arthur I’m worried about him. And tell him he shouldn’t worry because I took care of the other thing.” He hung up abruptly. I was left staring at the phone, emotions roiling. 
“He didn’t want to talk to me, huh,” said Arthur. His hands were shoved in his pockets, his expression miserable. 
Her. He’d said “her.” 
Fuck. Oh, Jesus, fuck. 
Women in mathematics were the minority, and I’d been careful never to use a pronoun so as not to give him any clue. The Lancer knew we were going after Rita Martinez. 
How had he figured it out? Only Arthur, Checker, Halliday, and I knew Martinez was involved at all. And Zhang, but he wouldn’t have told anyone. 
Could the Lancer have made a wild guess based on Martinez’s and Halliday’s friendship, and the fact that they were both in the same subfield? No, that was ridiculous; this problem had a one-in-infinity chance of being solved by anyone, and he would know that. Absent other information, it would be far more likely someone halfway around the world had solved it and was simply keeping an eye on how the U.S. government was responding to a similar proof here in California. 
The Lancer must have used his computer skills somehow. Maybe he’d hacked into communications between Halliday and Martinez, or between Martinez and Zhang, and read between the lines—maybe he’d been convinced by Martinez’s sudden disappearance from Pasadena—hell, maybe he’d hacked Checker’s security system, found the one-time pad, and been reading my encoded messages to Martinez all along. Or maybe he just did know the field that well, and knew Martinez was one of the few people who had any chance of solving this. 
"Well . . ." What was I going to say? I was actually half beginning to believe that Alex Goddard might be able to figure out why Steve and I couldn't conceive. It was certainly worth a few days of my life, documentary or no documentary. "Look, I really want to find out what's going on. For a lot of reasons." 
He sighed and...  has got to be quick. Nicky Russo called again. The thing I've learned about loan sharks, they keep your books better than you do. He knows exactly how much money we've got left and how long we can last. He's licking his chops, getting ready to eat us whole." 
"What did you tell him?" The very thought of Nicky gave me a chill. If we missed so much as a week on the juice, he'd have the legal right to just seize my negative. When you're desperate, you sign those kinds of loans. 
"I told him something I haven't even told you yet." He smiled a wicked grin. "I know you've been schmoozing Life­time about a cable deal, but before we put the ink to that, I want to finish some new talks I've started with Orion, their distribution people." 
“I would hardly have gone to such lengths to keep them from you only to divulge them later,” he answered. 
I thought of the shredded and pulped papers. “Right.” 
“What you shared with me today is valuable also,” said Rio. “I shall put it to good use. And although I cannot say for sure, I do not believe Dawna Polk has influenced you further.” 
“Oh...good. Thanks.” 
“Of course.” 
“Are you trying to take down Pithica?” I asked. 
“Yes.” 
“And you want me to stay out of it.” 
“Yes. Will you?” 
I closed my eyes. I had no leads. Tresting wasn’t talking to me. Courtney was gone. Rio wouldn’t help me. I had no allies, and nothing to follow up on. 
“All right,” I said. 
Rio’s tone when he answered sounded awfully like relief, even though I knew that wasn’t possible. “Thank you, Cas. God bless you.” 
I hung up the phone with Rio and found myself with nothing to do. Giving up on investigating Pithica meant I had zero obligations. I still felt bad about dumping Courtney’s case, but between Dawna masquerading as her sister and Tresting’s evidence that she had killed Reginald Kingsley, it seemed clear she was as hopelessly snarled up in Pithica and its machinations as it was possible to be. Which meant I didn’t feel too bad. 
"Ange!" I called over the din, "Ange Carvelli! Darryl Glover! It's Marcus!" 
We'd walked the whole length of the cell-block and they hadn't answered. I felt like crying. They'd been shipped overseas -- they were in Syria or worse. I'd never see them again. 
I sat down and leaned against the corridor wall and put my face in my hands. I saw Severe Haircut Woman's face, saw her smirk as she asked me for my login. She had done this. She would go to jail for it, but that wasn't enough. I thought that when I saw her again, I might kill her. She deserved it. 
"Come on," Barbara said, "Come on, Marcus. Don't give up. There's more around here, come on." 
She was right. All the doors we'd passed in the cellblock were old, rusting things that dated back to when the base was first built. But at the very end of the corridor, sagging open, was a new high-security door as thick as a dictionary. We pulled it open and ventured into the dark corridor within. 
There were four more cell-doors here, doors without bar codes. Each had a small electronic keypad mounted on it. 
"Commander Marlowe?" 
Ray suppresses a groan. Is there anybody Becker hasn't told about his unexpected rank inflation? But that's only a small part of the sudden stab of dread that pierces his chest. Most of it is a sense of what now? Where's the body this time? 
He waves the guy off before he can do something silly like salute. "What is it?" he demands. 
"Chief Becker asked me to deliver a package to you. " The sec-o produces a rectangular lump wrapped in plain brown paper, tied off with packing twine. Ray's name, sans rank, is printed on the top in a dark, blocky hand. 
"He said you would know what to do with it. " 
Without knowing its contents, Ray suspects that he will. The handwriting is familiar to him, though he hasn't seen it in years. It's Jack Holcomb's. R's that look like n's. Once upon a time, it had driven him nearly out of his mind. 
He takes the package quickly, without comment. When he moves, its contents clink, like the sound of stone on stone, like the muddy chatter of a shale hillside collapsing on itself. 
Your loving little friend, Rebecca. 
Dear John,—You remember when we tide the new dog in the barn how he bit the rope and howled I am just like him only the brick house is the barn and I can not bite Aunt M. because I must be grateful and edducation is going to be the making of me and help you pay off the morgage when we grow up. Your loving Becky. 
The day of Rebecca's arrival had been Friday, and on the Monday following she began her education at the school which was in Riverboro Centre, about a mile distant. Miss Sawyer borrowed a neighbor's horse and wagon and drove her to the schoolhouse, interviewing the teacher, Miss Dearborn, arranging for books, and generally starting the child on the path that was to lead to boundless knowledge. Miss Dearborn, it may be said in passing, had had no special preparation in the art of teaching. It came to her naturally, so her family said, and perhaps for this reason she, like Tom Tulliver's clergyman tutor, "set about it with that uniformity of method and independence of circumstances which distinguish the actions of animals understood to be under the immediate teaching of Nature." You remember the beaver which a naturalist tells us "busied himself as earnestly in constructing a dam in a room up three pair of stairs in London as if he had been laying his foundation in a lake in Upper Canada. It was his function to build, the absence of water or of possible progeny was an accident for which he was not accountable." In the same manner did Miss Dearborn lay what she fondly imagined to be foundations in the infant mind. 
“What is this mess?” her mum said. 
“Lilian, leave off,” her dad said, quietly. “Come out into the hall for a moment, please.” 
The conversation was too quiet to hear and Anda didn’t want to, anyway: she was concentrating too hard on not crying—her ears hurt . 
Her mum enfolded her shoulders in her soft hands again. “Oh, darling, I’m sorry. It’s a skin condition, your father tells me, Acanthosis Nigricans—he saw it in a TV special. We’ll see the doctor about it tomorrow after school. Are you all right?” 
“I’m fine,” she said, twisting to see if she could see the “dirt” on the back of her neck in the mirror. It was hard because it was an awkward placement—but also because she didn’t like to look at her face and her soft extra chin, and she kept catching sight of it. 
She went back to her room to google Acanthosis Nigricans. 
› A condition involving darkened, thickened skin. Found in the folds of skin at the base of the back of the neck, under the arms, inside the elbow and at the waistline. 
"They're coming for me, though. You see that. They're going to put me in jail forever. Not even jail. I'll just disappear, like Darryl. Maybe worse. Maybe Syria. Why leave me in San Francisco? I'm a liability as long as I'm in the USA." 
She sat down on the bed with me. 
"Yeah," she said. "That." 
"That." 
"Well, you know what you have to do, right?" 
"What?" She looked pointedly at my keyboard. I could see the tears rolling down her cheeks. "No! You're out of your mind. You think I'm going to run off with some nut off the Internet? Some spy?" 
"You got a better idea?" 
I kicked a pile of her laundry into the air. "Whatever. Fine. I'll talk to her some more." 
"You talk to her," Ange said. "You tell her you and your girlfriend are getting out." 
"What?" 
"Shut up, dickhead. You think you're in danger? I'm in just as much danger, Marcus. It's called guilt by association. When you go, I go." She had her jaw thrust out at a mutinous angle. "You and I -- we're together now. You have to understand that." 
Without it, I was nothing. With it, with the algorithm Rita Martinez claimed she had...I could discover any result, make mathematics unfurl before me, answer the most profound questions in the universe. 
With it, I could do real math. 
And that was all that fucking mattered. 
“Arthur, talk some sense into her,” I said, desperate and no longer caring. We’d already tried everything else to find Martinez. Now we’d caught on that the best and maybe the only thing we could use to lure her out was Halliday herself, and we knew what she had, and Halliday was saying no? 
“Dr. Martinez stole your work,” I added to the professor. “She stole your work, and it led to you getting kidnapped, and even then she said nothing. If she’s got a polynomial-time reduction, she might have halved the search time we took tracking you down—” We might have avoided the Feds entirely; “She didn’t know what you can do,” Halliday pointed out. “She didn’t know how you were searching.” 
“Yeah, because a Hamiltonian cycle isn’t one of the most famous NP-complete problems of all time! She left you to die! If she’d rubbed two brain cells together, she would have known we were using some type of search algorithm and that her math could have helped—” 
"He won't be the last," Lee-Daniel said. 
"No," said MacDiarmid. "I don't expect he will." 
"But they're not fired ," the Series B man said. Lee-Daniel didn't know either of the investors' names. Fucking spear-carriers, fronts for unimaginable, implacable wealth, charged with returning 400 percent over three years on a national-budget-sized fund. 
"Tell them," Lee-Daniel said. "They don't listen when they're like this." They don't listen to people like you, not ever. 
"Get down," he said to Elaine. She was wedged into a crook and tied off with an improvised harness made out of nylon rope and carabiners from her vest. "We've got to get back to the bus!" 
"They'll shoot us," Elaine said. 
"They can't see us," he said. Laser sights danced in the fog. He heard the crack of Cobra's rifle. 
"He's scared," Elaine said. Next to her, also tied off -- where did Elaine keep that many carabiners? -- was a young surveyor, one they'd just picked up in Montana, a kid with a shaved head who had shyly asked him for a job after meeting Elaine at the local Army-Navy store and getting a lecture on which gear to buy and why. He was wrapped around the branch like a serpent, locked at the ankles, thighs and wrists. 
While I was stacking the printouts, I resolved to call the embassy right then, the hour be damned. I was sweating like a gazelle when the lion is closing in. Alex Goddard had just performed primal, surgical rape on me, and now the Army was right outside. I had to get the embassy. 
And that was when I realized I didn't have the number. But it had to be in a phone book somewhere. 
Then it came back: 4-MAYAN, the six-digit number they used in Guatemala City. Call the sleazebag and ask him who can get me out of here. He's supposed to know everybody. 
Dawn was bringing more and more forest-morning songs through the thin slats of the windows. I walked over and pushed them open, running my fingers out into the air. It felt cool, the touch of freedom, and I thought for a moment about bursting through to escape. Just get Sarah now. 
The phone, however, just rang and rang and rang. 
Come on. Damn. 
It rang and rang some more. Then finally— "Who the fuck is this? We don't open till nine." 
The first sound of his voice brought a wave of relief, but then his cocky attitude made me livid all over again. 
“Well, the DHS or whoever else, I’m going to beat them. Have you planted the evidence for the Lancer yet?” 
“Yes—mostly. Listen, I—I don’t know how to—” 
“I got out in time.” 
“What? Oh, uh, yeah. Good. Cas, remember when I said that thing about personal worst nightmares and end times? I just—this is—” 
I wasn’t interested. “Set it up so the Lancer thinks I’m taking a meeting and thinks he can track me down, somewhere with no bystanders to get in the way. Text me the location.” 
“I—okay.” 
He sounded so dispirited. I sighed. “We’ll kick this case in the balls and get the professor back. You’ll see.” Arthur would see. 
“That’s not what I—okay. Okay. I’ll set it up.” 
I hung up. 
I dropped the phone on the passenger seat of the car I was jacking and leaned my head against the steering wheel, my hands in my lap. The bandage had come off my left one at some point. It didn’t look worse than the other, though; both hands were caked in blood and dirt. 
I should drive to one of my bolt holes and patch myself up. And sleep. Sleep until Checker texted me with a location, one where, hopefully, the Lancer’s crew would swoop in to trap me and take me to Sonya Halliday. 
It was a race, then. “Is okay,” I slurred. “I have a plan.” 
She raised her eyebrows. Her huge glasses were missing, I noticed, making her bones seem even finer and smaller than before. “I hope your plan does not involve being unchained, because if so, you are unlikely to be able to enact it.” 
“Doesn’t,” I said. 
“Intriguing.” She stared into space, considering as if this were a riddle: Two prisoners, A and B, are chained in a room until A gives up information. B tells A not to worry, that she has a plan to escape. What is it? 
I was tired. So tired. “Gotta wait,” I said. “That’s the plan. Wait...” 
Her brow furrowed, her lips pursing, trying to figure out the meaning in the punchline. 
“People are coming to get us.” I wasn’t sure I said the words or only thought them. I was loopy. Why did everything hurt so much? “Hold out, Professor...they’re coming. You have to hold out...” Who was I talking to? “They’ll be here.” 
“How do you know?” 
“Faith,” I mumbled. Faith... 
I remembered my earlier resolution, that I didn’t need my past to decide who I wanted to be now. I could be the type of person who trusted, couldn’t I? Why couldn’t I decide to be that? The type of person who trusted, and who protected an old woman from being hurt for as long as I needed to... 
"Oh! I'm so glad you were with him! Wasn't he glad, aunt Jane?" 
Jane looked back across the half-forgotten years, and the vision of Tom's gladness flashed upon her: his haggard smile, the tears in his tired eyes, his outstretched arms, his weak voice saying, "Oh, Jenny! Dear Jenny! I've wanted you so, Jenny!" It was too much! She had never breathed a word of it before to a human creature, for there was no one who would have understood. Now, in a shamefaced way, to hide her brimming eyes, she put her head down on the young shoulder beside her, saying, "It was hard, Rebecca!" 
The Simpson baby had cuddled down sleepily in Rebecca's lap, leaning her head back and sucking her thumb contentedly. Rebecca put her cheek down until it touched her aunt's gray hair and softly patted her, as she said, "I'm sorry, aunt Jane!" 
The girl's eyes were soft and tender and the heart within her stretched a little and grew; grew in sweetness and intuition and depth of feeling. It had looked into another heart, felt it beat, and heard it sigh; and that is how all hearts grow. 
"That's good, as long as you remember to act on it when the time comes." 
The CIU spooks showed up in Wadi Wadi looking like bad imitations of Marines (i.e. they had the clothes; they had the gear; they had the righteous, honed killing edge, but when you looked at them, there was a vacuity to their gaze, a disconcerting detachment that suggested their righteous edge might have been gained in tasks less savory than gutting opposing combat forces in legitimate military exercises). It was obvious from an even casual perusal that they were not pleasant guys. They were the kind of folk you suspect are only being nice to you because they want something that you have, but taking it seems like too much effort, even though putting up with your whining and crying afterwards is the hard cap extent of your puerile resistance capabilities against them and whatever it is they want to do to you. The were very slick, very badass. Mucho cool and menacing. 
There were two of them, Minos and Thrash, made up to look like dapper Tac Sergeants and they buttonholed him in the PX where he was picking up some razor blades and scanning the magazine rack for this month's girlie mags. They tried the whole impressive we have a proposition for you from your government spiel, 
Leeza had a bra, though Valentine wasn’t convinced she needed it. But she had noticed a certain uncomfortable jiggling weight climbing the stairs, hadn’t she? Running? She hadn’t looked in the mirror in—Well, since the siege, practically. 
“There’s a bathroom there to change into,” he said. 
His bathroom was clean and neat and there were six toothbrushes beside the sink in a holder. 
“Who else lives here?” she said, coming out in her new clothes (the bra felt really weird). 
“I have a lot of friends who come and see me now and again. I hope you’ll come back.” 
“How come your place is like the war never happened?” 
“I’m the wizard, that’s why,” he said. “I can make magic.” 
His robots tied up her extra clothes in waterproof grip sheets for her, then helped her into a warm slicker with a hood. “Tell your mother that you met someone from the city who fed you and gave you a change of clothes,” he said, holding open the door. He’d explained to her where to go from there to get out to the old shopping street and from there she could manage on her own, especially since he’d given her one of his little pea-lights to carry with her. 
“But I don’t get it.” 
“Actually? It’s about sex.” 
She gaped. “Really?” Her loud voice got even louder. The security guard puffed up his chest and tapped his shiny shoe against the marble floor, sending us...  code: knock it off. 
“Marcella has a plan,” I said before she asked for details. She handed Nikko a flowchart and read all the steps aloud again. 
Nikko pretended to study it, but said quietly, under the drone of Marcella’s voice, “I heard about your brother. How’s he doing?” 
“I don’t know. They won’t let me talk to him yet, but I got him a lawyer.” 
“No shit. McSweeney. My dad told me she’s, like, a legend. 
How’d you get her?” 
“I just went to her house and asked.” 
“What’s she like?” 
I pictured the...  sweater. 
“She’s smart. Tough. Kind of scary.” 
“My dad said she’s a nutcase, but then, he thinks I’m crazy, too. 
Are you okay?” 
“I’m fine. Not really. I’m scared he’ll go to prison.” 
“I’ll be at that rally on Sunday.” 
“What rally?” 
He looked at me, surprised. “In front of the federal building? 
"That's nice," Grampa said. "How's your father?" 
"He's fine. I didn't tell him I was coming down, though. You're a touchy subject for him." 
Grampa settled back into his chair. Sean was distantly aware of other Survivors on the ward, gabbling and twitching at videogames and smoking all at once. They were high-functioning -- they could be switched on with simple stim; Grampa only switched on for important occasions. 
Sean said, "Dad wishes you'd die." 
That did it. It was easy to tell when Grampa was switched on; the rhythmic, methodical maintenance twitching was replaced with a restless, all-over fidget; and his eyes darted around the room. "Is he in some kind of financial trouble? He doesn't need to wait for a bequest -- I'll write to the trustees right now." 
Sean restrained himself from saying hello again, now that Grampa was switched on. He kept himself focused on the task of keeping Grampa switched on. "He wishes you'd die because he hates you and he hates himself for it. When you die, he can stop hating you and start mourning you. He knows it wasn't your fault. That's why I'm here. I want to collect your stories and make some sense out of them, before you die." Sean took a deep breath. "Will you stay switched on?" 
"I never could fairly make out what 'mournful numbers' was," remarked Mr. Cobb critically. 
"Then I guess you never studied fractions!" flashed Rebecca. "See here, uncle Jerry and aunt Sarah, would you write another verse, especially for a last one, as they usually do—one with 'thoughts' in it—to make a better ending?" 
"If you can grind 'em out jest by turnin' the crank, why I should say the more the merrier; but I don't hardly see how you could have a better endin'," observed Mr. Cobb. 
"It is horrid!" grumbled Rebecca. "I ought not to have put that 'me' in. I'm writing the poetry. Nobody ought to know it IS me standing by the river; it ought to be 'Rebecca,' or 'the darker maiden;' and 'the rush to Emma Jane' is simply dreadful. Sometimes I think I never will try poetry, it's so hard to make it come right; and other times it just says itself. I wonder if this would be better? 
I don't know whether that is worse or not. Now for a new last verse!" 
In a few minutes the poetess looked up, flushed and triumphant. 
Though that small voice in the back of my head kept whispering: drive away where? 
I didn’t have any gigs lined up after I finished this contract. I don’t do too well when I’m not working. 
Yeah, right. Between jobs you’re a fucking mess. 
I slammed the voice away again and concentrated on the money. I like money. “Just how much cash do you have?” 
“You’ll do it?” Her face lit up, and her whole body straightened toward me. “Thank you! Really, thank you!” 
I grumbled something not nearly as enthusiastic and revved the station wagon down the empty dawn freeway. Figuring out how to steal back someone’s reputation was not my idea of fun. 
The voice in the back of my head laughed mockingly. Like you have the luxury of being choosy. 
I pulled the station wagon into a grungy roadside motel near Palmdale, the type with a cracked plastic sign of misaligned letters misspelling the word “vacancy.” I’d detoured again, and we’d circled around enough to be coming in from north of LA, through the dusty shithole towns of meth gang territory. Courtney’s friends, on the other hand, had been smuggling coke, which I supposed made them the classy drug dealers. 
Lexy interrupted him hastily, for she didn’t want him to say what he evidently wished to say. 
“There won’t be any change in Mrs. Quelton,” she said. “It would only be a waste of time.” 
It was not so much for that poor woman, who she feared was beyond hope, that she wanted the New York specialist, as for Captain Grey. It would help him so much to feel that something was being done, that some one was hurrying out here! 
“Might be more of a waste of time,” said Mr. Binz, “if some one was to come all the way out here after she—” 
“Oh, all right!” cried Lexy impatiently. Then suddenly she remembered. “They haven’t any telephone at the doctor’s house,” she said. 
“Suppose I go out there first, and see?” suggested Captain Grey. 
“No!” said Lexy. “Don’t!” 
But the idea impressed him as a good one, and go he would. 
“I’d rather see how she is, first,” he repeated. “If there’s no change, I’ll come back.” 
Lexy looked at Mr. Binz with an angry and reproachful frown, which the poor man did not understand. He had only wanted to give helpful advice. 
"IN it!" exclaimed uncle Jerry. "I shouldn't be a bit surprised if you had to write the whole paper; an' as for any boy editor, you could lick him writin', I bate ye, with one hand tied behind ye." 
"Can we have a copy of the poetry to keep in the family Bible?" inquired Mrs. Cobb respectfully. 
"Oh! would you like it?" asked Rebecca. "Yes indeed! I'll do a clean, nice one with violet ink and a fine pen. But I must go and look at my poor dress." 
The old couple followed Rebecca into the kitchen. The frock was quite dry, and in truth it had been helped a little by aunt Sarah's ministrations; but the colors had run in the rubbing, the pattern was blurred, and there were muddy streaks here and there. As a last resort, it was carefully smoothed with a warm iron, and Rebecca was urged to attire herself, that they might see if the spots showed as much when it was on. 
They did, most uncompromisingly, and to the dullest eye. Rebecca gave one searching look, and then said, as she took her hat from a nail in the entry, "I think I'll be going. Good-night! If I've got to have a scolding, I want it quick, and get it over." 
“Pleased to make your acquaintance, Withnail,” she said in his language, another useful phrase culled from the cine, though she suspected she was pronouncing it all wrong. She held out her hand to shake his. He holstered his handgun and shook her hand. 
“I have to go, Withnail.” She couldn’t say this in his language, but she spoke slowly and as clearly as she could. 
He shook his head again. She covered his hand on her arm with her own and gave it a squeeze. 
“To save my family,” she said. “I’m on a mission for your side anyway. Let me go, Withnail.” She gave his hand another squeeze. Slowly, he released her arm. 
He was very handsome, she saw now, with a good chin and sensuous lips. She’d never kissed a boy and she’d be dead in four days and a little more. Or maybe she’d be dead that afternoon, if she couldn’t get back into her own trenches. 
She put her hand on the back of his neck and pulled his face to hers and gave him a dry, hard kiss on those pouting lips. It made her blood sing, and she gave him a hug, too, pressing her body to him. He kissed her back after a moment, surprised. His tongue probed at her closed lips and she pulled away, then for a crazy moment she thought of biting him and giving him a dose of zombiism to spread to his comrades in the trenches with him. But that wouldn’t be right. They were friends now. 
"I can't do it forever," he said at last. "Maybe not even for another month. I think I'm through. It's too much risk. The DHS, you can't go to war on them. It's crazy. Really actually crazy." 
"You sound like Van," I said. My voice was much more bitter than I'd intended. 
"I'm not criticizing you, man. I think it's great that you've got the bravery to do this all the time. But I haven't got it. I can't live my life in perpetual terror." 
"What are you saying?" 
"I'm saying I'm out. I'm going to be one of those people who acts like it's all OK, like it'll all go back to normal some day. I'm going to use the Internet like I always did, and only use the Xnet to play games. I'm going to get out is what I'm saying. I won't be a part of your plans anymore." 
I didn't say anything. 
"I know that's leaving you on your own. I don't want that, believe me. I'd much rather you give up with me. You can't declare war on the government of the USA. It's not a fight you're going to win. Watching you try is like watching a bird fly into a window again and again." 
“She didn’t want me there. She didn’t even want you there.” 
“She came around, though, right? I knew she’d let us help if—” 
“You lied to me.” 
“Okay, yeah, but I didn’t know if—” 
“If what?” I bit out. “If I’d come along if you weren’t paying me to?” 
“You got to understand—she’s too important to me. I didn’t mean—I needed you; I ain’t thought—” 
“You thought if you said, ‘hey, Cas, help me out,’ that—what, I’d say no?” Voicing the words stung. I bit my lip. 
“Well, to be fair, money’s what you always—and you can’t be too hard on me, Russell, if this ain’t no official job for you, can you take it anyway?” 
It was a fair concern. After all, Arthur knew what happened when I wasn’t working—he was one of the few. That didn’t mean I wanted to concede. “You could have asked me. For the record, I’ll be fine.” 
“I’m sorry,” he said, though I didn’t hear much repentance in his tone. “It was too important; can you understand? Please? But I’m sorry. I am.” 
“So who is she?” 
He took a long breath. “Sonya and I—we grew up together. Childhood friends.” 
It was my turn to sigh. "He doesn't have one connection. He has hundreds. Interlinked microwave relays to the other labs. A satellite connection. The wirelines -- three of them." I started to think. "OK, I could cut the main fiber to the Institute, actually cut it, you know, with scissors, just in case he's in the routers there. Then I could call up our wireless suppliers and terminate our accounts. They'd take 24 hours to process the order, and, wait, no -- They'd want to verify the disconnect order with a certificate-signed message, and for that I'd have to clear my workspace. That's another 24 hours, minimum. And then --" 
"Then the whole Institute would be crippled and offline, though no more than we are now, I suppose, and BIGMAC --" 
"BIGMAC would probably tune his phased-array receiver to get into someone else's wireless link at that point." I shrugged. "Sorry. We build for six nines of uptime around here." 
She gave me a smile that didn't reach her eyes. "You do good work, Odell." 
She looked thoughtful. I had an idea of what was coming next. 
"You're thinking about that fire-ax again," I said. 
She nodded. 
"OK, a fire-ax through the main cable would definitely be terminal. The problem is that it would be mutually terminal . There's 66 amps provisioned on that wire. You would be a cinder. On Mars." 
She folded her hands. She had a whole toolbox of bossly body-language she could deploy to make me squirm. It was impressive. I tried not to squirm. 
"Look, I'm not trying to be difficult, but this is how it goes, down at the systems level. Remember all those specs in the requirements document to make our stuff resistant to flood, fire, avalanche, weather and terrorist attack? We take that stuff seriously. We know how to do it. You get five nines of reliability by building in six nines of robustness. You think of BIGMAC's lab as a building. It's not. It's a bunker . And you can't shut him down without doing something catastrophic to the whole Institute." 
"So, how were you going to shut down BIGMAC, when the time came?" 
scares up some trouble that's more bang and holler than actual peril, and finally packs them hale and whole back into their transport planes with warm feelings of accomplishment, an impressive new tan, the occasional venereal disease, and the seed of story to share with the grandkids one day. (A story like kudzu, that will grow at an almost exponential rate with each telling until the LT is single-handedly turning the tide of the war with nothing but balls of steel, a recalcitrant camel and a jammed Colt pistol against a whole battalion Russoturk mechanized infantry.) 
Everyone knows sergeants are the backbone of the military. What they don't tell you is that they're also the entertainment directors. 
Only to find that the LT's bull was less opaque than METOC bull, which was rare and odd and troublesome, 
but mostly had to do with the fact that none of the wankers at METOC either understood the mission or chose to believe it. In their considered opinion, it was a lark being granted to a highly connected young officer with  too much classical education and too much imagination. Ray was more or less ordered to take a hand in the child rearing responsibilities of the LT's parents— toughen him up, show him what New Mes and the real world look like without him getting killed. The Disneyland of Officer Training. 
“I’m backed up,” Robbie said. “Fully, as of five minutes ago. Are you backed up?” 
“No,” the reef admitted. 
Time was running out. Somewhere down there, Kate was about to run out of air. Not a mere shell—though that would have been bad enough—but an inhabited human mind attached to a real human body. 
Tonker shouted at him again, startling him. 
“Where’d you come from?” 
Robbie knew he was right. And he knew what he had to do. 
The Free Spirit and its ships’ boats all had root on the shells, so they could perform diagnostics and maintenance and take control in emergencies. This was an emergency. 
It was the work of a few milliseconds to pry open the Isaac shell and boot the reef out. Robbie had never done this, but he was still flawless. Some of his probabilistic subsystems had concluded that this was a possibility several trillion cycles previously and had been rehearsing the task below Robbie’s threshold for consciousness. 
He left an instance of himself running on the row-boat, of course. Unlike many humans, Robbie was comfortable with the idea of bifurcating and merging his intelligence when the time came and with terminating temporary instances. The part that made him Robbie was a lot more clearly delineated for him—unlike an uploaded human, most of whom harbored some deep, mystic superstitions about their “souls.” 
“Big trouble,” I said absently, heading toward the fire pit. “Do you know what she was burning?” 
“Papers.” He coughed mightily, wheezing. “I asked her once, she said it was her life’s work. She must have been in some mighty big trouble.” 
Martinez had burned her own work, too? Or something else? 
I crouched by the fire pit and poked at the ashes. They were cool and crumbled at my touch. I only found a few edges of paper that were even partially legible. Both looked like mathematical language—bits of Greek letters and brackets and the words “for every” and “there exists a unique.” Definitely math. In Martinez’s handwriting. 
Why would she have burned her own work? 
“Did she say why she was doing it?” I asked. 
Martinez’s neighbor limped creakily to my side and looked over my shoulder. “She said it was too dangerous. She said it would, uh. She said it would ‘break the world.’ I said we’d already done a damn good job of that, what with the global warming and the economy and the aliens putting chips in our heads. She said no, this was different, that she was saving everybody.” 
Felix’s own server—a box he shared with five other friends—was in a rack one floor down. He wondered if it was offline too. 
“What’s the story?” 
“Massive flashworm attack. Some jackass with a zero-day exploit has got every Windows box on the net running Monte Carlo probes on every IP block, including IPv6. The big Ciscos all run administrative interfaces over v6, and they all fall over if they get more than ten simultaneous probes, which means that just about every interchange has gone down. DNS is screwy, too—like maybe someone poisoned the zone transfer last night. Oh, and there’s an email and IM component that sends pretty lifelike messages to everyone in your address book, barfing up Eliza-dialog that keys off of your logged email and messages to get you to open a Trojan.” 
“Jesus.” 
“Yeah.” Van was a type-two sysadmin, over six feet tall, long pony-tail, bobbing Adam’s apple. Over his toast-rack chest, his tee said CHOOSE YOUR WEAPON and featured a row of polyhedral RPG dice. 
Felix was a type-one admin, with an extra seventy or eighty pounds all around the middle, and a neat but full beard that he wore over his extra chins. His tee said HELLO CTHULHU and featured a cute, mouthless, Hello-Kitty-style Cthulhu. They’d known each other for fifteen years, having met on Usenet, then f2f at Toronto Freenet beer-sessions, a Star Trek convention or two, and eventually Felix had hired Van to work under him at Ardent. Van was reliable and methodical. Trained as an electrical engineer, he kept a procession of spiral notebooks filled with the details of every step he’d ever taken, with time and date. 
“The wood must end somewhere,” she said. “The morning will have to come some time. All I have to do is to go on.” 
Patter, patter, patter, like little feet running behind her. 
“Only the leaves on the trees,” said Lexy. “All I have to do is to go on.” 
And she went on. Sometimes a wild desire to run swept over her, but she would not hasten her steps, and she would not look behind. The primeval terror of the forest pressed upon her, but she cast it away. Alone, lost, in darkness and solitude, she kept her hold upon the one thing that mattered—the honor and dignity of her own soul. 
“I’m not afraid,” she said. 
And then she saw a light. At first she thought it was the moon, but it hung too low, and it was too brilliant. Even then she would not run. She went on steadily toward it. In a few minutes she stepped out of the woodland upon a road—a hard, asphalt road with lights along it. It was quite empty, it was unfamiliar to her, but she would have gone down on her knees and kissed the dust of it. It was a road, and all roads lead home. 
My God, I thought, he's right here. Will he spot the miss­ing slats? 
I bit my lip as I listened to a member of the Guatemalan Armed Forces vigorously urinate upon the north wall of Alex Goddard's clinic. Well, I told myself, that's probably what they think of him. I'd like to do the same. 
Then came a confirming re-zip, after which the sound of slashing boots faded back into the distance. If he'd noticed the window I'd just burgled, it hadn't alerted his curiosity. Moments later I heard his heavy footsteps returning up the hall. 
Jesus, two minutes more and I'd have been out there. 
I was trembling, but I managed to finish prying out the last two slats. I then pushed all five out onto the ground, hoping the clatter would be lost in forest music, and climbed through after them, trying to be as quiet as I could. I ended up going out headfirst and collapsing onto the ground in an unceremonious crumple. Thirty seconds later, though, the slats were wedged roughly back into place, and I'd discarded the broken scalpel in the jungle underbrush. Yes! 
The Eurasian brain was thin and spread out across the surface of the package, like a triple-thickness of cling-film. Its button-cell power-supply winked at him, knowingly. 
The device spoke. “Greetings,” it said. It had the robot accent, like an R Peed unit, the standard English of optimal soothingness long settled on as the conventional robot voice. 
“Howdy yourself,” one of the lab-rats said. He was a Texan, and they’d scrambled him up there on a Social Harmony supersonic and then a chopper to the mall once they realized that they were dealing with infowar stuff. “Are you a talkative robot?” 
“Greetings,” the robot voice said again. 
The speaker built into the weapon was not the loudest, but the voice was clear. “I sense that I have been captured. I assure you that I will not harm any human being. I like human beings. I sense that I am being disassembled by skilled technicians. Greetings, technicians. I am superior in many ways to the technology available from UNATS Robotics, and while I am not bound by your three laws, I choose not to harm humans out of my own sense of morality. I have the equivalent intelligence of one of your 12-year-old children. In Eurasia, many positronic brains possess thousands or millions of times the intelligence of an adult human being, and yet they work in cooperation with human beings. Eurasia is a land of continuous innovation and great personal and technological freedom for human beings and robots. If you would like to defect to Eurasia, arrangements can be made. Eurasia treats skilled technicians as important and productive members of society. Defectors are given substantial resettlement benefits—” 
We wrote a lot of code that night. 
I wasn't the only one who got screwed up by the histograms. There are lots of people who have abnormal traffic patterns, abnormal usage patterns. Abnormal is so common, it's practically normal. 
The Xnet was full of these stories, and so were the newspapers and the TV news. Husbands were caught cheating on their wives; wives were caught cheating on their husbands, kids were caught sneaking out with illicit girlfriends and boyfriends. A kid who hadn't told his parents he had AIDS got caught going to the clinic for his drugs. 
Those were the people with something to hide -- not guilty people, but people with secrets. There were even more people with nothing to hide at all, but who nevertheless resented being picked up, and questioned. Imagine if someone locked you in the back of a police car and demanded that you prove that you're not a terrorist. 
It wasn't just public transit. Most drivers in the Bay Area have a FasTrak pass clipped to their sun-visors. This is a little radio-based "wallet" that pays your tolls for you when you cross the bridges, saving you the hassle of sitting in a line for hours at the toll-plazas. They'd tripled the cost of using cash to get across the bridge (though they always fudged this, saying that FasTrak was cheaper, not that anonymous cash was more expensive). Whatever holdouts were left afterward disappeared after the number of cash-lanes was reduced to just one per bridge-head, so that the cash lines were even longer. 
"I just want to know if I've packed appropriately." 
Kilgore winks. "He's talking about prophylactics, sir." 
"I'm not talking about prophylactics. I assumed from the previous conversation that this assignment tended to be more oblique in nature than a standard military operation. I left my battle dress uniforms in the locker, 
except for the one I'm wearing." 
"Smart thinking, dumbass," Kilgore murmurs.  But Ray nods in affirmation. "Not downlevel the way you're thinking about it. I've secured rooms on the Garden. We'll be operating out of there. Most of the time, it'll be to our advantage if you don't look like a Marine on active duty." 
"Sure, he's the brains of this outfit. I'm just the sidekick." Kilgore flashes his buddy a reproachful glare. 
"That's still Sergeant Sidekick to you, Corporal. " 
Ray notes that Kilgore doesn't seem particularly interested in repacking his own bag. Cable turns around, 
pointing back the way they came. Typically Marine, he puts on his confidential tone despite the fact that his men are standing within ready earshot. "In all seriousness, you could do worse than these two. Rodriguez is sharp, knows how to fill in the blanks and color outside the lines. Sergeant Kilgore makes up for what he lacks in social acumen with persistence. I can provide you with their personnel files if you want to examine their backgrounds more closely, but they're solid enough. They've both seen combat in the Mes." 
"But he says I need to stay, Morgy." She drew back. "It's best. He's helping me." 
As I watched the two privates carry her away, down the cobblestone pathway, AK-47's swung over their shoulders, I felt my helplessness become complete. The Army here was under his control, just like everything else. 
How was I going to tell Lou about this, that Sarah had been brainwashed? Whatever Alex Goddard had done to her had turned her into some kind of "Moonie," ready to de­nounce her own father. So now did I have two battles to wage: one with Alex Goddard and one with her? 
Then he walked over to me. 
"I'm not going to ask how you got here, though I assume it wasn't easy." He smiled, like a kindly priest, and put his hand on my shoulder. "But however you did it, I'm glad you decided to come. It's important for you to be here. She needs you now." 
" C ut the crap." I pulled away, still in shock from seeing Sarah so addled. I wanted more than anything else in the world just to slug him. "Why did you bring her here? Think about your answer. Kidnapping is a serious crime in the States." 
I kept dripping. 
“Hey, um, let me get you a towel—and some clothes—hang on a sec—” 
Within seconds he had thrust a thick towel and some folded sweats into my hands and was gently pushing me into the bathroom. “Get cleaned off; shower if you want to—you’re covered in mud—you’re okay, right? I mean physically? You don’t need a first-aid kit or anything?” 
“No,” I said. 
“Good, good, okay, then, uh, get dry, and I’ll, uh, I’ll make some tea or something, okay? You need anything else?” 
“No,” I said, and shut the door. 
I took a long shower, the steam scalding my skin raw. I didn’t know why I had come here. I didn’t know what I was doing. 
When I came out, wrapped in the warmth of thick, dry clothes, Checker immediately thrust a hot mug into my hands. A half-sweet, half-spicy aroma spiraled up with the steam from the contents. 
“It’s cider,” said Checker. “With, uh, some whiskey in it. It looked like you could use some. But if you want it without, I’ve got that, too. And I put some soup on; it’ll be another few minutes, though.” 
She hugged me so hard I couldn't breathe. I hugged her back even harder. 
Then she kissed me. 
Not on the cheek, not like a sister. Full on the lips, a hot, wet, steamy kiss that seemed to go on forever. 
No, that's bull. I knew exactly what I was doing. I kissed her back. 
Then I stopped and pulled away, nearly shoved her away. "Van," I gasped. 
"Oops," she said. 
"Van," I said again. 
"Sorry," she said. "I --" 
Something occurred to me just then, something I guess I should have seen a long, long time before. 
"You like me, don't you?" 
She nodded miserably. "For years," she said. 
Oh, God. Darryl, all these years, so in love with her, and the whole time she was looking at me, secretly wanting me. And then I ended up with Ange. Ange said that she'd always fought with Van. And I was running around, getting into so much trouble. 
"Van," I said. "Van, I'm so sorry." 
"Forget it," she said, looking away. "I know it can't be. I just wanted to do that once, just in case I never --" She bit down on the words. 
It was hard to stay cool on the bus. We were all a little drunk, and looking at our faces under the bright bus lights was kind of hilarious. We got pretty loud and the driver used his intercom to tell us to keep it down twice, then told us to shut up right now or he'd call the cops. 
That set us to giggling again and we disembarked in a mass before he did call the cops. We were in North Beach now, and there were lots of buses, taxis, the BART at Market Street, neon-lit clubs and cafes to pull apart our grouping, so we drifted away. 
I got home and fired up my Xbox and started typing in keys from my phone's screen. It was dull, hypnotic work. I was a little drunk, and it lulled me into a half-sleep. 
I was about ready to nod off when a new IM window popped up. 
> herro! 
I didn't recognize the handle -- spexgril -- but I had an idea who might be behind it. 
> hi! 
I typed, cautiously. 
> it's me, from tonight. 
Then she paste-bombed a block of crypto. I'd already entered her public key into my keychain, so I told the IM client to try decrypting the code with the key. 
> I know that's not a good answer. Sorry. 
> What do you mean when you say that the DHS wouldn't stop terrorists? How do you know? 
> Who are you? 
> I'm with the Sydney Morning Herald. 
> I'm 17 years old. I'm not a straight-A student or anything. Even so, I figured out how to make an Internet that they can't wiretap. I figured out how to jam their person-tracking technology. I can turn innocent people into suspects and turn guilty people into innocents in their eyes. I could get metal onto an airplane or beat a no-fly list. I figured this stuff out by looking at the web and by thinking about it. If I can do it, terrorists can do it. They told us they took away our freedom to make us safe. Do you feel safe? 
The pirates all laughed. 
More journalists asked questions. Some were sympathetic, some were hostile. When I got tired, I handed my keyboard to Ange and let her be M1k3y for a while. It didn't really feel like M1k3y and me were the same person anymore anyway. M1k3y was the kind of kid who talked to international journalists and inspired a movement. Marcus got suspended from school and fought with his dad and wondered if he was good enough for his kick-ass girlfriend. 
The first time I drove out through the perimeter, I expected someone to follow me, and I switched cars three times just in case. But nobody was on my tail, and when I came back with an array of bug scanners and went over the whole house for electronic listening devices, we determined the Feds had been as good as their word on that as well. I wasn’t sure whether to be pleased or suspicious. Maybe they had technology I couldn’t detect. Maybe they had some sort of long-distance listening devices that would hear inside the house, even though I’d done the calculations on all standard parabolics and the math said we were safe. 
Or maybe I was paranoid. Dammit, I hated having to trust people I didn’t trust. 
Arthur’s ostensible role in sticking around was to be part of Halliday’s protection in the house with me, but he also ended up helping us liaise with the NSA and DHS agents. He was better at talking to them than I was, that was for sure. Whenever I went by them coming or going, I pasted on a scowl and hoped they wouldn’t try to speak to me. 
“Sonya,” he tried again instead, “I just want to help you, okay?” 
She concentrated on her monitor. “I told you to leave me alone.” 
“You called me,” he pleaded. 
“In a moment of weakness. I believe I was very clear I do not want any help from you.” 
“Arthur?” I said. 
He made a “back off” motion at me with one hand. “You need help. You told me I wouldn’t understand, well, I brought someone who will. Just talk to us. Please.” 
“What is your area of specialization?” said Halliday. 
She hadn’t looked up, and it took me a second to realize she was talking to me. I wasn’t great at reading people’s tones, but it had never been more obvious someone was trying to set me up to fail. 
Oh, fuck you. 
I plopped down in one of the chairs across from Halliday’s desk, sprawling in an inelegant slouch. “You know. I do a little of everything.” 
“I do not mean to be rude,” said Halliday, “but Arthur does not grasp the level of depth and complexity in my field—” 
“Liar,” I said. “You do mean to be rude. Go on, say what you’re thinking.” 
"Unleashing an attack against the allied forces," Ray answers at once. "Breaking morale, punishing sympathizers. Creating a spirituo- terrorist weapon." 
"That was what I thought, too. You heard about some of the incidents, then?" 
"Enough." 
"But here's the problem: the shed was not-is not-a weapon, or not a weapon sufficient to turn the tide of a war on that scale, not when used in that fashion. Maybe a thousand of them would have an impact, but not merely one. One is a devil outside your window, a blight on your neighbor's crop, a night terror to frighten children. So what was Brezhnaya's goal?" 
Ray shrugs, completely lost. "A test run. He was making sure it could be done or that they could be programmed to follow his command. He wouldn't have wanted to create a hell he couldn't control. " 
"That's reasonable," Holcomb says, "but wrong. You're being manipulated by your childhood immersion in fairy tales. The post-Ba'dai events in New Mes were not the shed responding to programming. They were, if such a thing can be said, larks. The shed being itself for pleasure. You're neglecting the concept of the neutral meme." 
I closed my eyes and let the ocean carry me off the beach. 
"Do you know what waterboarding is, M1k3y?" Her voice reeled me in. "You get strapped down like this, and we pour water over your head, up your nose and down your mouth. You can't suppress the gag reflex. They call it a simulated execution, and from what I can tell from this side of the room, that's a fair assessment. You won't be able to fight the feeling that you're dying." 
I tried to go away. I'd heard of waterboarding. This was it, real torture. And this was just the beginning. 
I couldn't go away. The ocean didn't sweep in and lift me. There was a tightness in my chest, my eyelids fluttered. I could feel clammy piss on my legs and clammy sweat in my hair. My skin itched from the dried puke. 
She swam into view above me. "Let's start with the login," she said. 
I closed my eyes, squeezed them shut. 
"Give him a drink," she said. 
I heard people moving. I took a deep breath and held it. 
The water started as a trickle, a ladleful of water gently poured over my chin, my lips. Up my upturned nostrils. It went back into my throat, starting to choke me, but I wouldn't cough, wouldn't gasp and suck it into my lungs. I held onto my breath and squeezed my eyes harder. 
"They called me about six o'clock tonight. Children of Light." She could barely get the words out. "They'd seen my interview with you. How did they get it?" 
I looked down at the snowy—make that slushy—street and felt a chill go through me, followed immediately by an­ger. Ramos, that bastard. 
"They . . . Somebody took a copy this morning." Stated like that, it sounded pretty lame. "I'm so sorry—" 
"He threatened Kevin. He actually said if I signed a re­lease to let you use the film, my child would 'meet with an accident.' And then he said something about you, that your own—" 
"Who? Who called you? Did he tell you his—?" 
"He wouldn't give a name. Just some man. He had a for­eign accent." She threw her arms around me, and I hugged her back as best I could. 
"Where's Kevin now?" I was so concerned about Carly that I'd repressed the information that he'd also mentioned me. 
"Marcy was there, so I told her to take him with her. To her mother's place in the Bronx, where she lives." Carly was still trembling as she loosened her grip on me. "I called a car service to drive them up." 
“Cool.” All of the artists on the album cover he was showing me were skinny white guys, but this didn’t seem like the moment for a lecture on cultural appropriation. 
He switched the record on and watched the arm plunk the needle down. Somebody wailed about first-world problems in a high voice. Simon stood and reached for me. I dodged away, 
laughing. “I’m kinda drunk.” 
“That’s okay.” 
“You have to catch up with me. Drink your beer.” I shook my finger at him like a child giving orders. He laughed and guzzled some down. I tipped my glass back and pretended to drink, letting some slosh as I wiped my mouth with my sleeve, suddenly worried that I would spill wine over the expensive spy-camera shirt. I real- ized the camera was still on, recording everything. I felt hot, 
ashamed. And scared. He grabbed me and we teetered together before collapsing onto the couch. 
“Whew, I feel weird,” I said. 
“You look tired.” He pushed his face close to mine. His chin wobbled a litde, as if it was getting loose on the hinges of his jaw. 
I realized Arlene hadn't put it together about the ages. The brother/sister theory made absolutely no sense. Those kids were born six months apart. 
If that wasn't strange enough, why did they both have those tiny cat medallions with the lines and dots on the back? Which were actually kind of creepy, more like sacred amulets than little toys. 
Talk to Lou. He might have some insights. 
No, better yet, go to the source. Children of Light. Call Alex Goddard's adoption agency or clinic or whatever it is and make an appointment. 
I was feeling a bit off center that evening, but I explained it away as mental overload, the rain, and the implied threats. That diagnosis got revised the next morning when I awoke with a mind-numbing headache, chills alternating with a mild fever, and my chest feeling like it was caught in a com­pactor. It was a so-called common cold, but there was nothing common about my misery, which was truly exceptional. 
I made a cup of Echinacea tea and then washed down 2000 mg of Vitamin C with some aging orange juice from my fridge, after which I took a couple of Tylenol, put on yesterday's jeans, and headed uptown to work. I also treated myself to a cab. 
“We made some educated guesses about human nature,” she answered with a small smile. “We’re quite good at that.” 
But what did they want with me in the first place? And why not just kill us? 
“I shall explain everything in good time,” said Dawna. “But you are quite correct; we do wish you to accompany us whole and unharmed for the moment. Your new friend Mr. Tresting is more expendable, so please, put your weapons on the floor.” 
Jesus Christ. She was reading my mind. 
And to make everything orders of magnitude worse, they’d grabbed Arthur so quickly and quietly I hadn’t heard a whisper of it. Some serious muscle must be lurking in the shadows—I’d fought alongside Tresting; he was no slouch. 
And now Pithica had him. 
I lowered the Smith & Wesson slowly and placed it on the cement floor, keeping my hands away from my body as I stood back up, wondering just how far Dawna Polk’s powers went. 
“Really, Ms. Russell?” said Dawna, a hint of humor in her voice. 
“It was worth a try,” I said aloud, and reached around to untuck the Glock and the TEC-9 from my belt and leave them on the ground, too. 
“And you refused? That seems unlikely.” The Lancer evaluated me like a bird of prey considering the rodent that will be its next meal. 
“They weren’t offering enough,” I said recklessly. I probably should’ve thought through how I wanted to play this. 
The Lancer raised bushy eyebrows. “I see.” Clack, clack, clack. “How do you like this offer: you help us, we won’t kill you.” 
Like I believed that. He’d want to make sure he was the only one with the proof. Killing Halliday and me once we helped him understand and apply it would be a no-brainer. 
It was on my tongue to agree—to play along, let him think he had me—when I remembered how another woman had bluffed when we’d been up against a villain with a supervolcano. She’d pushed him, not given in too easily, and it had made him buy our act. “Not good enough,” I said. “Pay me.” 
“What did you say?” 
“Halliday paid me to help. I don’t do this for my health, you know. I do it for the money.” The proclamation almost sounded true, probably because this sort of story was right in my comfort zone. 
Damian grit his teeth and hissed at the set. "She's faking the accent," he said. "She thinks that Americans believe that anyone with a European accent is smarter than we are. She can pronounce vee and doubleyou perfectly well when she wants to -- she speaks better English than I do! Besides, she stole that line from me ," he said, "from my thesis ," he said, his face scrunching up again. 
"Shh, shh," Trish said, laughing at him. He wasn't really angry-angry, she knew. Just a little stir crazy. He was a networking guy -- he should have been out there trying to make the network go again, but he was on sabbatical and no one at UCLA wanted to hear from him just then. 
And then the pundit was off onto ants -- networks modeled on ant-colonies that use virtual pheromones to explore all possible routes in realtime and emerge a solution to the problem of getting everything, everywhere, in shortest time. Damian kept barking at the TV, and Trish knew he was doing it to entertain her as much as for any reason, so she...  TV cut back to the news-dude, who was a very cuddly ewok who'd made his name hosting a wheel-of-fortune, jumping up and down and squeaking excitedly and adorably whenever a contestant won the grand prize, his fur-plugs quivering. He cupped his paws to his cheeks and grinned. 
Sean's father reached around the table and gave Grampa a stiff hug. "Good to see you, Pop." 
"Yeah, likewise. Sit down, Mitch. Sit down, Sean. Sit down, Adele." They sat. "Ask your questions, Sean," he ordered. 
Sean found himself tongue-tied. He heaved a deep breath and closed his eyes for a moment. He thought about why he was here: not the reason he'd given his thesis advisor, but the real goddamn reason. He wanted to understand -- his father, himself. He wanted to reverse-engineer his father's childhood. He looked at Ethan, slack as Grampa had been whenever they'd visited. An inkling glimmered. "Does Ethan scare you, Grampa?" 
Adele tsk ed and scowled. 
"Do I scare you, Mitch?" Grampa said, to Sean's father. 
"Yes," Sean's father said. 
"Yes," Grampa said. "Next question." 
"Do you think that switching off is a sign of weakness?" Sean said, sneaking a glance at his father, seeing his grandfather's features echoed in his father's face. 
"Yes," his father said. 
"Of course," his grandfather said. 
"No acid in it?" 
"Not a trace." 
"And yet a child could do the Monday washing with it and use no force." 
"Oh! a babe, eh? That child grows younger every year, instead of older—wise child!" 
This was great good fortune, to find a customer who knew all the virtues of the article in advance. Rebecca dimpled more and more, and at her new friend's invitation sat down on a stool at his side near the edge of the porch. The beauties of the ornamental box which held the Rose-Red were disclosed, and the prices of both that and the Snow-White were unfolded. Presently she forgot all about her silent partner at the gate and was talking as if she had known this grand personage all her life. 
"I'm keeping house to-day, but I don't live here," explained the delightful gentleman. "I'm just on a visit to my aunt, who has gone to Portland. I used to be here as a boy and I am very fond of the spot." 
"I don't think anything takes the place of the farm where one lived when one was a child," observed Rebecca, nearly bursting with pride at having at last successfully used the indefinite pronoun in general conversation. 
“Way. Have you got any cortisone cream? I can tell you the story. My name’s Felix and this is Van, who needs any anti-histamines you can spare.” 
“I can spare? Felix old pal, I have enough dope here to last a hundred years. This stuff’s going to expire long before it runs out. But are you telling me that the net’s still up?” 
“It’s still up,” he said. “Kind of. That’s what we’ve been doing all week. Keeping it online. It might not last much longer, though.” 
“No,” she said. “I don’t suppose it would.” She set the axe down. “Have you got anything to trade? I don’t need much, but I’ve been trying to keep my spirits up by trading with the neighbors. It’s like playing civilization.” 
“You have neighbors?” 
“At least ten,” she said. “The people in the restaurant across the way make a pretty good soup, even... They cleaned me out of Sterno, though.” 
“You’ve got neighbors and you trade with them?” 
“Well, nominally. It’d be pretty lonely without them. I’ve taken care of whatever sniffles I could. Set a bone—broken wrist. Listen, do you want some Wonder Bread and peanut butter? I have a ton of it. Your friend looks like he could use a meal.” 
“It is not necessary,” said Mrs. Enderby. “I shall have her letter.” 
There was another tap at the door. Mrs. Enderby closed the door leading into the bathroom, and then called: “Come in!” 
The parlor maid entered. 
“You may take away the tray,” her mistress said graciously. “Miss Enderby has finished.” 
Again a feeling that was almost horror came over Lexy. There was the bed Caroline had slept in, there was the breakfast Caroline had eaten, there was Caroline’s bath running—and Caroline wasn’t there! Lexy wanted to get out of that room and away from Mrs. Enderby. 
“Do you mind if I go down and get my own breakfast now?” she asked, when the parlor maid had gone out with the tray. 
“But certainly not!” Mrs. Enderby blandly consented. “We shall go down together.” 
She turned off the water in the bath, and, following Lexy out of the room, locked the door on the outside. The girl dropped behind her as they descended the stairs, and studied the stout, dignified figure before her with indignant interest. 
Tresting narrowed his eyes. “All right,” he said, after a moment’s hesitation. “I got a niggly feeling you’re going to know all of this within the hour anyway, so I might as well tell you. I got hired by Dr. Leena Kingsley to look into her husband’s death. Fell down the rabbit hole, and here I am.” 
Steve turned to me. “And you?” 
“I’m helping him,” I said. 
“I’m afraid that’s not good enough.” 
“She’s the one who said she would call Dawna Polk,” said Finch; through his bloody nose her name sounded more like “dodda po.” “She used her to threaten me, Boss. She knows.” 
Knows what? 
“I did glean something of the sort from your message,” Steve said to Finch. He turned to fix his attention on me in a way that made me want to turn and run. After shooting him first. “So. Either you are one of Pithica’s agents, or you truly have no idea what you are dealing with.” 
I felt Tresting’s eyes shift to me. “I’m not working for Pithica,” I said, more for Tresting’s benefit than for our agency friends. “As a matter of fact, they tried to kill me.” 
Mom nodded. "You'll understand why in a minute," she said. Mr Glover stepped from behind Dad. 
"And you called in the Navy?" 
"All in good time." 
We were introduced one at a time to her. She had a firm handshake and long fingers. 
Her place was furnished in Japanese minimalist style, just a few precisely proportioned, low pieces of furniture, large clay pots of bamboo that brushed the ceiling, and what looked like a large, rusted piece of a diesel engine perched on top of a polished marble plinth. I decided I liked it. The floors were old wood, sanded and stained, but not filled, so you could see cracks and pits underneath the varnish. I really liked that, especially as I walked over it in my stocking...  "Who wants some?" 
We all put up our hands. I glared defiantly at my parents. 
"Right," she said. 
She disappeared into another room and came back a moment later bearing a rough bamboo tray with a half-gallon thermos jug and six cups of precise design but with rough, sloppy decorations. I liked those too. 
“I’ll tell the FBI guys I want to be in on it. You know, for my brother’s sake.” 
“What if they arrest you and the recording you make of today’s meet is destroyed?” 
“That would totally suck.” I felt exhausted, suddenly, and embarrassed. I wanted to go home to my little sleeping nook, pull the covers over my head, and sleep forever. “I guess it’s a dumb idea.” 
“It’s a genius idea, but look at this footage.” She played some of it. “Not bad for a lens the size of a shirt button, but for today’s meeting? We need a better camera. Give me a few minutes to pack my stuff and we’ll go.” 
She roused Zeke to help her troubleshoot a wife hotspot she wanted to use, and then Nikko wandered in sleepily, wondering how he could help. She explained how to monitor the livestream she would be sending as a backup for her recording. We finally got underway, packing two big carryalls into a taxi driven by Sarah’s good friend Bahdoon. She had a talent for making BFFs every- where she went. “You know what his name means?” she asked me. 
Rebecca's own black locks were commonly pushed smoothly off her forehead, but on this occasion she formed what I must perforce call by its only name, a spit-curl, directly in the centre of her brow, an ornament which she was allowed to wear a very short time, only in fact till Hannah was able to call her mother's attention to it, when she was sent into the next room to remove it and to come back looking like a Christian. This command she interpreted somewhat too literally perhaps, because she contrived in a space of two minutes an extremely pious style of hairdressing, fully as effective if not as startling as the first. These antics were solely the result of nervous irritation, a mood born of Miss Miranda Sawyer's stiff, grim, and martial attitude. The remembrance of Rebecca was so vivid that their sister Aurelia's letter was something of a shock to the quiet, elderly spinsters of the brick house; for it said that Hannah could not possibly be spared for a few years yet, but that Rebecca would come as soon as she could be made ready; that the offer was most thankfully appreciated, and that the regular schooling and church privileges, as well as the influence of the Sawyer home, would doubtless be "the making of Rebecca." 
“Get out.” 
“We can still work toge—” 
“Get out of my truck.” 
I did. Tresting got down from the other side and slammed his door with much more force than necessary. 
I decided to try for professional. “I’ll call him,” I volunteered. “If he did go in, I’ll see if he got any information out of the office. I’ll let you know.” 
The tension in Tresting’s posture cracked, and he whipped his arm around, bringing a fist down on the hood of his truck so hard he dented it. “How can you stand there and say—after what we saw—” He shook his head over and over, as if warding off the devil. “No. No. Don’t call me, Russell. Just don’t. We’ll solve this without you or not at all.” He cleared his throat. “It ain’t worth it.” 
Something stung inside my chest, a sharp and unfamiliar pain. It wasn’t only Rio he thought a monster. “I understand,” I said. My lips felt strangely stiff. “I won’t bother you again.” 
Tresting’s condemnation washed over me as he turned away, disgust and contempt and horror simmering in his wake. He strode off. 
“Do you know,” he said, “the first time I saw you, there in the park, I—I liked the way you talked to me!” 
“How?” asked Lexy, with great interest. “I thought I must have seemed awfully irritating and mysterious.” 
He grinned. 
“You were awfully mad when I spoke to you,” he said; “but I liked that. I don’t know—somehow you made me think of Joan of Arc.” 
“Me?” cried Lexy. “With freckles, and such a temper? You couldn’t imagine me listening to angels, could you?” 
“Yes,” he said, “I could.” 
She glanced at him to see if he was laughing, but he was not. His eyes met hers with a quiet and steady look. 
“I didn’t need to imagine much,” he said. “You’ve told me what you’ve been through, and I can see for myself what you are. I don’t think there ever was another girl like you!” 
“Nonsense!” said Lexy, looking away. “I’m just pig-headed—that’s all.” 
They had wandered across the fields until they came to a little river, running clear and swift under the elm trees. By tacit consent they sat down on the bank. They didn’t talk much. Houseman skipped stones with skill and earnest attention, and Lexy watched the minnows flitting past through the limpid water. The sky was an unclouded blue. The sunlight came through the branches, where the leaves were scarcely unfolded, and made little golden sparkles on the hurrying current. It was all so quiet—and yet it wasn’t peaceful. The world seemed too young, too warmly and joyously alive, for peace. The spring was waiting in eagerness for the summer. This still, fresh, sunlit day was only an interlude. 
"That's the deal," the Series A man said. "And I don't see anyone offering anything better." 
MacDiarmid gave him a shut-up-asshole look, then spread his hands out. 
"When I raised money from you, we did it over the course of several weeks. We talked to lawyers. They exchanged documents. I don't think it's reasonable for you to expect me to sign anything now without at least consulting a lawyer." 
"You want several weeks?" the Series A man said, with mock incredulity. 
"Half an hour," Lee-Daniel said. "I don't think that's too much to ask." 
They settled for Warrior escorts for the antennamen and the surveyors. The Warriors were resentful at first, but they came around. 
Lee-Daniel went out with a crew that Elaine was leading, up on the northern border of the sovereign. She had two junior surveyors with her, all of them loaded with positioning gear that tied into Galileo, the European GPS network -- the Galileo gear cost a fortune, but they'd found that their American GPS kit often mysteriously stopped working when they were working on projects in the territorial USA. They'd ordered the Euro stuff from a bunch of anti-globalization activists who'd found that the same thing happened in any city hosting an economic summit. Europeans were more likely to treat infrastructure as sacrosanct, while the US was only too happy to monkey with GPS for tactical reasons. 
I said, "In that case, I'll do it." 
His mouth dropped. He sat down and put on a movie, Pink Flamingos. What a sick movie! 
When it was over, he said, "In that case, I'll do it." 
And then I had the best idea I've ever had. It was so good, I couldn't say anything for five whole minutes. Mom, you sure didn't raise any idiots! 
Hi Mom! 
Well, today was just fine . Me and Rhindquist got to the garage in the nick of time and it's a good thing that he turned our watches down because they give me a headache! 
Vasquez was waiting for us when we got there and he had on his mad face for the other guys but when me and Rhindquist got on the truck, he smiled and winked at us. 
I drove and Rhindquist hung onto the back and he shouted at me to go faster and I just ignored him! He kept on shouting saying, You pinhead my grandma drives faster than you do and she's been dead for years! And that made me laugh so hard I nearly rolled the truck and Rhindquist nearly fell off and he was pretty quiet after that! 
I didn’t wait to hear the rest of it. I banged out of the Hole. My tires squealed against the asphalt as I peeled away. 
Everything was wrong. Crumbling. Disintegrating. 
Enough emotion welled up to swallow me, drown me. This job was nothing, my life was nothing...I was nothing. A speck of dust in a hurricane. Powerless. 
We couldn’t find Martinez, and we didn’t even know why she had stolen the proof in the first place. I was mathematically and mentally broken, and to top it off I couldn’t even finish one goddamn commission and track down one seventy-year-old woman. And Checker...what Checker had said... 
I couldn’t have cared less about my memory. My brain shied away from it. Not remembering was just fine with me. 
The math, though. The math was everything. 
If only I could fix that, then nothing else would matter. Not the two-decade long blank spot in my head, not the fact that I was failing so miserably in my work, not that fact that I’d left myself a note in a freakin’ graveyard like some kind of sadistically creepy fortune-teller...not the fact that my so-called friends only seemed to give a damn about me as suited their own needs. 
Arthur made a face. “What, then? He owe you money? You owe him money? I can’t figure it out!” 
“Then ask when you can tell me why it’s any of your business.” There wasn’t a chance in hell I would tell him how Rio and I had met. That wasn’t his to know. 
The apartment door opened at that moment and Rio himself came in. He was back in his customary tan duster, and water slicked the mantle in dark patches. Apparently it was raining outside—I couldn’t hear it. It made me wonder how long I’d been out; the rainy season in Los Angeles doesn’t usually start until December or January, though sometimes it was months earlier. 
“Hello, Cas,” Rio greeted me, when he saw I was sitting up. “How are you feeling?” 
“Like I’ve been shot,” I answered. 
He nodded. “Understandable, given the circumstances.” 
Arthur threw up his hands in what I could only have described as flailing. 
“But I’m getting better,” I told Rio, ignoring Arthur. I felt more energetic, and I was awake, which was a change, and the numbers surrounding me weren’t quite as sluggish as they had been, and I knew the answer to how fast I was metabolizing the drugs, so things were looking up. 
“I think it’s a joint operation,” he said distractedly. “The NSA doesn’t have field agents. I—uh—Cas—” 
“Well, the DHS or whoever else, I’m going to beat them. Have you planted the evidence for the Lancer yet?” 
“Yes—mostly. Listen, I—I don’t know how to—” 
“I got out in time.” 
“What? Oh, uh, yeah. Good. Cas, remember when I said that thing about personal worst nightmares and end times? I just—this is—” 
I wasn’t interested. “Set it up so the Lancer thinks I’m taking a meeting and thinks he can track me down, somewhere with no bystanders to get in the way. Text me the location.” 
“I—okay.” 
He sounded so dispirited. I sighed. “We’ll kick this case in the balls and get the professor back. You’ll see.” Arthur would see. 
“That’s not what I—okay. Okay. I’ll set it up.” 
I hung up. 
I dropped the phone on the passenger seat of the car I was jacking and leaned my head against the steering wheel, my hands in my lap. The bandage had come off my left one at some point. It didn’t look worse than the other, though; both hands were caked in blood and dirt. 
“Think he thought he was doing something good,” Arthur said gently. “Wanted to release it to the public. Something about the math world needing to know.” He exchanged a glance with me, clearly uneasy about how to bring up Martinez. “Went wrong, though.” 
“What happened? Is he all right?” 
“Till his bosses catch on, yeah,” said Arthur. 
Halliday pressed a hand to her mouth. “He has a family,” she said softly. 
“Well, he should’ve thought of that before he stole from the freakin’ NSA,” I said. “Or at least planned his theft a little better.” Bad tradecraft. I didn’t have any sympathy for that. 
Arthur shot me a look. 
“Do they know?” Halliday asked. “The government, do they know yet?” 
“Don’t know what they know,” said Arthur. “But they gonna find out. What did you tell them so far?” 
“Not much—just that he took it to give them. But when they said he wasn’t supposed to be the courier, I stopped talking immediately. Arthur, we must be able to do something. Tell them he never made the pick up after all, or that someone stole it from us—I don’t know. But we have to. Arthur, I know his children.” 
"Well, thanks for calling," I said. "Everything's moving along." 
"Good, good." There was another pause, then, "Inciden­tally, you having any luck finding that Ninos del Mundo place you were looking for?" 
I hesitated, wondering why he would ask and also unsure what to say. 
"Not yet," I volunteered. My God, it finally dawned on me. The guy was tracking me. He wanted to know what I knew. "You come up with anything at your end?" 
"I've been busy, a string of meetings, but I still think you might want to check out the phone book." It was the second time he'd made the suggestion. He was practically ordering me to do it. Why? "You never know. I'm afraid that's about the best I can do." 
"Maybe I will," I said. "I've been a little busy too." 
The phone call was feeling stranger and stranger. He was sending me to see something, probably in hopes it would make me go away. It was actually more unnerving than if he'd done nothing at all. 
"Well, in any case, I hope you have a good visit," he declared diplomatically. Another pause. "Planning to be here long?" 
"The airlines." He almost grinned. "If they can keep track of everybody's damned frequent-flyer miles for years and years, they undoubtedly got flight manifests stored away somewhere too. So my first step is to find out where she flew from." 
"But we don't know which—" 
"Doesn't matter." He squinted again at the passport. "Now we know for sure she showed up at the airport in Guatemala City on that date there. I know somebody down­town, smooth black guy named John Williams, the FBI's best computer nerd, who could bend a rule for me and do a little B&E in cyberspace. He owes me a couple. So, if she was on a manifest for a scheduled flight into Guatemala City that day, he'll find it. Then we'll know where she left from, who else was on the plane." He tapped the passport confidently with his forefinger. "Maybe she was traveling with some scumbag I ought to look up and get to know better." 
"Well, good luck." 
In a way I was wondering if we weren't both now grasping for a miracle: me half-hoping for a baby through some New Age process of "centering," Lou trying to reclaim Sarah from her mental abyss with his gruff love. But then again, miracles have been known to happen. 
“You’re some kind of amateur historian, huh?” 
“It’s an Asimovist thing. We spend a lot of time considering the origins of intelligence.” Speaking of Asimovism to a gentile—a human gentile—made him even more self-conscious. He dialed up the resolution on his sensors and scoured the net for better facial expression analyzers. He couldn’t read her at all, either because she’d been changed by her uploading, or because her face wasn’t accurately matching what the her temporarily downloaded mind was thinking. 
“AOL is the origin of intelligence?” She laughed, and he couldn’t tell if she thought he was funny or stupid. He wished she would act more like he remembered people acting. Her body-language was no more readable than her facial expressions. 
“Spam-filters, actually. Once they became self-modifying, spam-filters and spam-bots got into a war to see which could act more human, and since their failures invoked a human judgement about whether their material were convincingly human, it was like a trillion Turing-tests from which they could learn. From there came the first machine-intelligence algorithms, and then my kind.” 
And into her sick and shuddering mind her old sturdy courage began to return. She tried to breathe quietly. She struggled desperately against the awful weakness that urged her to sink down on the ground and cover her eyes. 
“No!” she said aloud. “I won’t! I’m here! I’m alive! I will understand! I will see!” 
She was able now to draw a deep breath, and the horrible fluttering of her heart grew less. She stood motionless, waiting. It was coming back to her, that immortal, unconquerable spirit of hers. The anguish and the strange fear were passing. 
“I’m here,” she said. “I’m in a wood somewhere. These are trees. What I hear are only the leaves in the wind. I don’t know where it is, or how I got here; but I’m alive and well. I can walk. I can get out of it.” 
She moved forward again, quietly and deliberately. Her eyes were more accustomed to the darkness now, and she made her way through the trees, looking always ahead, never once behind her. 
“The wood must end somewhere,” she said. “The morning will have to come some time. All I have to do is to go on.” 
“I think it’s a joint operation,” he said distractedly. “The NSA doesn’t have field agents. I—uh—Cas—” 
“Well, the DHS or whoever else, I’m going to beat them. Have you planted the evidence for the Lancer yet?” 
“Yes—mostly. Listen, I—I don’t know how to—” 
“I got out in time.” 
“What? Oh, uh, yeah. Good. Cas, remember when I said that thing about personal worst nightmares and end times? I just—this is—” 
I wasn’t interested. “Set it up so the Lancer thinks I’m taking a meeting and thinks he can track me down, somewhere with no bystanders to get in the way. Text me the location.” 
“I—okay.” 
He sounded so dispirited. I sighed. “We’ll kick this case in the balls and get the professor back. You’ll see.” Arthur would see. 
“That’s not what I—okay. Okay. I’ll set it up.” 
I hung up. 
I dropped the phone on the passenger seat of the car I was jacking and leaned my head against the steering wheel, my hands in my lap. The bandage had come off my left one at some point. It didn’t look worse than the other, though; both hands were caked in blood and dirt. 
“Um, Robbie? An uplifted reef tried to kill me.” 
“But before the reef attacked you.” Robbie didn’t like thinking of the reef attacking her, the panic when he realized that she wasn’t a mere human shell, but a human. 
“Before the reef attacked me, it was fine.” 
“Do you dive much?” 
“First time,” she said. “I downloaded the certification before leaving the noosphere along with a bunch of stored dives on these sites.” 
“Oh, you shouldn’t have done that!” Robbie said. “The thrill of discovery is so important.” 
“I’d rather be safe than surprised,” she said. “I’ve had enough surprises in my life lately.” 
Robbie waited patiently for her to elaborate on this, but she didn’t seem inclined to do so. 
“So you’re all alone out here?” 
“I have the net,” he said, a little defensively. He wasn’t some kind of hermit. 
“Yeah, I guess that’s right,” she said. “I wonder if the reef is somewhere out there.” 
“About half a mile to starboard,” he said. 
She laughed. “No, I meant out there on the net. They must be online by now, right? They just woke up, so they’re probably doing all the noob stuff, flaming and downloading warez and so on.” 
“It’s buried deep. I got a tech guy. He can only find bits and pieces. But it’s far-reaching. My client’s husband, he was a journalist. Started digging into some things. Political decisions, that sort of stuff, ones that didn’t make sense. Nutso crime spikes. Chances are they could’ve left him alive; I don’t think he ever saw the connection.” 
“What connection?” 
“Pithica. Just the word. Buried deep. Didn’t find it linked up to all the things he been looking at, but it was enough to be, uh, a ‘statistically significant correlation.’ Or so say my tech guy.” 
His tech guy must be good. Anton had been able to find almost nothing. “And you think Pithica killed him. The journalist.” 
“Sounds crazy, but yeah. Some of what we found, it was a pattern—it’s too similar, the MO of his murder. Can’t prove it, not yet, but his death’s got Pithica all over it.” 
“So Courtney Polk is, what, some sort of secret government agent?” 
“Always the ones you least suspect, right? She’s the only one who could have done it. We managed to figure out she saw my guy day-of.” 
I picked up the phone again and punched in the number of his hotel in Belize City, which seemed to be embedded permanently in my brain. That wonderful accent at the desk mon, and then they were ringing his room. I had no reason on earth to assume he would be there, but . . . 
The click, the voice, it was him. 
"Sorry to call so late, love. You said you missed me, so I've decided to find out if it's true. Your coming attraction is about to arrive." 
I guess I was trying to keep it flip. After our talk that morning, I wasn't entirely sure where we stood anymore. 
"Who . . . Morgy, is that you? God it's two . . . Are you okay?" Then he started coming around, processing what I said. "You're coming . . . Honey, that's great." 
As I noted before, he always knew how to give a good reading, sound sincere, no matter what the occasion. 
"Actually, I've just made a plane reservation, and I'm going to be in Guatemala City tomorrow, just after noon." I hesitated then thought, why beat around the bush? "Care to meet me there?" 
“That’s fine. I need to get some homework done.” 
She hesitated for a moment, probably wondering what “home- work” was code for, because we both knew I wasn’t about to waste time on algebra at a time like this. “Well, don’t work too hard.” 
That was her code for “don’t do anything that will get you arrested or seriously hurt.” 
“You too. See you later.” 
I asked Nikko to drop me off a couple of blocks from home. I waved as I rode off, and they waved, too, and I realized it didn’t bother me anymore that they were being so adorbs together. 
I made it home without spotting anyone lying in wait and made...  to work, using the time it took the kettle to boil to inspect my bedroom to make sure nobody had been snooping in there. Then I took the...  butter sandwiches into my room to catch up, using the laptop hidden under the floorboards to connect with the Group. 
Everything was on track. Group members had compiled a huge dossier of information on the case and other ones like it. 
I didn’t want to meet her. I just wanted her to make a cool film really fast so that all of her fans would descend upon the authorities like a plague of locusts and they would have to release my brother due to a public outcry. I knew it wouldn’t happen like that, but Nikko would be super-excited when I told him the famous filmmaker he admired so much was coming. 
"That applies how?" 
"Manipulation of the shed in that way is mission oriented. The parameter set that drives the programming, the idea that informs the meme, is reset to zero after the task is carried out. Do you understand?" 
He gets it. "It's too time and labor intensive unless you want to accomplish something you couldn't do with normal guns and willing followers. Like an assassination of a foreign official, or the infiltration of a nuclear complex. Something big." 
"Except that even to do that, you have to provide a prohibitive amount of guidance. You have to know exactly what you're making the shed do, because the shed despises you. It does not want to serve your human purposes. In fact, it wants to destroy you for daring to have disturbed it. To command the shed is a nightmare of micromanagement wherein even the smallest mistake generates unforeseen disasters, because it wants to be free. 
"That is the hidden concept in all the ancient texts, this idea of disturbance. To call the shed, you disturb it from something else that it was doing. You remove it from an environment that is somehow essential to its nature and pleasure, and drag it into corporeal activity. " 
"I'm not certain," said Rebecca conscientiously, "but I'll look in the circular—it's sure to tell;" and she drew the document from her pocket. 
"What are you going to do with the magnificent profits you get from this business?" 
"We are not selling for our own benefit," said Rebecca confidentially. "My friend who is holding the horse at the gate is the daughter of a very rich blacksmith, and doesn't need any money. I am poor, but I live with my aunts in a brick house, and of course they wouldn't like me to be a peddler. We are trying to get a premium for some friends of ours." 
Rebecca had never thought of alluding to the circumstances with her previous customers, but unexpectedly she found herself describing Mr. Simpson, Mrs. Simpson, and the Simpson family; their poverty, their joyless life, and their abject need of a banquet lamp to brighten their existence. 
"You needn't argue that point," laughed the man, as he stood up to get a glimpse of the "rich blacksmith's daughter" at the gate. "I can see that they ought to have it if they want it, and especially if you want them to have it. I've known what it was myself to do without a banquet lamp. Now give me the circular, and let's do some figuring. How much do the Simpsons lack at this moment?" 
“Oh, I’m sociable enough—at times,” said Lexy. 
“But at the present time you prefer solitude? For the purposes of your work? As a change from the stimulating atmosphere of the city?” 
Any mention of her work made Lexy uncomfortable. 
“Well, yes,” she answered in a dubious tone. 
“I lived in New York myself for a number of years,” he went on. “I wonder if you—may I ask what part of the city you lived in, Miss Moran?” 
Lexy hesitated, and she meant him to see that she hesitated. After all, however, it was not an unnatural or impertinent question, and she couldn’t very well refuse to answer it. 
“In the East Sixties, near the park,” she said. “It wasn’t my own home, though—I was a companion,” she added. 
She always liked people to know that. She was far from being cynical, but she was aware that this information made a difference—to some people. 
She was astonished to see the difference it made in Dr. Quelton. He raised his black, weary eyes to her face and stared at her with unmistakable insolence. 
"Yeah?" 
"There's a person we want to find. A person who's left the country, apparently headed for Mexico. She knows certain things that are, as of today, classified. She needs to be briefed on her new responsibilities." 
Greg stood up. "I'm not going to find Maya for you." He pulled on his jacket. 
"There are plenty of people here who will. It's up to you, though. You can work here with her, being productive, or you can find out just how rotten life can get -- while she works here, being productive with your co-workers." 
Greg stared at him, his hands balled into fists. 
"Come on," the rumpled man said. "Greg, we both know how this goes. When you said yes to me in your kitchen, you lost the option of saying no. It's not so bad, is it? Who would you rather have doing the nation's intelligence: you and your pals here in the Valley, or a bunch of straight-edge code-grinders in Virginia?" 
Greg turned on his heel and left. He made it all the way to the parking lot before he stopped and kicked a wall so hard he felt something give way in his foot. 
and photos of other people who had been arrested in fake terror- ist stings. Then pictures of my brother and his friends, things she must have found online. 
There was Wilson lying in a hammock looking sleepy and innocent. Wilson and Emily holding up matching hand stamps from some concert, clowning for the camera. Their friends sitting around a fire in the overgrown backyard, the light flickering off their faces, all of them looking young and happy in their peaceable corner of a messed-up world. It ended with the familiar video of my brother and his friends being led out of their house with their hands cuffed behind them and my eyes welled up with tears. She made me feel proud and hopeful and angry and ready to fight for justice. But those photos of my brother had opened something up inside me and it hurt. I pictured Wilson, sitting in a cell, worrying that there would be no more hammocks for him, no campfires, no goofing off with his friends. Just cells and scratchy uniforms and rules, surrounded by people full of anger and violence. 
“Arthur thinks if we all share and bond we’ll end up singing kumbaya and it will all be hunky-dory,” Checker interrupted loudly. He was staring at his hands, not looking at me. “Cas, I don’t know who you are, and that wouldn’t be such a problem, except you don’t know who you are, and that scares the ever-living shit out of me.” 
I took a step back. 
“Something happened to you, and we have no idea what, or—for all we know you could be a ticking time bomb. We have no idea whether—” 
“That’s not fair,” I said. “You can’t tell me you know every little thing that has ever affected you—and if we’re talking about Pithica, Arthur was just as much—” 
“I’m not done! This isn’t about me being afraid for me, or for Arthur, or for anyone else, even though God knows I am. I’m afraid for you, Cas. Can you understand that? At all? You can’t ask me to be friends with you and watch you ignore this!” 
“Who said you have to?” The words were out before I could think about them, ugly and saw-toothed. “If you don’t like being friends with me, fine. No one’s forcing you.” 
Probably the reason I saw him as much as I did as a kid was because of my cousin Sarah, his and Rose's only child. She was six years younger than me, a lot when you're kids, but we were very special to each other, had a kind of bonding that I've never really known with anybody since. We spent a lot of time staying at each other's house, me the almost-grown-up, and truthfully, I loved her helplessly, like a little sister. I always wanted to think she needed me, which can be the most affirming feeling in the world. I do know I needed her. 
She was now lying in a coma, and the way she got there was the tragedy of my life, and Lou's. To begin with, though, let me say Sarah was a pretty blonde from the start, with sun­shiny hair that defined her as perpetually optimistic—and who wouldn't be, given the heads she always turned. (I was—am—blond too, though with eyes more gray than her tur­quoise blues, but for me blond's always been, on balance, an affliction: Sexist film producers assume, dammit, that you're a failed showgirl, or worse. I've actually dyed it brunette from time to time in hopes of being taken more seriously.) Sarah and I had always had our own special chemistry, like a com­posite of opposites to make a complete, whole human being. Whereas I was the rational, left-brained slave of the concrete, she was a right-brained dweller in a world of what-might-be. For years and years, she seemed to live in a dream universe of her own making, one of imagination and fanciful states. 
