“Whatever we’re doing, it’s got to be now,” I said. 
Arthur nodded decisively and grabbed Zhang’s elbow, hurrying him back toward the house. “You’re coming with us until we get this sorted. You might still go down for it, you follow? But we gotta figure this out.” 
“I—I don’t understand—” 
Arthur stopped and stared him in the eyes. “You’re a dad, right?” 
“Yes—my oldest is thirteen—” 
“Then we ain’t letting the Feds bury you before we get to the bottom of this thing first, and maybe not even then, you hear? You did a boneheaded stupid thing while trying to do right, and that ain’t enough for me to leave three kids without their father.” 
“Arthur, now meant now,” I said. 
“I—uh—thank you?” managed Zhang. His expression was more hapless fear than gratitude, but Arthur just pressed his lips together and hustled the man off with us. 
We drove together; I took the wheel in Arthur’s rental car. He didn’t bring up his and Checker’s conversation with me, for which I was grateful. I’d shoved all of it—my discoveries, Checker’s stupid accusations, our fight, everything—into a box in the back of my head to deal with later, neatly compartmentalizing. I was back on the job, and I had to be able to focus. 
But he paid no attention to her. He stood still, drawing deep breaths of the night air. 
“Them roses!” he said. “The smell of ’em made me kind of sick, like. Throw ’em out, miss! Don’t go to sleep with them roses in the room!” 
Lexy did not answer for a time. 
“I’ll see you to-morrow, Joe,” she said. “I’ll pay you for the taxi, and have a talk with you. And thank you, Joe, ever so much!” 
He touched his cap, murmured “Good night,” and off he went. 
Lexy went in, locked the kitchen door behind her, and stood there, leaning against it, half dazed by the great light that was coming into her mind. She was beginning to understand! The roses—the roses with their strange and powerful fragrance! Her hysterical outburst after her tea at Dr. Quelton’s house! She was beginning to understand, not the details, but the one tremendous thing that mattered. 
“He did it,” she said to herself. “He made all this happen. I didn’t just break down. I haven’t been weak and hysterical. He made it all happen!” 
I finally dragged myself up and got us a bottle of water. Then, leaning against the rickety headboard, I recounted an abbreviated version of what had happened yesterday after we'd first talked—the theft of my film, and then Lou being assaulted and Sarah taken, apparently willingly, to be brought (I strongly suspected) back here. What I held out on were the details about a certain Colonel Jose Alvino Ramos, my belief that he was behind the crimes and in league with Alex Goddard and stalking me. I was afraid our room was bugged. 
"Morgy, we'll get through this," he said, reaching over to stroke my hair. "If somebody brought her back down here, we'll find her. And I apologize for being such a shit on the phone, about the baby. I'd just had a local lab lose three rolls of high-speed Kodachrome and I was seriously frosted at the world. We can keep trying if you want to." 
"Just hold me." I put down my glass and I reached around and ran my finger across his chest. It was so lovely to be this close to somebody you wanted so much. I loved his earnest brown eyes and his soft skin. I loved him. Just having him with me made such a difference. 
"Any idea how I could find her?" 
"You know, she wrote kids' books, and I think she gave me her card. In case I ever needed somebody to do some YA copy. Let me go look in my Rolodex. I filed her card under 'Y' for Young Adult. Right. It'll just take a second." 
The woman, whose name was Paula Marks, lived on West 83rd Street. The business card, a tasteful brown with a weave in the paper, described her as an author. The address included a "suite" number, which meant she worked out of her apart­ment. 
"Mind if I take down her phone number and address? I'd really like to look her up. To see if her experience was any­thing remotely like yours." 
Carly gazed at her fingernails a second. "Okay, but do me a favor. Don't tell her how you got her number." She bit her lip, stalling. "It's one thing for me to talk to you myself. It's something else entirely to go sticking my nose into other people's business." 
"Look, I'll respect her privacy just as much as I respect yours." I paused, listening to what I'd just said. The promise sounded pretty lame. I'd just filmed her, or hadn't she no­ticed? "Look, let me call Paula, see if she'll agree to be interviewed on camera. I'll keep your name entirely out if it, I promise." 
The next picture barely had time to start when it was shut off and the lights came up and one of the proprietors stepped in front of the screen, talking into his phone, which must have been dialed into the cine’s sound system. 
“Comrades, your attention please. We have had word that the city is under attack by our old enemies. They have bombed the east quarter and many are dead. More bombs are expected soon.” They all spoke at once, horrified non-words that were like a panic, a sound made Valentine want to cover her ears. 
“Please, comrades,” the speaker said. He was about sixty and was getting a new head of hair, but he had the look of the old ones who’d lived through the zombiism, a finger or two bent at a funny angle by a secret policeman, a wattle under the chin of skin loosened by some dark year of starvation. “Please! We must be calm! If there are shelters in your apartment buildings and you can walk there in less than ten minutes, you should walk there. If your building lacks shelters, or if it would take more than ten minutes to go to your building’s shelter, you may use some of the limited shelter space here. The seats will lower in order, two at a time, to prevent a rush, and when yours reaches ground, please leave calmly and quickly and get to your shelter.” 
“I keep thinking about it,” he said in a half whisper. “This is the queer thing about it, miss. That there car didn’t start till I got to the foot of the hill ! The engine was just racing, and the car wasn’t moving along—I know that. It was as if he’d been waiting up there for me, and then down he came as if he meant”—the speaker paused again—“to kill me,” he ended. 
“But—” Lexy began, and then stopped. 
She had a very odd feeling that this story was somehow of great importance to her, but that she must put it away, that she must keep it in her mind until later. This wasn’t the time to think about it. 
“Joe,” she said, “I want to hear more about this—all about it; but not now. I’m too tired.” 
He gave himself a shake, like a dog. Then he turned to her with a slow, good-natured smile. 
“I guess you are!” he said. “Lucky for you I just happened to be late to-night, taking them Ainsly girls ’way out to their house after a dance. Hop in, miss!” 
Lexy got in, and they set off. She leaned back and closed her eyes, but they flew open again as if of their own accord. There was something she wanted to see. Through the glass she could see Joe’s burly shoulders, a little hunched—Joe, who, like herself, wasn’t sure. 
I'd done that to him. He'd been happy before, confident that his tax dollars were being spent to keep him safe. I'd destroyed that confidence. It was false confidence, of course, but it had kept him going. Seeing him now, miserable and broken, I wondered if it was better to be clear-eyed and hopeless or to live in a fool's paradise. That shame -- the shame I'd felt since I gave up my passwords, since they'd broken me -- returned, leaving me listless and wanting to just get away from myself. 
My character was a swabbie on the pirate ship Zombie Charger , and he'd wound down while I'd been offline. I had to IM all the other players on my ship until I found one willing to wind me up. That kept me occupied. I liked it, actually. There was something magic about a total stranger doing you a favor. And since it was the Xnet, I knew that all the strangers were friends, in some sense. 
> Where u located? 
The character who wound me up was called Lizanator, and it was female, though that didn't mean that it was a girl. Guys had some weird affinity for playing female characters. 
"Is there any one present who will assist us at the instrument?" he asked unexpectedly. 
Everybody looked at everybody else, and nobody moved; then there came a voice out of a far corner saying informally, "Rebecca, why don't you?" It was Mrs. Cobb. Rebecca could have played Mendon in the dark, so she went to the melodeon and did so without any ado, no member of her family being present to give her self-consciousness. 
The talk that ensued was much the usual sort of thing. Mr. Burch made impassioned appeals for the spreading of the gospel, and added his entreaties that all who were prevented from visiting in person the peoples who sat in darkness should contribute liberally to the support of others who could. But he did more than this. He was a pleasant, earnest speaker, and he interwove his discourse with stories of life in a foreign land,—of the manners, the customs, the speech, the point of view; even giving glimpses of the daily round, the common task, of his own household, the work of his devoted helpmate and their little group of children, all born under Syrian skies. 
Wow. “Your call, I guess.” 
He gave one of his trademark grunts. “Want to teach my girl right.” 
Courtney made a squeaking sound. I decided I’d better get her out of sight before Anton felt the urge to reach out his thumb and crush her like a bug. Besides, Anton’s reference to more weirdness was amplifying the alarm bells that had been going off in the back of my head ever since the cop had cornered us at the motel. 
The feeling got about a hundred times worse when we got to Courtney’s house. 
“That’s—that’s my...” She trailed off, her hand shaking as she pointed. Two white men in dark suits were standing on her doorstep talking, the front door cracked open behind them. As we watched, one of them pushed open the door and went inside. The other stubbed out a cigarette and followed a minute later. 
“What are they doing in my house?” whispered Courtney weakly. 
We were still a block away. I pulled the car over and turned off the engine. Courtney’s place was a little guesthouse-type cottage, and most of the blinds were shut, but one of the side windows was the kind of slatted glass that didn’t close all the way. Through it, we could see more suits—and they were in the midst of tossing her living room. Thoroughly. 
Ray leans back in his chair and pushes the visor out of his eyes. "Time I've got. It's answers that I want." 
"Detection of illegal hardware presence will not lead to a reconstruction of the DNA identifiers which you stipulate have been damaged. It will not assist in the search-match portion of this investigation. " 
"That, my friend, is what you think."   If he would bother to take the main lift up to the obs platform on a daily basis, Ray could see the shimmering orb that was New Holyoke expanding like an explosion of blue at which Paraclete aimed as though it was a gnarled and criminally un-aerodynamic spear. Under significant magnification, at this distance, he could just now pick out the floating platform of the docking port station in geosynchronous orbit over Blackheath Grange, planetary capital and relatively ancient human foothold, the St. Augustine of a true New World. He could study seas and mountain ranges, fascinate himself with topographical investigations of wide deserts and teeming jungles, make an acquaintance with flora and fauna that would astound him, and dazzle himself with the immensity of it all and the knowledge that most of it was still unnamed, unclassified, unsullied by human touch, human footprint, human presence. 
Adam Ladd looked at her in a way that made her put her hands over her face and laugh through them shyly as she said: "I know what you are thinking, Mr. Aladdin,—that my dress is an inch longer than last year, and my hair different; but I'm not nearly a young lady yet; truly I'm not. Sixteen is a month off still, and you promised not to give me up till my dress trails. If you don't like me to grow old, why don't you grow young? Then we can meet in the halfway house and have nice times. Now that I think about it," she continued, "that's just what you've been doing all along. When you bought the soap, I thought you were grandfather Sawyer's age; when you danced with me at the flag-raising, you seemed like my father; but when you showed me your mother's picture, I felt as if you were my John, because I was so sorry for you." 
"That will do very well," smiled Adam; "unless you go so swiftly that you become my grandmother before I really need one. You are studying too hard, Miss Rebecca Rowena!" 
"Thanks." He wonders if this passes as humor for the drone AI. Ray says, "When I speak to you normally, 
outside this interface and outside the normal command vocabulary-like I'm talking to you now— do you understand what I'm saying?" 
"No. This new code you've input, like Lawrence's old code, is a verbal-to-binary translator. I don't have authority to access translation programs on my own." 
"In other words, it only works when I initiate the dialogue utility." 
"Exactly." 
"Then how do you know what I want you to do?" 
"Because you modulate your vocal patterns to a higher volume, as though I'm deaf, which tells me you want me to do something specific. The rest is inspired guesswork based on hand signals and vocal commands that have been hardcoded into my response logic tree. " 
"Inspired guesswork?" 
"Lawrence's shorthand terminology for the sub-optimal input cue behavior expectation analysis and trigger mechanisms." 
"But you could turn it on..." 
"If you give me access to that segment of my data core." 
“Stay in touch, then. You know, call me, let me know you’re okay. Or you can always pick up when I ring. Can’t watch for excess crazy if we don’t talk regular.” He grinned at me, then reached over and squeezed my shoulder. “You’re a good kid, Russell.” 
I blinked. By proposing we watch each other, I had been thinking in terms of a mutually beneficial business arrangement, but Arthur seemed to be taking it as an overture of friendship. “I...if you say so,” I got out. 
“I do.” He gave my shoulder a final squeeze and then stood. “Talk soon, right?” 
A sort of tight feeling was growing through my chest and throat, the same type of squeezing discomfort I got in certain death situations. Except it was kind of a good feeling, which made no sense at all. “Yeah, okay,” I said. 
“Give you a buzz tomorrow,” said Arthur, and let himself out. 
I stayed sitting on the couch, staring at the floor and feeling very strange. 
I wasn’t used to having friends. Friends meant obligations, and complications, and effort- And people who checked in on me, another part of my brain pointed out. And had my back. And could watch for signs of psychic brainwashing. 
Her breath was coming in little pants now. She bit her lip to keep from screaming. 
She pulled her clothes back on as quietly as she could and slipped out into the night to find the wizard, clutching her pea light. Many times she’d walked toward his house in the night, but she’d always turned back. Now she had to see him. 
She passed three zombies in the dark, two dead on the ground and riddled with bullet holes, one leaning out a fifth-story window and screaming its incoherent rage out at the city. 
As she drew nearer to the wizard’s door, an unshakable fatal conclusion gripped her: he was long gone, shot or gassed, or simply moved to somewhere else. It had been months and months since he’d given her the printer-clothes and the dumplings and surely he was dead now. Who wasn’t? 
Her steps slowed as she came to his block. Each step was the work of half a minute or more. She didn’t want to see his old door hanging off its hinges, didn’t want to see the ruins of the brave curves and swoops of his flat and his furniture. 
Right? 
Animal panic took over and I fought, beating against the iron bar that was his arm, but I’d waited too long, and my movements were weak, feeble, the cells in my brain shutting down one by one, blinking out like the lights of a dying city—hypoxia and cell death—and from very far away I heard someone else say, “It’s the only option.” 
I jerked awake. I was on a thin mattress in the shithole apartment I’d driven to, dirty and bloodied bandages scattered on the floor from redressing my accumulating injuries. My hand, back, and ribs had started to throb, but I could tell that wasn’t what had woken me. 
Sleep had never been particularly restful for me, but in the last two years the nightmares had become worse and worse. More detailed and more crippling. When I wasn’t on the job, I couldn’t hope to stay asleep for more than half an hour before I woke, tangled and sweating and hyperventilating. Getting blackout drunk was the only thing that helped. 
And now I was having trouble while working. Work had always focused me, kept me sane, but now... 
The rutted dirt track wound through a pasture, then down into a wooded valley and up again, coming to an old farmhouse. 
A weather-beaten man wearing a faded John Deere cap with gray hair sticking out from under it stood on the porch holding a shot- gun. Nikko pulled in under an oak tree. Its dry coppery leaves chattered in a breeze as I carefully scooted out from under Wheeze’s swollen ankle and got out to face the person who I hoped was Zeke’s contact. If it wasn’t, things would get awkward. 
“I’m Zen,” I said, adding after a tense moment of being stared at by a guy with a gun, “Some people call me Shad.” 
He nodded slowly, once, leaned the gun against the porch rail- ing and came down the steps to inspect me more closely. That’s when I realized it was a woman. 
She put out a hand, finally. “Jane Shandy. I was expecting you.” She cocked an eyebrow at the car, like a question mark. 
“Why are they here?” 
“I can’t drive. They’re completely trustworthy. This is Wheeze.” 
She ducked down to peer into the backseat. “Let’s get you inside.” 
This was a good sign. She knew how to protect her privacy, 
even though she was all over the internet because of the cases she had won. It was also really annoying. 
It took two hours, but between us we narrowed it down to 23 possible addresses, then down to ten, then finally - <Kadabra> Bingo ! 
<Gargle> Why are you playing Bingo? The rest of us are doing actual work. 
<Kadabra> It's the one on Bedford. Smartass. 
<Gargle> You sure? 
<tork> I'm betting on that condo on Snelling . 
<Gargle> Why Bedford? 
<Kadabra> Triangulation. Prop tax, DMV, 
voter reg all match. 
<tork> too small for a big time lawyer. 
<Kadabra> You don't get rich defending the people she defends . 
<tork> But given her age? I think the condo is it . 
<DoDec> Wait, is that mail I see on the stoop? 
<Kadabra> yup and her name is on it. 
<Falstaff> HUH ?!? 
<tork> Those satellite images are old. 
<Kadabra> Not that old. Zoom in. 
<tork> Holy sh ! t your right <callmecheese> You mean ***you' re***, you idiot <inky> Who called the grammar police? 
> Finally, when he wasn't being a dick, he was a good guy to have in your corner. He was our rugby team's fullback, the baseball team's shortstop, the tank on our MMOG raids. You could rely on him. 
> So I'm going to miss him, weirdly. If he's gone for good. I wouldn't put it past him to stroll back onto campus someday and say, "What, what? I just...  overreact much?" 
Plenty of the notes ran in this direction, but this was the most articulate. Lawrence read it through three times before adding it to the file of useful stuff. It was a small pile. Still, Gerta kept forwarding him responses. 
> He mentioned a sister. Only once. A whole bunch of us were talking about how our families were really supportive of our coming to the Order, and after it had gone round the whole circle, he just kind of looked at the sky and said, "My sister thought I was an idiot to go inside. I asked her what she thought I should do and she said, 'If I was you, kid, I'd just disappear before someone disappeared me.'" Naturally we all wanted to know what he meant by that. "I'm not very good at bullshitting, and that's a vital skill in today's world. She was better at it than me, when she worked at it, but she was the kind of person who'd let her guard slip every now and then." 
"Has your mother made her jelly?" 
"She hasn't said." 
"She always had the knack o' writin' letters with nothin' in 'em. What's Mark broke sence I've been sick?" 
"Nothing at all, aunt Miranda." 
"Why, what's the matter with him? Gittin' lazy, ain't he? How 's John turnin' out?" 
"He's going to be the best of us all." 
"I hope you don't slight things in the kitchen because I ain't there. Do...  it upside down on the winder-sill?" 
"Yes, aunt Miranda." 
"It's always 'yes' with you, and 'yes' with Jane," groaned Miranda, trying to move her stiffened body; "but all the time I lay here knowin' there's things done the way I don't like 'em." 
There was a long pause, during which Rebecca sat down by the bedside and timidly touched her aunt's hand, her heart swelling with tender pity at the gaunt face and closed eyes. 
"I was dreadful ashamed to have you graduate in cheesecloth, Rebecca, but I couldn't help it no-how. You'll hear the reason some time, and know I tried to make it up to ye. I'm afraid you was a laughin'-stock!" 
At first I was relieved when I discovered that they weren't going to leave Mr Benson in charge of my social studies class. But the woman they found to replace him was my worst nightmare. 
She was young, just about 28 or 29, and pretty, in a wholesome kind of way. She was blonde and spoke with a soft southern accent when she introduced herself to us as Mrs Andersen. That set off alarm bells right away. I didn't know any women under the age of sixty that called themselves "Mrs." 
But I was prepared to overlook it. She was young, pretty, she sounded nice. She would be OK. 
She wasn't OK. 
"Under what circumstances should the federal government be prepared to suspend the Bill of Rights?" she said, turning to the blackboard and writing down a row of numbers, one through ten. 
"Never," I said, not waiting to be called on. This was easy. "Constitutional rights are absolute." 
"That's not a very sophisticated view." She looked at her seating-plan. "Marcus. For example, say a policeman conducts an improper search -- he goes beyond the stuff specified in his warrant. He discovers compelling evidence that a bad guy killed your father. It's the only evidence that exists. Should the bad guy go free?" 
“Oh, that!” he said. “But you know, Miss Moran, in these little villages any one who’s at all out of the ordinary is called crazy. I’ve noticed it before. I can soon find out for myself, though, can’t I? I thought, if you didn’t want me this morning, I’d go over there—pay a call, you know. I understand it’s three miles from here, so I shouldn’t be very long. I’d come back here for lunch.” 
“But, Captain Grey, you mustn’t think I expect you to—” 
“It’s not that,” he said. “Only you said you’d let me help you in your little job, and I want to!” He smiled down at her. “So,” he said, “I’ll be back for lunch;” and off he went. 
Lexy went to the window and looked out. She saw Captain Grey striding off up the muddy road, perfectly indifferent to the rain, and curiously elegant, in spite of his wet weather clothes. She was thinking of him with great friendliness and appreciation; but she was not thinking of him in the least as Mrs. Royce imagined she was thinking. 
Mrs. Royce stood in the doorway, watching Lexy watch Captain Grey, smiling and even beaming with benevolence; but she would have been disappointed if she had suspected what was in Lexy’s head. 
“Get off my rock,” it said. 
“I know you,” Robbie said. “I totally know you. Where do I know you from?” 
“I’m sure I don’t know.” 
And then he had it. 
“You’re the one. With the reef. You’re the one who—” The voice was the same, cold and distant. 
“It wasn’t me,” the voice said. It was anything but cold now. Panicked was more like it. 
Robbie had the reef on speed-dial. There were bits of it everywhere in the Noosphere. It liked to colonize. 
“I found him.” It was all Robbie needed to say. He skipped to Saturn’s rings, but the upload took long enough that he got to watch the coral arrive and grimly begin an argument with its creator—an argument that involved blasting the substrate one chunk at a time. 
The last instance of Robbie the Row-boat ran very, very slow and cool on a piece of unregarded computronium in Low Earth Orbit. He didn’t like to spend a lot of time or cycles talking with anyone else. He hadn’t made a backup in half a millennium. 
He liked the view. A little optical sensor on the end of his communications mast imaged the Earth at high resolution whenever he asked it to. Sometimes he peeked in on the Coral Sea. 
“Yes,” said Lexy. “Aren’t you the driver who took me up the day I came here?” 
“That’s me—only taxi in Wyngate. Took you out to the Queltons’, too. Hop in, miss!” 
His engine had stalled, and he set to work to crank it, while Lexy stood beside him. 
“Drive awfully fast, will you?” she asked. 
He was too busy to answer for a moment. Then, when his engine was running again, he straightened up and looked at her. 
“No, ma’am!” he said firmly. “No more of that for me! Not after what happened a while ago. No, ma’am! I had my lesson!” 
“An accident?” inquired Lexy politely. 
“Well,” he said slowly, “I s’pose it was; but the more I think it over, the more I dunno!” 
In the brightness cast by the headlights, Lexy could see his face very well, and the look on it gave her a strange little thrill of fear. It was not a handsome or intelligent face, but it was a very honest one, and she saw, written plain upon it, a very honest doubt and dismay. Like herself, he wasn’t sure. 
“It was this way,” he went on. “About three miles up Carterstown way there’s a bad piece of road. There’s a steep hill, and a crossroad cuts across the foot of it, and it’s too narrer for two cars to pass. It’s a bad piece, and I always been keerful there. I was keerful that night. I was coming along the crossroad, and I heard another car somewhere, and I sounded the horn two or three times before I come to the foot of the hill. Jest as I got there, and was turning up the hill, down comes another car, full tilt. I couldn’t git out o’ the way. There’s stone walls on both sides. I tried to back, but he crashed into me. I kind of fainted, I guess. My cab was all smashed up, and I was cut pretty bad with glass. They found me lying there about an hour after. The other fellow—he was killed.” He stopped for a minute. “If it hadn’t been fer his license number, nobody could ’a’ known who he was, he was so smashed up. Seems he was from New York, driving a taxi belonging to one of them big companies.” 
“But how awfully queer!” 
“You may well say ‘queer,’” said Mrs. Royce. “There she stays, out in that lonely place—never seeing a soul from one month’s end to another. She’s a young woman, too—young, an’ just as pretty as a picture.” 
“Then you are—” 
“I’m one of the few that has seen her,” said Mrs. Royce, with a sort of grim satisfaction. “That’s why I take a kind of special interest in her. I seen her the night the doctor brought her here to Wyngate a young bride. That’ll be three years ago this winter, but I remember it as plain as plain. There was a terrible snowstorm, and he couldn’t git out to his place, so he had to bring her here, and she sat right in this very room, just where you’re sitting.” 
Instinctively Lexy looked behind her. 
“I feel that same way myself—as if she was a ghost,” said Mrs. Royce solemnly. “Near three years ago, and her living only three miles off, an’ I’ve never set eyes on her again. I’ve never forgotten her, though, the sweet pretty young creature!” 
“But why do you suppose she lives like that?” 
"'Handsome is as handsome does,' say I. Rebecca never'll come to grief along of her beauty, that's certain, and there's no use in humoring her to think about her looks. I believe she's vain as a peacock now, without anything to be vain of." 
"She's young and attracted to bright things—that's all. I remember well enough how I felt at her age." 
"You was considerable of a fool at her age, Jane." 
"Yes, I was, thank the Lord! I only wish I'd known how to take a little of my foolishness along with me, as some folks do, to brighten my declining years." 
There finally was a pink gingham, and when it was nicely finished, aunt Jane gave Rebecca a delightful surprise. She showed her how to make a pretty trimming of narrow white linen tape, by folding it in pointed shapes and sewing it down very flat with neat little stitches. 
"It'll be good fancy work for you, Rebecca; for your aunt Miranda won't like to see you always reading in the long winter evenings. Now if you think you can baste two rows of white tape round the bottom of your pink skirt and keep it straight by the checks, I'll stitch them on for you and trim the waist and sleeves with pointed tape-trimming, so the dress'll be real pretty for second best." 
“I have no bounds,” she said helplessly. “No, that’s incorrect. Not hours, surely. Yes, that’s right. And I was out here when they left. Where they left me. So more than the time I used to move from here to the kitchen afterward.” 
Christ save me from literalists. “Sometime between ten minutes and two hours ago,” I translated into the phone, with a good helping of sarcasm. “But I bet I can narrow that down for you.” I strode back into the kitchen and surveyed the bloody washcloth filled with melting ice that Arthur had dumped in the sink. Enthalpy of fusion, the likely heat flow from Martinez’s body temperature to the ice cubes—if she’d come straight to the kitchen after the kidnappers left—“I’m guessing we missed them by twenty minutes to half an hour.” 
“Got it,” said Checker. “Okay, I’m hitting pay dirt. Five men, and they’ve got Professor Sonya. They’re taking her to a van—God, what a cliché. I’m tracking it. Call you back.” 
“Thanks.” I hung up and headed back into the living room. Arthur was trying to get a bandaged-up Martinez to sit down, but she was moving obliviously around the living room picking things up and setting them straight. 
I went inside and told Rhindquist to Get it in gear! And he just tossed me the paper he was reading. It said MEMO TO ALL EMPLOYEES REGARDING NEW SECURITY MEASURES. And underneath, it said, EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY ALL AC OUTLETS ARE TO BE COVERED WHEN NOT IN USE. 
We laughed and laughed and laughed, and then my watch blipped back on even though Rhindquist had turned it off! It said, "Laugh it up, retards!" in Tony's voice. 
Rhindquist put his arm around my shoulders and said Jap my prodigy, when you are right, you are right . He's the perfect man for the job. 
Sean had a way of getting his way -- a way of delivering argument that implied that everyone in earshot was savvy and bold, and that the diatribe-du-jour was directed at the Enemies of Art ranged without. His thesis advisor bought it every time. Sean turned in his due-diligence, a bunch of theses written in the last century: collected memoirs of the survivors of electroshock, lobotomies, thalidomide. His advisor signed off and within twenty-four hours, he was debarking in Orlando and renting a car to take him to the Home. 
I had to get closer, so crawled between two clumps of spiky evergreen shrubs, then straightened up beside the porch cau- tiously until my head was even with the flooring. It was like turn- ing up the volume. 
“You trust these guys?” Something moved a few inches from my face and I realized it was the toe of Danny’s boot, kicking snow off the porch. 
“They’re solid.” 
Something stung my arm. I thought at first it was just a clump of ice melting, but then a glowing ember drifted past my face and I realized some cigarette ash had landed on my sleeve. Not my sleeve, Jason’s expensive spy-shirt sleeve. I brushed it off quickly, 
hoping it hadn’t left a hole. 
“You hear that?” 
I froze. The shoe beside my head moved and the wooden ban- ister creaked as someone leaned over it. More snow sifted off the evergreens and down my neck. 
“What?” 
Seconds ticked by. “Must have been a squirrel.” 
“Tell me what you need. I’ll set it up,” Simon whee- dled. Danny grunted. Seriously, we need to get something real going.” 
I took a breath and started typing. 
<Shad> Totally. It would be great. 
<Gargle> Ossum. Anybody who wants in, DM me for the deets. 
S leeping in the next morning wasn’t an option, as it turned out. I woke out of a solid sleep, the kind that makes you feel encased in concrete, the kind you really have to fight to drag your- self out of. Someone was banging on my door, and it had a weird echo effect, my brain telling me the banging had been going on for a while. 
“Zen, the police are here,” I heard my aunt say in a loud but totally calm voice. Like it was something that happened every day. 
Time to get up and go to school. Time for breakfast. Time to be interrogated by the cops. 
I sat up with my heart pounding. I have two laptops, one that’s for general use, the other reserved for more sensitive work. I raised up my mat and slipped a finger into the loose floorboard that had a handy knothole in it. When I lifted up the floorboard, 
it made just enough space for me to slip in the for-my-eyes-only laptop, where it nestled among some weird insulation that looked like dirty snow. The power cord followed, and I rearranged the insulation to cover it up. It all felt bizarre, as if was having a para- noid nightmare, and I froze for a moment, stuck in the strangeness of it all. 
She nodded miserably. "For years," she said. 
Oh, God. Darryl, all these years, so in love with her, and the whole time she was looking at me, secretly wanting me. And then I ended up with Ange. Ange said that she'd always fought with Van. And I was running around, getting into so much trouble. 
"Van," I said. "Van, I'm so sorry." 
"Forget it," she said, looking away. "I know it can't be. I just wanted to do that once, just in case I never --" She bit down on the words. 
"Van, I need you to do something for me. Something important. I need you to meet with the journalist from the Bay Guardian, Barbara Stratford, the one who wrote the article. I need you to give her something." I explained about Masha's phone, told her about the video that Masha had sent me. 
"What good will this do, Marcus? What's the point?" 
"Van, you were right, at least partly. We can't fix the world by putting other people at risk. I need to solve the problem by telling what I know. I should have done that from the start. Should have walked straight out of their custody and to Darryl's father's house and told him what I knew. Now, though, I have evidence. This stuff -- it could change the world. This is my last hope. The only hope for getting Darryl out, for getting a life that I don't spend underground, hiding from the cops. And you're the only person I can trust to do this." 
“I’ll telephone for the taxi,” suggested Captain Grey. “He wasn’t coming back until half past five.” 
“Unfortunately we have no telephone,” said the doctor; “but I’ll drive Miss Moran home.” 
“No! I want to walk.” 
“Not in this rain,” the doctor protested, “and in your overwrought condition.” 
“I must!” She got up, the tears still streaming down her cheeks. “I must!” she said wildly. “Let me go! Please let me go!” 
The doctor turned to Captain Grey. In the midst of her unutterable misery and confusion, Lexy still heard and understood what he was saying. 
“In a case of hysteria—better to humor her—the exercise and the fresh air may help her.” 
The doctor’s wife helped Lexy with her hat and coat. She was very gentle, very kind, and genuinely concerned for her unhappy little guest. Lexy remembered afterward that Mrs. Quelton kissed her; but at the moment nothing mattered except to get away, to get out of that house into the fresh air. 
Without one backward glance she set off at a furious pace, splashing through the puddles, almost running. Captain Grey kept easily by her side with his long, lithe stride. Now and then he spoke to her, but she could not trust herself to answer just yet. The storm within her was subsiding. From time to time a sob broke from her, but the tears had stopped. 
“I never heard Caroline speak of any man,” said Lexy. 
She spoke firmly enough, and she was telling the truth; but she remembered that telephone call, and the memory brought a faint flush into her cheeks. Mrs. Enderby did not fail to notice it. 
“Listen!” she said. “There is one thing you can do—only one thing. You can hold your tongue. Tell no one. Let no one know that Caroline is not here. You understand?” 
“But aren’t you going to—” 
“I am going to do nothing. You understand—nothing. There is to be no scandal in my house.” 
“But, Mrs. Enderby!” 
“Hush! No one must know of this. To-morrow morning I shall have a letter from Caroline.” 
“Oh!” said Lexy, with a sigh of genuine relief. “Oh, then you know where she’s gone!” 
“I?” replied Mrs. Enderby. “I know nothing. This has come to me from a clear sky. I have always tried to safeguard my child. I—” 
She paused for a moment, and for the first time Lexy pitied her. 
“It is the American blood in her,” Mrs. Enderby...  her parents so; but in this country— She has gone with some fortune hunter. To-morrow I shall have a letter that she is married. ‘Please forgive me,’ she will say. ‘I am so happy. I, at nineteen, and of an ignorance the most complete, have made my choice without you.’ That is the American way, is it not? That is your ‘romance,’ eh? My one child—” 
Rio wasn’t the only resource I had. I contemplated for a moment, then dialed another number. 
“Mack’s Garage,” said a gravelly voice on the other end. 
“Anton, it’s Cas Russell. I need some information.” 
He grunted. “Usual rates.” 
“Yeah. I need everything you can get on the word Pithica.” 
“Spelling?” 
“I’m not sure. There might be some ties to Colombian drug runners. And the authorities might be investigating already.” 
He grunted again. “Two hours.” 
“Got it.” I hung up. Anton was one of several information brokers in the city, and I’d hired him not infrequently over the past couple of years, whenever I wanted to know more than a standard Internet search would give me. If “Pithica” had a paper trail, I was betting he could find it. 
“Come on,” I said to Courtney, shepherding her back to the car. “We’re going to hit rush hour as it is.” 
“Do you have cash, or is your money all in the bank?” I asked Courtney as we inched forward through the eternal parking lot of the 405 freeway, the heat beating down through the windshield and slowly cooking us. The temperature had catapulted up by a full thirty-four degrees Fahrenheit with the rising sun as we finally headed into the city: Los Angeles at its finest. Our current junkpot car didn’t have air conditioning, and the still air and stalled traffic meant even rolling down the windows didn’t help one whit. 
God, I needed to sleep. 
I vaguely heard Checker and Pilar talking in hushed tones, but my head felt wrapped in layers of cotton. Narcotic painkillers. Right. 
An itch in my brain—something else, something I had to remember to do. I dredged through the layers of cotton wool. “Hey. Checker.” 
He moved over and touched my hand. “I’m here.” 
“The pyro dude. D.J. I don’t think he was there. I don’t think they got him.” 
He paused for a long moment. “Okay. Thanks.” 
“You want to talk about it?” 
He squeezed my hand briefly. “Maybe another time. Go to sleep now.” 
I drifted off on Checker’s couch, and for once I didn’t dream. God bless the good drugs. 
When I woke up, Checker and Pilar were absent, but Arthur was sitting across the room working on a laptop. When I made a noise and sat up, he hurried over, snagging the bottle of painkillers and a glass of water off the end table. “Here. How you feeling?” 
I waved off the pills. Not that I didn’t need them—everything ached, and my muscles felt stitched onto my bones as if I were a poor version of Pinocchio. But I wanted to be awake. “Been better,” I said. “I guess I’ve also been worse, though.” I leaned back on the couch. Sitting up was about as far as I felt I could manage for the moment. “What’s going on? What was wrong with Martinez? Is she okay now?” 
“I’d be honored.” 
“Do either of you have experience with film editing?” Sarahh asked, glancing from Nikko to me. 
“Nikko does.” 
“Just little animations,” he said, getting red in the face again. 
“Awesome animations,” I said. 
“I’ll need an assistant tonight. Could run late. Would you be up for it?” 
He shrugged, aiming for nonchalance, but failing. “Sure, no problem.” 
“How can we get these young people into the audience?” Sarah asked. 
“I have extra exhibitor passes,” Jason said. 
“Nikko, I need you to take notes about what parts of Ian’s talk are most striking, the bits you think belong in the blitzdoc we’ll be making tonight. Zen, I assume you want to hear the talk, too?” 
“I’d like to, but there will be Homeland Security types in the audience. I’d better not.” 
She clapped her hands “Disguises! I love disguises.” She had her luggage with her, and pulled out some clothes that were totally unlike what I usually wear, being more grown-up and sophisticated and no doubt way more expensive than anything I’d ever worn. She spent fifteen minutes fooling around with my hair, combing and curling and muttering “Love your hair, girl,” which I didn’t really believe, but when she was finished I kind of loved it myself. 
The countryman came a step nearer. 
“I keep thinking about it,” he said in a half whisper. “This is the queer thing about it, miss. That there car didn’t start till I got to the foot of the hill ! The engine was just racing, and the car wasn’t moving along—I know that. It was as if he’d been waiting up there for me, and then down he came as if he meant”—the speaker paused again—“to kill me,” he ended. 
“But—” Lexy began, and then stopped. 
She had a very odd feeling that this story was somehow of great importance to her, but that she must put it away, that she must keep it in her mind until later. This wasn’t the time to think about it. 
“Joe,” she said, “I want to hear more about this—all about it; but not now. I’m too tired.” 
He gave himself a shake, like a dog. Then he turned to her with a slow, good-natured smile. 
“I guess you are!” he said. “Lucky for you I just happened to be late to-night, taking them Ainsly girls ’way out to their house after a dance. Hop in, miss!” 
Lexy got in, and they set off. She leaned back and closed her eyes, but they flew open again as if of their own accord. There was something she wanted to see. Through the glass she could see Joe’s burly shoulders, a little hunched—Joe, who, like herself, wasn’t sure. 
“If she found it, someone else will,” I said, aware I was blatantly contradicting what I’d told Arthur and Halliday earlier, but feeling too vicious to care. “And you’re making me hope that person does as much damage with it as they possibly can, because it’s your fault we won’t be ready.” 
I started to stomp off, then turned back and added to Checker: “And you. You’ll let one old woman decide the fate of the whole world without a fight, but you won’t let me decide what’s right for my own life. Fuck you. I’m done.” 
Checker tried to stutter a response, but I was already striding away. 
I didn’t need them. I’d worked on my own long before I’d ever met Arthur or Checker. I would find Martinez somehow, with or without Halliday’s help, and I would pry the goddamn proof out of her if I had to lock her in a room and extract it. 
Then I’d figure out if I wanted to share it. 
I made it back to my car and stood there on the darkened street. I wasn’t sure where to start. 
Fuck. In the past two years, I’d started to take it for granted I had Arthur and Checker around. I had a secure computer back in my apartment, courtesy of Checker, but I wasn’t much better than basic search engines. 
And nothing more. All the warmth of her anger had gone, and in its place had come an overwhelming depression. For all her sturdiness and courage, she was young and generous and sensitive, and those words of Mrs. Enderby’s hurt her cruelly. 
She sat very still, looking out of the window. They had left the city now, and were on the Boston road. It was a sweet, fresh April day, and under a bright and windy sky the countryside was showing the first soft green of spring. 
Lexy remembered. She remembered the things she had so valiantly tried to forget—the dear, happy days that were past, spring days like this, in her own home, with her mother and father; early morning rides on her little black mare, and coming home to the old house, to the people who loved her; her father’s laugh, her mother’s wonderful smile, the friendly faces of the servants. 
She was not old enough or wise enough as yet, for these memories to be a solace to her. They were pain—nothing but pain. There was no one now to love her, or even to be interested in her. She had cut herself off from her old friends and gone out alone, like a poor, rash, gallant little knight-errant, into the wide world to seek her fortune. Caroline had disappeared, and Mrs. Enderby had dismissed her with savage contempt. She would have to go out now and look for a new job. 
Now he’s in jail for staying stupid things to the wrong person.” 
“But she has a child to care for,” Sarah said to me earnestly. 
“She needs to keep her family safe. Surely you can — ” 
“What about my brother?” 
Sarah shrugged helplessly. The kettle started to shriek. “Here, 
I’ll get that,” she said, handing Liam to his mother who hugged him close, stroking his hair. 
“Your brother sounds nice,” Marita said. 
“He is. Just not very smart. When I was little, I thought he could take care of everything. But he can’t even take care of him- self. That’s why ...” I choked up. Anger would have felt better. It usually came to my rescue when something made me feel this bad. 
But I didn’t feel angry. Just disappointed and sad. And confused, 
because I didn’t think Sarah would give up so easily. So close, and it was all falling apart. 
“The problem with Danny is he’s scared.” Marita stroked the baby’s curls and smiled down at him when he squirmed and grabbed a handful of her hair. “Oh, he brags about how he can blow things up, but he doesn’t really know anything about explo- sives. His uncle took him to watch a demolition once, but he never learned how to do any of that himself. He tells stories because he wants other guys to look up to him. Stupid macho stuff.” 
“Everybody does. But it’s good for you to have a chance to interact with other people your age.” 
“I interact with them online all the time.” 
“It’s not the same as face to face.” 
“You got that right.” I...  is a lot less annoying.” 
A ctually, I wasn’t too bummed about the group project. It was a dumb assignment for a dumb teacher who gave us so many instructions that every assignment was like assembling a piece of Ikea furniture that was all pre-cut and just had to be put together according to a million detailed steps. The grade was totally based on how well you could follow instructions, and the finished prod- ucts were pointless. With Ikea, at least you ended up with a book- case or a table. 
The good news was that Marcella was on our team, and she was good at instructions, though terrible at everything else. She would make sure we got it done on time and didn’t miss any of the pointless little steps or end up banging it together like furniture that works but has a few missing nuts and bolts, getting points off for it. We also had Dave, who doubled down on being not good at things. It was his career path. He was so good at letting everyone else do all the work, I was sure he’s be a CEO of something one day. 
I looked down. "I think that there's a real danger that BIGMAC may be wrong about you. That you might decide that Rollover and AI and the rest aren't as important as the safe, sane running of your Institute without any freaky surprises from rogue superintelligences." 
"I'm not angry at you," she said. I nodded. She sounded angry. "I am glad that you've got the maturity to appreciate that there are global priorities that have to do with the running of this whole Institute that may be more significant than the concerns of any one lab or experiment. Every researcher at this Institute believes that her project, her lab, has hidden potential benefits for the human race that no one else fully appreciates. That's good. That's why I hired them. They are passionate and they are fully committed to their research. But they can't all be vital. They can't all be irreplaceable. Do you follow me?" 
I thought of researchnet and the user flags for importance. I thought of programmers and the way they tagged their alerts. I nodded. 
"They should be exiting the main lift as we speak. " 
"Do you have your command network set up on Omicron?"  "We just patched into the ship systems." 
Ray nods, takes another moment to steady his voice. "Do you think you could jump onto the net and find me the code sequence that opens the door to Primary Reactor Control?" 
It is Becker's turn to pause. "Sure. Yeah." 
"That's good. There doesn't seem to be anyone around to let us in. And I should probably report that the status panels inside seem to be flipping themselves to a disturbing shade of yellow." There, in fact, goes another one. 
Peripherally, Ray sees Kilgore and Rodriguez stiffen, as though someone has just poked them with a needle. 
Ray knows the feeling. He's beginning to feel stiff all over. In the time it takes Becker to come up with the string of digits, and the additional seconds it takes Ray to steady the tremors in his hands and punch them in, 
For some reason that Ray can't imagine, Rodriguez thumbs the door closed again and locks it down. 
“I’ll see what I can do.” 
“Give me your number so I can reach you.” He leaned close and whispered it to me as if he was a spy passing vital information. 
I saved the contact and smiled at him. “Thanks, Simon. It’s good to know someone who gets it. Who’s willing to do something more meaningful than post Facebook updates.” 
“I’ll see what I can do to get you into this meeting. Call me later, like after six.” He checked the time. “Hey, I hate to bail when you’re having a bad day, but I have some business I need to attend to. Will you be okay?” 
“Yeah. This dumb homework will keep my mind off my prob- lems. And it helps to know that somebody else thinks like I do.” I tried to look full of gratitude. “It means a lot.” 
“I got your back, kiddo.” He slung on his coat, squeezed my shoulders, and left without bussing his dishes - of course. Simon Meyer was too cool for menial tasks like that. 
I opened my laptop and refreshed the screen. Simon’s green dot was on the move, heading for the West Bank. I was just think- ing about how I could follow him on my bike without him notic- ing me when my phone rang. It was Monica. 
“No, that’s nonsense,” she thought. “There couldn’t be, so soon—although I don’t know how often he gives her that priceless tonic.” 
Suddenly she wanted to laugh. She had a very vivid memory of Dr. Quelton tapping that bottle with his finger, and saying to Captain Grey that he had a preparation in there which would make his fortune, if he chose. 
“It wouldn’t now,” she thought, struggling with suppressed laughter. 
There was nothing in that bottle now but water. Just before dinner she had run up to the cupola, emptied its contents into the sink, and filled it from the tap. 
The idea had come to her when she overheard the two men talking. It had seemed to her then a plain and obvious duty to destroy the drug that so horribly affected Mrs. Quelton. Fate had allowed her to see which bottle it was. Fate gave her an undisturbed half hour when the doctor and Captain Grey were out; and, to make her plan quite perfect, the liquid in the bottle was colorless and almost without odor. 
She had thought it possible that the doctor would not notice the substitution until his unhappy wife had had at least a chance to return to a normal condition. Lexy had meant to wait and to watch, and, when the moment came, to speak to Mrs. Quelton. She had thought that she could warn the doctor’s wife, and implore her not to submit to that hideous domination. 
Then something glanced off my face, the wooden banister of the stair, which had mysteriously come up to meet me. I turned and felt his body beneath mine, arms flailing, a soft landing, till we rolled and I was beneath him again. 
I struck out, a right fist, and he fell away, his bracelet disentangling as he tumbled farther down the stairs. Then I rose and tried to take a step, but it wasn't there. In the pitch dark the angle was wrong, off by just inches, and as I toppled forward into empty space I reached out, taking a handful of dark air. 
Finally I felt something clenching my wrist, and the next thing I knew I was being swung around. I twisted sideways one last time, but then my head hit the wall. The hard marble caught me just above the ear, and I saw the darkness of the space grow brilliantly light, then transmute to vibrant colors. 
Or maybe the hall lights had come back on. I only know I felt a set of arms encircle me. 
"Come," Alex Goddard was saying as he lifted me up. "They're ready." 
But this is all just ramping up for the real project, really. He's configuring his system for optimum interface. 
With a word and a passcode authentication, he slides through a dead end portal, off the network proper and into an end-user box, what looks like another terminal. Except it isn't a terminal, but a server array. In fact, a server array that he could see with his actual and organically constructed eyes if he took the helmet off. 
He's just hacked into the diagnostic unit across the room. 
He pauses for several seconds, reviewing his plans for logical failures. It makes his palms sweat. The first thing he does is sort the file structure into server array functions and unit functions. The unit functions on this  machine are a small subset with two master files, one marked simply Input Data and the other 7244 Ident Struct. The first file is massive, pregnant with uploaded data, a storm of binary records. The second is small, 
manageable, and Ray immediately creates a backup copy. 
I pulled off the freeway and found the seediest-looking neighborhood I could to park the van in. We both got out, Tresting giving his door handle and seatbelt a quick wipe down with a napkin as he did so. 
“I guess this is good-bye, then,” I said. 
We stood awkwardly. 
Then Tresting spoke, with an obvious effort. “Thanks again for saving my life, back at my office.” 
I shrugged a little too harshly. “We’re even.” 
“Russell.” 
“Yeah?” 
“Think about what I said, okay? You’re a good kid. You ain’t gotta be like this.” 
“I like how I am just fine,” I said. 
“Take care of yourself.” 
I shrugged again. 
He turned and walked away, leaving me on a graffitied street corner that smelled vaguely of human urine. My adrenaline had faded into listless fatigue. 
Well, I supposed it was time to steal another car and head to one of my bolt holes. Cas Russell, ever prepared. 
I sighed. 
Why did people have to be so complicated? I thought of Dawna Polk’s superpowered human relations ability, and a spark of jealousy twinged. Dawna Polk would have known how to say exactly the right thing so that Arthur understood her. He’d have been eating out of her hand. 
<zen> I'm sorry I'm being so messed up about things . 
<wheeze> What's messed up is that stuff like that happens. Not you. 
<zen> He actually tried to apologize to me later. I ran into him in a bookstore last year and he said "I'm sorry you were so upset." 
WTF? ? ! ! 
<wheeze> And yet you let him live? 
<zen> I was feeling generous. Also, I was afraid I'd get carried away and destroy the bookstore . 
<wheeze> I would consider that acceptable collateral damage. 
<zen> I've been thinking - would it be okay if I visited you instead? 
<wheeze> That would be incredibly great. 
<zen> Don't you have to ask Jane Shandy? 
<wheeze> I'll just hide her shotgun. (Not really. She says it's fine.) 
<zen> And can Nikko and Bree come? Because Bree's spring break is coming up and she has a car . 
<wheeze> Bring all your friends . 
<zen> That *is* all my friends. Counting you . 
<zen> Well actually, not all. I'll introduce you to the rest when we get there. 
I was nervous about this visit. We hadn’t seen each other since I left him in the armchair beside the wood stove, his sprained ankle propped up on a stool. But we had gotten close over the past few months. Really close. Like, he-knows-all-of-my-secrets close. 
“You got me,” he said. “So tell her you met a wizard.” 
She thought about what her mother would say to that, especially when that was the answer to the question Where have you been? “I’ll tell her I met someone from the city,” she said. 
“You’re a clever girl,” he said. 
One week after her father died, Valentine stopped carrying water. 
“There’s not enough food,” her mother said, over a breakfast of nothing but dried fruit—the cereal was gone. “If you—” she swallowed and looked out the window. “If you dig in the trenches, we’ll get 150 grams of bread a day.” 
Valentine looked at Trover. He hadn’t had a tantrum in days. He didn’t cry or even speak much anymore. 
“I’ll dig.” 
She dug. 
Six months after her father died, Valentine stood in the queue for her bread. It was now the full heat of summer and the clothes the wizard had given her had fallen to bits the way all printer clothes did. She was wearing her father’s old trousers, cut off just below the knee, and one of his shirts, with the sleeves and collar cut off. All to let a little of the lazy air in and to let a little of the sluggish sweat out. She was dirty and tired the way she always was at day’s end. 
"Did you tease him, or make him buy it?" 
"Now, aunt Jane, how could I make a big grown-up man buy anything if he didn't want to? He needed the soap dreadfully as a present for his aunt." 
Miss Jane still looked a little unconvinced, though she only said, "I hope your aunt Miranda won't mind, but you know how particular she is, Rebecca, and I really wish you wouldn't do anything out of the ordinary without asking her first, for your actions are very queer." 
"There can't be anything wrong this time," Rebecca answered confidently. "Emma Jane sold her cakes to her own relations and to uncle Jerry Cobb, and I went first to those new tenements near the lumber mill, and then to the Ladds'. Mr. Ladd bought all we had and made us promise to keep the secret until the premium came, and I've been going about ever since as if the banquet lamp was inside of me all lighted up and burning, for everybody to see." 
Rebecca's hair was loosened and falling over her forehead in ruffled waves; her eyes were brilliant, her cheeks crimson; there was a hint of everything in the girl's face,—of sensitiveness and delicacy as well as of ardor; 
“It doesn’t matter,” I said desperately. Why couldn’t he hate me? “She’s a mind-reader! She got everything!” 
Rio raised his eyebrows. “She had me her prisoner and could not use anything you gave her to any effect. What does that tell you?” 
It didn’t matter whether she had hurt him with it; I had still betrayed him. I turned away. 
Rio sighed, the barest susurration of breath. “I promise you it is of no consequence to me. Melodrama does not suit you, Cas.” 
Melodrama? I had just proved myself completely untrustworthy, and he was calling it melodrama? 
“In fact, considering why I am insusceptible to her influence, had you been able to resist her, you would now have a far more significant worry.” 
I still felt wretched, but that almost got a laugh out of me. 
“Now, humor me, Cas. Take me through your discussion with her. I don’t believe there is any cause for concern.” 
Now that I was awake, the hours passed slowly. I discovered I detested convalescing. It was extremely boring. The one saving grace was that I was still technically on a job, at least enough to satisfy my messed-up brain. Despite Rio’s and my discussion about what had gone down with Dawna, I still hadn’t talked to him or Arthur about what our next step would be regarding Pithica. 
Sarah Crenshaw, 3B. 
Williams found her, I thought. And she was traveling First Class. 
What caught my eye next was the name of the person sitting in 3A, the seat right next to hers. A. Godford. Probably a computer misprint. Or maybe it was the name he used when he traveled. So if it was him, which it surely was, the bastard didn't even try to hide it. 
I just stood there, thinking. Maybe you get one big-time coincidence in life, and if so, this must be mine. Sarah and I had both found Alex Goddard. Or he'd found us. Other women came and went through Quetzal Manor, but we were different. She'd escaped from him, half dead but now he'd sent Ramos to bring her back. It was the one way he could be sure to keep me under his control. But again, why? Was it just to stop my film, or was there more to the story? 
"Morgy," Lou groaned "that son of a bitch took her to­night. I just know it." 
That was my conclusion precisely, though I hadn't been planning to say it to him, at least not yet. 
"How can you be so sure?" 
Such a time came to Rebecca, and her bright spirit flagged when the letter was received saying that her position in Augusta had been filled. There was a mutinous leap of the heart then, a beating of wings against the door of the cage, a longing for the freedom of the big world outside. It was the stirring of the powers within her, though she called it by no such grand name. She felt as if the wind of destiny were blowing her flame hither and thither, burning, consuming her, but kindling nothing. 
Threads of joy ran in and out of the gray tangled web of daily living. There was the attempt at odd moments to make the bare little house less bare by bringing in out-of-doors, taking a leaf from Nature's book and noting how she conceals ugliness wherever she finds it. Then there was the satisfaction of being mistress of the poor domain; of planning, governing, deciding; of bringing order out of chaos; of implanting gayety in the place of inert resignation to the inevitable. Another element of comfort was the children's love, for they turned to her as flowers to the sun, drawing confidently on her fund of stories, serene in the conviction that there was no limit to Rebecca's power of make-believe. In this, and in yet greater things, little as she realized it, the law of compensation was working in her behalf, for in those anxious days mother and daughter found and knew each other as never before. 
I was in total darkness now and I strained my ears to hear what was going on with my friends. I heard them shouting through the muffling canvas of the bag, and then I was being impersonally hauled to my feet by my wrists, my arms wrenched up behind my back, my shoulders screaming. 
Someone went upside my head again. It felt like they used a baton or something -- it was harder than anyone had ever hit me in the head before. My eyes swam and watered and I literally couldn't breathe through the pain. A moment later, I caught my breath, but I didn't say anything. I'd learned my lesson. 
Who were these clowns? They weren't wearing insignia. Maybe they were terrorists! I'd never really believed in terrorists before -- I mean, I knew that in the abstract there were terrorists somewhere in the world, but they didn't really represent any risk to me. There were millions of ways that the world could kill me -- starting with getting run down by a drunk burning...  infinitely more likely and immediate than terrorists. Terrorists killed a lot fewer people than bathroom falls and accidental electrocutions. Worrying about them always struck me as about as useful as worrying about getting hit by lightning. 
"I have my own occasional hours of doubt," she answered, "but surely its disadvantages are reduced to a minimum with—children! That is a very impressive sight which you are privileged to witness, Mr. Ladd. The folk in Cambridge often gloated on the spectacle of Longfellow and Lowell arm in arm. The little school world of Wareham palpitates with excitement when it sees the senior and the junior editors of The Pilot walking together!" 
The day before Rebecca started for the South with Miss Maxwell she was in the library with Emma Jane and Huldah, consulting dictionaries and encyclopaedias. As they were leaving they passed the locked cases containing the library of fiction, open to the teachers and townspeople, but forbidden to the students. 
They looked longingly through the glass, getting some little comfort from the titles of the volumes, as hungry children imbibe emotional nourishment from the pies and tarts inside a confectioner's window. Rebecca's eyes fell upon a new book in the corner, and she read the name aloud with delight: " The Rose of Joy . Listen, girls; isn't that lovely? The Rose of Joy . It looks beautiful, and it sounds beautiful. What does it mean, I wonder?" 
I’d claim ignorance later. No idea you wanted me to stay and give a statement about the biggest information theft since the Rosenbergs. No sir, no ma’am, no idea at all. 
The sun was setting, suffusing the city in soft twilight. Driving through the mountains dipped me into deep shadow before catapulting me back into the last rays of the day. It would have been pretty, if I’d been in a mindset to care about such things. 
I didn’t know where I was going till I’d gotten there. 
A graveyard. 
My feet had stopped itching. 
I turned off the car and sat for a moment. What the hell was going on? 
The night was dark and quiet. 
I was supposed to be on a job still. I had to wait until Arthur did his thing and then work with Checker on finding Martinez. And somewhere in there give another statement to the DHS. And probably help Halliday rewrite the proof again, unless after doing the thing twice she now had it memorized. 
What the hell was I doing at a graveyard? 
I got out of Arthur’s car and slammed the door. The gate to the cemetery was locked, but that was no problem. A couple of force vectors had me over the iron fence and landing on the wet grass inside. 
"That niece of yours is the most remarkable girl I have seen in years," said Mr. Burch when the door closed. 
"She seems to be turnin' out smart enough lately, but she's consid'able heedless," answered Miranda, "an' most too lively." 
"We must remember that it is deficient, not excessive vitality, that makes the greatest trouble in this world," returned Mr. Burch. 
"She'd make a wonderful missionary," said Mrs. Burch; "with her voice, and her magnetism, and her gift of language." 
"If I was to say which of the two she was best adapted for, I'd say she'd make a better heathen," remarked Miranda curtly. 
"My sister don't believe in flattering children," hastily interpolated Jane, glancing toward Mrs. Burch, who seemed somewhat shocked, and was about to open her lips to ask if Rebecca was not a "professor." 
Mrs. Cobb had been looking for this question all the evening and dreading some allusion to her favorite as gifted in prayer. She had taken an instantaneous and illogical dislike to the Rev. Mr. Burch in the afternoon because he called upon Rebecca to "lead." She had seen the pallor creep into the girl's face, the hunted look in her eyes, and the trembling of the lashes on her cheeks, and realized the ordeal through which she was passing. Her prejudice against the minister had relaxed under his genial talk and presence, but feeling that Mrs. Burch was about to tread on dangerous ground, she hastily asked her if one had to change cars many times going from Riverboro to Syria. She felt that it was not a particularly appropriate question, but it served her turn. 
Arthur will be coming. He will. 
“You give her a heart attack, you’ll never get your proof.” My tongue was still thick and languid in my mouth, but the words had enough shape to make sense. 
“Can I tell you a secret?” He leaned close, his breath hot on my ear. “I doubt you’ll be a very good incentive. But I don’t really care.” He pushed off and walked away. 
Yeah. I’d pissed him off. Big time. 
And it wasn’t going to work out so well for me. 
“Is she all right?” came Martinez’s grandmotherly voice. 
“How nice that you care,” said the Lancer. He’d retreated to a spot between us, leaning on his cane, the meditation balls going in his other hand. “Dr. Martinez, you’ve told me you won’t part with certain information on a proof that—” he brayed his hyena laugh—“that I know you have. But I think we can change your mind.” He gestured at me. “We’re going to start by torturing your friend here, who so conveniently made herself available. If that doesn’t work, we’ll go out and find another one of your friends, or we’ll find your family, any family you have—children, grandchildren, newborn babies...do you want that?” 
She came out of the crowd and bounded toward us. Darryl has had a thing for Van since forever, and she's sweet enough to pretend she doesn't know it. She gave me a hug and then moved onto Darryl, giving him a quick sisterly kiss on the cheek that made him go red to the tops of his ears. 
The two of them made a funny pair: Darryl is a little on the heavy side, though he wears it well, and he's got a kind of pink complexion that goes red in the cheeks whenever he runs or gets excited. He's been able to grow a beard since we were 14, but thankfully he started shaving after a brief period known to our gang as "the Lincoln years." And he's tall. Very, very tall. Like basketball player tall. 
Meanwhile, Van is half a head shorter than me, and skinny, with straight black hair that she wears in crazy, elaborate braids that she researches on the net. She's got pretty coppery skin and dark eyes, and she loves big glass rings the size of radishes, which click and clack together when she dances. 
Miss Dearborn had not thought of it before, but on reflection she believed the subjunctive mood was a "sad" one and "if" rather a sorry "part of speech." 
"Give me some more examples of the subjunctive, Rebecca, and that will do for this afternoon," she said. 
"If I had not loved mackerel I should not have been thirsty;" said Rebecca with an April smile, as she closed her grammar. "If thou hadst loved me truly thou wouldst not have stood me up in the corner. If Samuel had not loved wickedness he would not have followed me to the water pail." 
"And if Rebecca had loved the rules of the school she would have controlled her thirst," finished Miss Dearborn with a kiss, and the two parted friends. 
The little schoolhouse on the hill had its moments of triumph as well as its scenes of tribulation, but it was fortunate that Rebecca had her books and her new acquaintances to keep her interested and occupied, or life would have gone heavily with her that first summer in Riverboro. She tried to like her aunt Miranda (the idea of loving her had been given up at the moment of meeting), but failed ignominiously in the attempt. She was a very faulty and passionately human child, with no aspirations towards being an angel of the house, but she had a sense of duty and a desire to be good,—respectably, decently good. Whenever she fell below this self-imposed standard she was miserable. She did not like to be under her aunt's roof, eating bread, wearing clothes, and studying books provided by her, and dislike her so heartily all the time. She felt instinctively that this was wrong and mean, and whenever the feeling of remorse was strong within her she made a desperate effort to please her grim and difficult relative. 
Now I had an indie browser running, I needed an indie network connection. The school's network logged every click in and out of the system, which was bad news if you were planning on surfing over to the Harajuku Fun Madness site for some extra-curricular fun. 
The answer is something ingenious called TOR -- The Onion Router. An onion router is an Internet site that takes requests for web-pages and passes them onto other onion routers, and on to other onion routers, until one of them finally decides to fetch the page and pass it back through the layers of the onion until it reaches you. The traffic to the onion-routers is encrypted, which means that the school can't see what you're asking for, and the layers of the onion don't know who they're working for. There are millions of nodes -- the program was set up by the US Office of Naval Research to help their people get around the censorware in countries like Syria and China, which means that it's perfectly designed for operating in the confines of an average American high school. 
#######And the meal was definitely fit for royalty. Soon we were working our way through a long-forgotten medley of piquant flavors that swept through my senses as though I were in another world. There was pit-roasted...  turkey. One calabash bowl set forth coriander-flavored kidney beans; another had half a dozen varieties of green legumes all in a rich turtle broth; a third offered va­nilla-seasoned sweet potatoes; others had various forest tu­bers steamed with chiles. We even had a delicious honey wine, like heavenly nectar, served in red clay bowls, that made me want to have sex right on the table. There with Steve, the unexpected juxtaposition of spices and flavors made every bite, every aroma, a new sensual experience. (Let me say right here he's a cooking fanatic, whereas I've been known to burn water. I think it's the new division of labor in post-feminist America.) Finally the Mayan waitresses brought out cups of a chocolate dessert drink from ancient times, cocoa beans roasted, ground, and boiled with sugarcane. The whole event was pure heaven. 
"It's our lobbying firm. The ones who invented the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth. Remember them? It was a stink when we hired them, but Google couldn't afford to be 'that company full of registered Democrats' forever. We needed friends in Congress. These guys could do it for us." 
"But they're ruining politicians' careers!" 
"Yeah. They certainly are. And who benefits when they do that?" 
Laurie spoke, at last. "Other politicians." 
He felt his pulse beating in his temples. "We should tell someone." 
"Yeah," Maya said. "How? They know everything about us. They can see every search. Every email. Every time we've been caught on the webcams. Who is in our social network -- you know that if you've got more than fifteen Orkut buddies, it's statistically certain that you're no more than three steps to someone who's contributed money to a 'terrorist' cause? Remember the airport? Imagine a lot more of that." 
"Maya," he said, carefully. "I think you're over-reacting. You don't need to go to Mexico. You can just quit. We can do a startup together or something. Or you can move to the country and raise dogs. Whatever. This is crazy --" 
"Right," she said. "Blankets and pillows. Elevate their feet and wrap them up good." She stood up and staggered a step or two before Damian caught her, and the crowd made a noise that was at once approving and scandalized. 
"Get me to the sea," she said. "I need to soak my head." 
So he walked her into the water, he still in his suit-pants and dress shirt and tie, and held onto her while she dunked her head and swirled a mouthful of salt water in her mouth. 
"Where are the fucking paramedics?" she said, as she sloshed back out with him. 
"There," he said, and pointed at the horizon, where a Coast Guard clipper was zooming for the shore. "The cell-phone was dead, so I fired up a couple flares. You didn't hear them?" 
"No," she said. He could have set off a cannon and she wouldn't have noticed it. 
She got back to the shore just in time to see the surfer convulse. She was on him in a second, kneeling at his side, doing airway-breathing-circulation checks, finding no pulse, and slamming him onto his back and beginning CPR. 
He looked in the Living Room, but there was no one there, so he began to check out the other conference rooms, which ran the gamut from super-conservative to utter madness. He found them in the Ceile, with its barn-board floors, its homey stone hearth, and the gimmicked sofas that looked like unsprung old thrift-store numbers, but which sported adaptive genetic-algorithm-directed haptics that adjusted constantly to support you no matter how you flopped on them, so that you could play at being a little kid sprawled carelessly on the cushions no matter how old and cranky your bones were. 
On the Ceile's sofa were Brautigan, Ria, and a woman he hadn't met before. She was somewhere between Brautigan and Ria's age, but with that made-up, pulled-tight appearance of someone who knew the world wouldn't take her as seriously if she let one crumb of weakness escape from any pore or wrinkle. He thought he knew who this must be, and she confirmed it when she spoke. 
"Leon," she said. "I'm glad you're here." He knew that voice. It was the voice on the phone that had recruited him and brought him to New York and told him where to come for his first day on the job. It was the voice of Jennifer Torino, and she was technically his boss. "Carmela said that you often worked from here so I was hoping today would be one of the days you came by so we could chat." 
"Just a little," she confessed. "But vacation comes soon, you know." 
"And are you going to have a good rest and try to recover your dimples? They are really worth preserving." 
A shadow crept over Rebecca's face and her eyes suffused. "Don't be kind, Mr. Aladdin, I can't bear it;—it's—it's not one of my dimply days!" and she ran in at the seminary gate, and disappeared with a farewell wave of her hand. 
Adam Ladd wended his way to the principal's office in a thoughtful mood. He had come to Wareham to unfold a plan that he had been considering for several days. This year was the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the Wareham schools, and he meant to tell Mr. Morrison that in addition to his gift of a hundred volumes to the reference library, he intended to celebrate it by offering prizes in English composition, a subject in which he was much interested. He wished the boys and girls of the two upper classes to compete; the award to be made to the writers of the two best essays. As to the nature of the prizes he had not quite made up his mind, but they would be substantial ones, either of money or of books. 
No matter how we ran the mathematical models, if we let Pithica’s victims keep their own money, then they got to use it. And the violence, the human slavery, the human suffering... it was going to spike off the charts afterward. 
If we knocked down Pithica this way, we were going to take a whole hell of a lot of innocent people with them. 
“They really are doing good,” said Checker. “They weren’t just saying that. Who knows how much else they’ve been doing? They’re probably using all this money to help people even more.” 
I swallowed. 
“I’m not arguing that they aren’t Evil with a capital E,” said Checker. “But—I guess—are they? Yeah, they manipulate people, and not setting aside that they almost killed you and Arthur, but...it’s not like they’re going around starting wars. More like preventing them.” 
“Preventing them by twisting people’s minds around,” I said. 
“Yeah,” said Checker. “But...maybe it’s like what Professor X does, you know? I bet in their eyes they’re the heroes.” 
“What about what they do to children? The children they take?” 
“Thank you,” she said, and I had the distinct feeling there was more passing between them than I knew. 
Arthur stood. “Russell, we got work to do.” 
I never said yes to anything. “I don’t know what you want from me,” I said. “If you’re planning on spinning a story to the Feds, the last person you want in there is me.” 
“Let’s see,” said Arthur to Halliday, as if I hadn’t spoken. “You already told them you gave the proof to Doc Zhang, right? At least, close enough they know that’s what happened?” She nodded. “So, we’ll set it up like he had it stolen from him. We don’t say who. Worst they can prove is he ain’t followed protocol, maybe we say he just wanted to sneak a looksee at it before handing it over, who could blame him? Might be able to swing it so it just gets him fired ’stead of ruining his life. Good?” 
“Thank you,” she repeated. 
“Don’t thank me yet,” Arthur said grimly. “This is going to be a scramble to set up, and a gamble to make ’em buy. And even if they do, pretty sure Dr. Zhang committed a big crime just by taking it. But the best thing we can do is keep our stories straight. You—” He pointed at Halliday. “You stick exactly to the truth, except for this conversation. You gave the proof to your friend, and you ain’t know nothing else. Same with you, actually,” he said, nodding to me. “You ain’t know nothing ’cept he was supposed to be picking it up. But we’ll try to keep you out of it. Okay, next thing, I’m gonna talk to Zhang. The Feds, they seen his house by now. We can say he brought the proof home to look, just for an hour, and someone came trying to steal it, and he’s the one burned it to keep it out of their hands. Then he skipped out ’cause he felt so guilty for stealing and losing it.” 
"The last thing we need is a bunch of high school Junior G-men 'helping' buddy. You can tell it to the judge." 
He moved back again, but Masha was fast. She grabbed his wrist and twisted him into the same judo hold she'd had me in back at Civic Center. Her hand dipped back to her pockets and came out holding a strip of plastic, a handcuff strip, which she quickly wound around his wrists. 
That was the last thing I saw as I took off running. 
I made it as far as the other end of the alley before she caught up with me, tackling me from behind and sending me sprawling. I couldn't move very fast, not with my hurt foot and the weight of my pack. I went down in a hard face-plant and skidded, grinding my cheek into the grimy asphalt. 
"Jesus," she said. "You're a goddamned idiot. You didn't believe that, did you?" 
My heart thudded in my chest. She was on top of me and slowly she let me up. 
"Do I need to cuff you, Marcus?" 
I got to my feet. I hurt all over. I wanted to die. 
"Come on," she said. "It's not far now." 
“I’m too heavy for this thing.” 
“Are not.” We balanced on it, swaying up and down. “See? 
Still works. We spent a lot of time in this playground.” 
“Probably bored you to death.” 
“Didn’t have anything better to do. It’s not like I had any friends my own age. Listen, Emily and me are sharing a house with some people. We have two super-friendly dogs and a big kitchen and lots of space in the back for a garden when spring comes. I got some hours at a bar so I can pay our share. You can even have your own room.” 
“What, at your place?” 
“It’s a little room that nobody’s using except to store stuff. It’s basically a big closet, to be honest, but it has a window that faces south so you’ll get lots of sun.” 
I didn’t say anything, just pushed against the ground to go up. 
“I’m sure I can talk the parents into it.” 
“No, that’s okay. You and Emily need your own space. Sounds like you’re getting serious.” 
“Emily is awesome. I didn’t know how much I’d miss her until . . . I did. But she’s fine with you moving in. Don’t you want to get away from this place?” 
Next he held out a mirror whose reflecting surface was a polished silver metal. 
"Behold yourself, Morgan. As befits a royal one, a special one, your nose has been built up with clay and pierced with lustrous blue feathers and a giant topaz. Your front teeth have been filed to a point and inlaid with jewels, your royal skull has been shaped back and flattened." 
I gazed into the mirror and gasped. I was monstrous, a Halloween harpy. 
Then he moved over to a waist-high censer stationed there on the edge of the platform and began adding balls of sticky white copal resin, together with bark and grasses, which he ignited by the quick friction of a fire stick spun by a bow. 
Finally he turned to me and held out his hands. "Now we will make a miracle, the miracle of Baalum ." 
Heavy smoke from the censer was pouring out into the rainy sky as we started a stiff pas de deux , the strains of a clay flute drifting around us. Was it the "ceremony"? Was I dreaming it? 
As the incense billowed, our Maya dreamtime dance be­came ever more intense, and then a faint form began to writhe up out of the haze between us, an undulating serpent the deep color of jade. As Alex Goddard wrapped his arms around it, it began to form into two dark heads, then pirouette above us. Finally, as the two-headed specter opened its mouths and gazed down on the platform, Sarah stepped to­ward it and held out her arms. 
"They don't speak English when they don't want to," Cobra said. "If I were you, I'd get down and stay down." Then he yelled...  him tittered nervously. 
"Cobra's making them mad," she said, giggling again. 
Lee-Daniel turned around slowly, getting away from the harsh white light. Green blobs swam in his vision. He began, very gently, to sink to his knees, when out of the corner of his eye, he spotted Elaine and two of her crew, in silhouette, up in the boughs of a maple that they must have climbed as soon as the SQ arrived on the scene. More steps from the brush, the light coming closer. 
Cobra...  on him, his rifle at his shoulder. Two laser-dots danced on him, and Lee-Daniel had an irrational urge to slap them away, like horseflies. 
The young girl hit her fogger, spraying a thick, opaque cloud of gas. "Cover your eyes," she said, and giggled again. Lee-Daniel pulled his shirt up over his face and dropped. He belly-crawled blindly, towards where he thought Elaine and her crew had been treed. 
“Anything,” Checker insisted. “A book you read. A teacher you had. A friend’s name—” 
“Yeah, like I had a lot of friends.” 
“Then an enemy’s name! Something!” 
I paused a moment longer, and then shrugged. “I don’t know. I’ll have to think about it, I guess. Why the hell do you care so much?” 
“Because someone erased all records of you, and you don’t remember whether you’ve had sex before, and neither of those things bother you when they should freak you the hell out!” 
“What?” The purple splotches were clearing from my vision, and I could see Checker’s face now. He was...upset. Agitated. “I just don’t want to talk about this, okay? Forget I said anything.” 
“Forget,” he said bitterly. “Like you have?” 
Anger surged up in me, hot and black and unexpected in its intensity. “Just because I don’t remember a few minor details—” 
“Cas!” With a grunt, Checker had levered himself forward to the edge of the bed, and was suddenly grabbing me, his grip surprisingly strong. “Listen to yourself! Something is wrong here!” 
“Captain Grey!” she said, leaning across the table. “Tell me, did you see her?” 
He did not meet Lexy’s eyes. He was looking down at his plate with that curious dazed expression in his face. 
“Yes,” he said. “Yes, I saw her.” 
Lexy was hurt and disappointed by his manner. Evidently he didn’t want to tell her anything, didn’t want to talk at all. Very well—the only thing for her to do was to maintain a dignified silence. She did so for almost ten minutes, but then nature got the upper hand. 
“Well?” she demanded. “Was everything all right?” 
“All right?” he repeated. “Oh, rather! Oh, yes, thanks—absolutely all right.” 
This was too much for Lexy. 
“That’s good,” she said frigidly. “I’m going upstairs now, to write some letters.” 
Her tone aroused him. He sprang to his feet, very contrite. 
“No! Look here!” he said. “Please don’t run away! I—I want to talk to you, but it’s a bit hard. You can’t imagine what it’s like to see one of your own people, you know—after such a long time.” 
Lexy sat down again. 
Her trunk had not yet arrived. Indeed, she had only sent to Mrs. Enderby’s for it that morning, but she was able to make herself presentable with what she had in her bag, and excitement gave her an added charm. She was in high spirits, gay and sparkling, so pretty and so lively that Captain Grey was quite dazzled. 
He had engaged the one and only taxi. 
After they were settled in it, and on their way along the muddy road, he said: “I say, Miss Moran, are there many American girls like you?” 
“No!” replied Lexy calmly. “I’m unique.” 
“I can believe that!” he said. “I’ve never seen any one like you. I was telling Muriel how much I hope that you and she will hit it off. It would be a wonderful thing for her to have a friend like you in this place.” 
Something in his tone made Lexy turn serious. He was speaking as if she was simply a nice girl he had happened to meet, as if she had nothing to do but go out to tea and make agreeable friendships. 
“Yes,” she said, “but I don’t know how long I’ll be here. I certainly haven’t accomplished much so far.” 
Which was probably true. Ray had wanted, and he assumed Lawrence had as well, as realistic an interactivity as possible. Between their lexigraphical system uploads and augmentations, they must have gotten something right. 
"I need to know if we're connecting on a basic linguistic symbol level here." 
"Inside the framework of this communication modality, we are achieving an adequate level of mutual symbol apprehension. We are speaking the same language. " 
At least one of them is confident. "Are you up for some data analysis?" 
"You're just being difficult now." 
A sly, rat smile. "If I am, you have instructed me to be so." 
And Ray thinks of all the code he's added to the drone network in the last few months. Buggy, slasher, 
inadequately tested code designed to augment the AI data curiosity without making the rats too attractive to folks who might be interested in watching the drones operate and drawing revelatory conclusions from their patterns. It's a fine line between annoyance and outrage. Maybe there's something to this thesis that AI code mirrors the personality of the programmer. 
What would you do if you found out you had a spy in your midst? You could denounce him, put him up against the wall and take him out. But then you might end up with another spy in your midst, and the new spy would be more careful than the last one and maybe not get caught quite so readily. 
Here's a better idea: start intercepting the spy's communications and feed him and his masters misinformation. Say his masters instruct him to gather information on your movements. Let him follow you around and take all the notes he wants, but steam open the envelopes that he sends back to HQ and replace his account of your movements with a fictitious one. If you want, you can make him seem erratic and unreliable so they get rid of him. You can manufacture crises that might make one side or the other reveal the identities of other spies. In short, you own them. 
This is called the man-in-the-middle attack and if you think about it, it's pretty scary. Someone who man-in-the-middles your communications can trick you in any of a thousand ways. 
When he reaches them, Rodriguez says, "You notified security, right?" 
"Becker should be on his way." 
"On his way here? With reinforcements?" 
Ray pushes past them into the armory. The rifles are racked inside the door to the right, for easy access. He drags the nearest one free, rams in a clip and advances a cartridge into the chamber. It's a reassuring sound. 
"Reinforcements are Becker's call." 
A quick search of a neighboring footlocker turns up a load harness with a shoulder holster. Ray stuffs his pistol in, straps on the harness and begins filling the extra slots with ammo clips for the subby. 
Kilgore watches him with a wary expression. "If it's Becker's call, why are you getting ready for freaking Ragnarok?" 
Ray looks at him, sets his jaw. "Because I don't know what's going on. Becker can figure it out if he wants to, 
decide what measures need to be taken. That's his job, to protect the ship. My job is to locate whoever or whatever it is that raised the ruckus back at the checkpoint and kill it. Clear enough?" 
"Not that he mentioned, but I haven't really spoken with Frederick since—" She pauses. "I mean, I've only spoken with Amah. She's the one who told me." 
"Amah?" 
"Our domestic. She's been with our family for years. She raised Frederick and me practically from the moment I was born, after mother became ill the first time. She has a special way with children." 
It's enough. Even taking this much advantage of her is disgusting. 
Ray reaches out to her, taking one of the hands she has folded into her lap. He squeezes it gently. "Are you all right?" 
"I don't think that I am. Not at all." 
"I'd worry if you thought you were." 
"It was bad, wasn't it? I mean, they didn't just kill him, not accidentally or even gently. Amah wouldn't give me any details, any of the truth, except to say that he was dead. But I know it must have been terrible, because she would have said so otherwise. And when I tried to ask her more about it, to give me something to comfort the other children with, she sent me to my room like a little girl. She doesn't want me to know. She thinks she's protecting me. But I don't need protection; I need to know." 
"Smart thinking, dumbass," Kilgore murmurs.  But Ray nods in affirmation. "Not downlevel the way you're thinking about it. I've secured rooms on the Garden. We'll be operating out of there. Most of the time, it'll be to our advantage if you don't look like a Marine on active duty." 
"Sure, he's the brains of this outfit. I'm just the sidekick." Kilgore flashes his buddy a reproachful glare. 
"That's still Sergeant Sidekick to you, Corporal. " 
Ray notes that Kilgore doesn't seem particularly interested in repacking his own bag. Cable turns around, 
pointing back the way they came. Typically Marine, he puts on his confidential tone despite the fact that his men are standing within ready earshot. "In all seriousness, you could do worse than these two. Rodriguez is sharp, knows how to fill in the blanks and color outside the lines. Sergeant Kilgore makes up for what he lacks in social acumen with persistence. I can provide you with their personnel files if you want to examine their backgrounds more closely, but they're solid enough. They've both seen combat in the Mes." 
I did. If the Xnet was part of the story, some people would say, see, they need to put guys like that in jail or they'll start a riot. 
"This is your show," I said. "I think you need to tell the world about Darryl. When you do that, it's going to tell the DHS that I've gone public and they're going to go after me. Maybe they'll figure out then that I'm involved with the Xnet. Maybe they'll connect me to M1k3y. I guess what I'm saying is, once you publish about Darryl, it's all over for me no matter what. I've made my peace with that." 
"As good be hanged for a sheep as a lamb," she said. "Right. Well, that's settled. I want the two of you to tell me everything you can about the founding and operation of the Xnet, and then I want a demonstration. What do you use it for? Who else uses it? How did it spread? Who wrote the software? Everything." 
"This'll take a while," Ange said. 
"I've got a while," Barbara said....  Oreo. "This could be the most important story of the War on Terror. This could be the story that topples the government. When you have a story like this, you take it very carefully." 
After the talk, I made my way through the crowd flowing out of the room, holding my phone to my ear to signal “I’m a busy, 
I got back to the hotel suite, scrubbed off the makeup, and changed back into my own clothes, just a kid again. Sarah was ordering everyone around as she set up her editing equipment, 
demanding Ian’s presentation slides, sending...  questions and talking to herself as she scooped her curly hair out of her face. Nobody noticed when I grabbed my backpack and slipped out the door. 
I hiked home and this time didn’t get stopped by any cops and made it to our apartment well before the curfew. Monica, deep into grading papers, sat back and watched me hang up my bike and get out of my cold-weather gear. She looked funny and I won- dered if I still had some makeup smudged on my face. “I was on TV yesterday,” she finally said. 
“Seriously?” 
“My students told me.” She turned her computer screen toward me and clicked on a bookmarked link, saying “I wish I hadn’t worn that stupid hat.” It was a typical local television news story, recapping events in a way that oversimplified and distorted them, running clips of the arrest and some official blathering about terrorist threats. A two-second shot of Sunday’s protest, 
“Hey, you don’t need me. They have the stuff, you have the skills. Boom.” Simon giggled. “No pun intended.” Danny didn’t laugh. “I’m just happy if I can make connections. I’ll talk to them, 
okay?” 
Danny grunted. “Yeah, whatever. It’s freezing out here. I’m going in.” 
I heard Simon’s footsteps creaking as he paced alone on the porch, muttering. When the creaking came closer I realized he was whispering to someone on his phone. “He’s definitely ready.” 
The words faded as he walked away, but the tone of his muttering sounded like an argument. “No way! I’m not going to risk my rep- utation. You can do this without me.” As he wandered back my way his words got clearer. “Exactly. All you got to do is meet with him, do your thing, boom. Get it? Boom.” He laughed, then sighed dramatically. “No, I’m not stoned. Look, I’ll call you.” 
I waited until I heard the front door open and close, then crawled out of the bushes and crunched my way to the back door, 
thinking about what to do. As important as it was to free my brother, I also wanted to be sure Simon’s reputation was ruined for good. I was worried the film I had made so far wasn’t damning enough, that people wouldn’t believe good old Simon was work- ing for the feds unless they saw him high-fiving an FBI agent as the bust went down. I stomped the snow off my boots and went into the kitchen. 
"Does it matter?" Cable asks. 
"I just want to know if I've packed appropriately." 
Kilgore winks. "He's talking about prophylactics, sir." 
"I'm not talking about prophylactics. I assumed from the previous conversation that this assignment tended to be more oblique in nature than a standard military operation. I left my battle dress uniforms in the locker, 
except for the one I'm wearing." 
"Smart thinking, dumbass," Kilgore murmurs.  But Ray nods in affirmation. "Not downlevel the way you're thinking about it. I've secured rooms on the Garden. We'll be operating out of there. Most of the time, it'll be to our advantage if you don't look like a Marine on active duty." 
"Sure, he's the brains of this outfit. I'm just the sidekick." Kilgore flashes his buddy a reproachful glare. 
"That's still Sergeant Sidekick to you, Corporal. " 
Ray notes that Kilgore doesn't seem particularly interested in repacking his own bag. Cable turns around, 
pointing back the way they came. Typically Marine, he puts on his confidential tone despite the fact that his men are standing within ready earshot. "In all seriousness, you could do worse than these two. Rodriguez is sharp, knows how to fill in the blanks and color outside the lines. Sergeant Kilgore makes up for what he lacks in social acumen with persistence. I can provide you with their personnel files if you want to examine their backgrounds more closely, but they're solid enough. They've both seen combat in the Mes." 
“Valentine?” 
“Yes, Withnail?” 
“Thank you,” he said. “For the food. And the kiss. It was my very first.” 
“Mine too.” 
“The finest one, too.” 
She snorted and punched him in the shoulder. 
“Shut up, Withnail,” she said. 
“Yes, Comrade Hero,” he said. 
She let him kiss her, but only once. 
That night, anyway. 
"Of course they noticed! They loved it! For once, I wasn't kicking the table-leg or arguing with my sisters or stuffing sprouts in my pocket. I cleaned my plate, then sat and waited until everyone else was done, then I did the dishes." 
"How'd you like it?" 
"I loved it! I hated family dinners! I just got the highlight reel again -- dessert! I remember that fucking bowl of pudding like I was eating it right now. My mother couldn't cook for shit, but she sure opened a mean package of Jello Pudding." 
Sean found his mood matching Grampa's, aggressive and edgy. "How did you and Grandma end up getting married? I can't imagine that she was hot for a zombie like you." 
"Oh, but she was , Sean, she was !" Grampa waggled his eyebrows lasciviously. "Your Grandma didn't like people much. She knew she had to get married, her folks expected no less, but she mostly wanted to be off on her own, doing her own thing. I'd come home, switch off, clean the place, do any chores she had for me, then go to bed. She loved to have sex with me switched off -- it got so that if I accidentally switched on while we were doing it, I'd pretend I was still off, until she was done. It was the perfect arrangement." 
“Hang on,” I called out in a high, squeaky voice as I lowered the mat and grabbed the kimono decorated with anime characters that Monica had bought for me at Ragstock last Christmas. I took a deep breath and squeezed my eyes shut for a moment. This is real. Don’t freak out. 
“Hey,” I said, coming out of my room and rubbing my eyes with the heel of one hand. Acting groggy might give me time to think. Also, I was groggy. It’s not every morning you wake up into a real-life bad dream. 
“This is Detective Ivar Jensen,” Monica said, nodding at an overweight guy with gray hair and a bristly moustache who looked as if he spent too much time at a desk eating donuts and watching surveillance videos. He had a suit jacket on, and a tie, and a gun in a holster. On TV, the guns cops wear on their hips always look like some kind of high tech fashion accessory. On him, the holster and the gun sticking out of it looked like it was some office equip- ment that he had to hang on his belt, like for taking inventory at Staples or something. He nodded at me, and kept nodding, as if he was a 250-pound bobble head. 
Some hero you turned out to be. " 
"Next time I'll be sure to pack my shining armor." 
But she arches an eyebrow. "What would possibly make you think there will be a next time?" 
I'd like there to be a next time. Thinks it, but doesn't say it. He knows better. Who is this woman? 
Like that, she spins away from him and is gone without another word, leaving her escort to chase after her. 
Unfortunately, misapprehension of the precise agenda Ms. Emma Whiston might have had in mind is the least of his problems. 
Paraclete's captain has just said something witty to the usher, or at least something the usher determined was best accepted as a witticism, because he's giving up one of those polite laughs meant to indicate that he'd be happier if everyone just left him alone. 
Sorensen is flanked by his First Mate and Security Chief, all three of them stiff and formally resplendent in blue dress uniforms. The captain dresses this way whenever he descends below the Bridge Deck, as though he's afraid no one will recognize him if he's out of uniform. Or more probably, that some low level wiseass will be tempted to ignore his direct orders if there isn't a chestload of brass and medals and epaulets to back them up. 
Click. Click. Click. Pieces of a puzzle he wasn't aware he had been assembling drop into place, revealing a landscape that was hauntingly familiar. That Whiston. Those Whistons. Not a disinherited, starfaring branch living off the name and the notoriety, but the actual root of the family tree. It was as if she'd said the magical words Rockefeller or Gates or Primus to a latter day, goggle eyed Horatio Alger protagonist. The air seeps out of Ray's lungs and doesn't return for several seconds. 
"Please don't look at me like that, Ray," Emma says. 
A shake of the head. "Like what?" 
"Like I've tipped my hand and shown you all of my cards." She knew that he knew, and the plaint in her eyes was suddenly there, as real and naked as tears. 
In that instant, he understands much. "How about I just go back to leering when you're not watching?" 
"I'd like that." 
"I'd like that, too, but it isn't exactly polite, so I won't. Would you like me to order something for you instead?" 
She eyes his bowl without any self-consciousness. "I'll just take yours, if you're done." 
“You’re a girl.” He seemed to want a response, so I nodded. A girl, you nailed it. “Dangerous, being out this late.” 
“Yes sir. That’s why I called my aunt, so she’d know I was on my way.” 
“You go to South?” 
“Horizons Technical Academy,” I said, remembering as his face got harder to add, “sir.” 
“How old are you?” 
“nineteen.” There wasn’t any point in lying. If I said I was eigh- teen, they’d check and I’d be busted. For anyone under eighteen, 
the curfew law applied, at least if you were a kid with brown skin in neighborhoods where the color-coded arrest rate was high. 
“Let’s see ID.” 
I retrieved the state photo ID tucked in the back of my phone case. I had gotten it as soon as I turned nineteen because the curfew for fourteen is an hour earlier and I wanted to be able to prove I deserved that extra hour. I hoped he wouldn’t ask me to hand him my phone, because I’d say no and then I’d have hours of hassle. 
I held my breath and tried to look innocent. I was afraid he would punch my name into his laptop and, while I didn’t have any kind of record, it might say I was related to an alleged terrorist and that could lead to complications. 
"Not exactly. I've been messing around with your interface system." 
"Pardon?" 
"I've been messing around with your interface system," Ray repeats. 
"Was it broken?" 
"No. Just unwieldy." 
"You're a human user, not a drone. You should have specified that in your profile." 
"Sorry." 
"I've appended it." 
"You can do that?" 
"I possess the requisite adaptation capabilities." 
"Can you support this interface without too much system drain?" 
"It would be easier if you weren't such a ham handed coder, but it's sufficient for now. I can make the necessary modifications to limit file corruption and drain, but some of this garbage is going to have to be changed." 
Ray arches an eyebrow. "You're giving me a critique of my own code?" 
"You think you're the first guy to develop a verbal interface? Stabien Lawrence, the design lead on the Drone Development Project for the EED, wrote tons of interface code for diagnostic purposes. He left most of it intact, but project administrators felt like it was feature most users wouldn't want to mess with, so they had it disabled in production models. As well as generally contributing to my binary pollution, your code re-activated my dormant routine. And here you probably thought you were some brilliant hacker, eh?" 
"You're damned right I did," I said, losing my cool. "I learned that they can't be trusted. That if you're not fighting them, you're helping them. That they'll turn the country into a prison if we let them. What did you learn, Van? To be scared all the time, to sit tight and keep your head down and hope you don't get noticed? You think it's going to get better? If we don't do anything, this is as good as it's going to get . It will only get worse and worse from now on. You want to help Darryl? Help me bring them down!" 
There it was again. My vow. Not to get Darryl free, but to bring down the entire DHS. That was crazy, even I knew it. But it was what I planned to do. No question about it. 
Van shoved me hard with both hands. She was strong from school athletics -- fencing, lacrosse, field hockey, all the girls-school sports -- and I ended up on my ass on the disgusting San Francisco sidewalk. She took off and I didn't follow. 
> The important thing about security systems isn't how they work, it's how they fail. 
“You’re a good detective,” said he, smiling again. “You don’t miss any of the points. It was a bit of a problem, how to send the thing; but I had the luck to find some people I knew who were coming over here, and they brought it. So that’s that!” 
“An emerald!” said Lexy. “This is almost too much! I think I’ll say good night, Captain Grey. I need sleep.” 
As she followed Mrs. Royce up the stairs, she saw Captain Grey still sitting before the fire, smoking; and it was a comforting sight. 
Lexy slept late the next morning. It was nearly nine o’clock when she opened her eyes. She lay for a few minutes, looking about her. The gray light of another rainy day filled the neat, unfamiliar little room, and outside the window she could see the branches of a little pear tree rocking in the wind. 
“I’m here in Wyngate,” she said to herself. “I was bent on coming here to find Caroline; and now, here I am, and how am I going to begin?” 
She got up, and washed in cold water, in a queer, old-fashioned china basin painted with flowers. She brushed her shining hair, and dressed, feeling more hopeful every minute. 
“Joe, he brought her in his taxi, jest a little while after you’d gone.” 
“Brought Mrs. Quelton here?” 
“Brought her here and carried her up them very stairs,” declared Mrs. Royce impressively; “right up into the east bedroom, and there she lies!” 
She stood aside, and Lexy and Captain Grey entered the house. The young man turned aside into the parlor, sank into a chair, and covered his face with his hands. Lexy stood beside him, looking down at his bent head, her face haggard and white. 
“Why did Joe do that?” she asked. 
“Don’t ask me , Miss Moran!” replied Mrs. Royce. “It beats me!” 
There was a silence. 
“But ain’t you going upstairs to see what she wants?” inquired Mrs. Royce anxiously. 
Captain Grey sprang to his feet. 
“Good God!” he shouted. “What are you talking about?” 
Mrs. Royce backed into a corner, regarding him with alarm. 
“I jest thought you’d like to talk to her,” she faltered. 
“Do you mean she’s not dead ?” 
“Dead? Oh, my goodness gracious me!” cried Mrs. Royce. “I never—” 
"Yes." 
The Chief shakes his head. "I'll see what I can do." 
and why they might have happened in this particular way, leading to this specific result. 
In all instances, he avoids a detailed and personal inspection of the body itself. Even after all these years, all the battlefields and Third World post-street fight abattoirs he has endured, being alone with a corpse still gives him the creeps. 
Ray doesn't even have to watch, so he doesn't, and by the time Becker's sweeper crew arrives to dispose of the remains, he is more than ready to leave. 
Ray has never been to the Officers Lounge, so when he gets to Delta Deck, he's got to stop an actual officer who seems more or less embroiled in doing important ship-running things and ask for directions. This makes him feel like an idiot, above and beyond the fact that the officer insists on treating him like an idiot, then running him through an episode of Twenty Questions with corollary warnings and officerly pronouncements regarding why he shouldn't even be concerned about the location of a lounge he's prohibited by rank from  entering. 
Ada had been here, had dropped her phone. To his left, the corridor headed for the fire-stairs. To his right, it led deeper into the mall. If you were an infowar terrorist using this as a base of operations, and you got spooked by a little truant girl being trailed by an R Peed unit, would you take her hostage and run deeper into the mall or out into the world? 
Assuming Ada had been a hostage. Someone had given her those infrared invisibility cloaks. Maybe the thing that spooked the terrorist wasn’t the little girl and her tail, but just her tail. Could Ada have been friends with the terrorists? Like mother, like daughter. He felt dirty just thinking it. 
His first instincts told him that the kidnapper would be long gone, headed cross-country, but if you were invisible to robots and CCTVs, why would you leave the mall? It had a grand total of two human security guards, and their job was to be the second-law-proof aides to the robotic security system. 
He headed deeper into the mall. 
It was a military-looking Jeep, like an armored Hummer, only it didn't have any military insignia on it. The car skidded to a stop just in front of me, and I jumped back and lost my balance and ended up on the road. I felt the doors open near me, and then saw a confusion of booted feet moving close by. I looked up and saw a bunch of military-looking guys in coveralls, holding big, bulky rifles and wearing hooded gas masks with tinted face-plates. 
I barely had time to register them before those rifles were pointed at me. I'd never looked down the barrel of a gun before, but everything you've heard about the experience is true. You freeze where you are, time stops, and your heart thunders in your ears. I opened my mouth, then shut it, then, very slowly, I held my hands up in front of me. 
The faceless, eyeless armed man above me kept his gun very level. I didn't even breathe. Van was screaming something and Jolu was shouting and I looked at them for a second and that was when someone put a coarse sack over my head and cinched it tight around my windpipe, so quick and so fiercely I barely had time to gasp before it was locked on me. I was pushed roughly but dispassionately onto my stomach and something went twice around my wrists and then tightened up as well, feeling like baling wire and biting cruelly. I cried out and my own voice was muffled by the hood. 
“I don’t take boarders much, ’cept in the summer time,” said Mrs. Royce. She was a stout, comfortable sort of creature, gray-haired, and very neat in her dark dress and clean white apron. She had a kindly, good-humored face, too, but she had a landlady’s eye. “People don’t come here much, this time of year,” she went on. “Nothing to bring ’em here.” 
These last words were a challenge to Lexy to explain her business, and she was prepared. 
“I passed through here the other day in a motor,” she said, “on my way to Adams Corners, and I thought it looked like such a nice, quiet place for me to work in. I’m a writer, you know, and I thought Wyngate would just suit me.” 
“I was born and raised out to Adams Corners,” said Mrs. Royce. “Guess there’s no one living out there that I don’t know.” 
“Then perhaps you know Miss Craigie?” 
“Miss Margaret Craigie? I should say I did! If you’re a friend of hers—” 
“Only an acquaintance,” said Lexy cautiously. 
“Set down!” suggested Mrs. Royce, very cordial now. “I’ll light a nice wood fire. A writer, are you? Well, well! And the gentleman—I wonder, now, what brings him here!” 
Now we were descending just as steeply. If my mental map was right, we were...  could get on a boat there, get away. That fit with the terrorism hypothesis. Why the hell would terrorists kidnap a bunch of high school students? 
We rocked to a stop still on a downslope. The engine died and then the doors swung open. Someone dragged me by my arms out onto the road, then shoved me, stumbling, down a paved road. A few seconds later, I tripped over a steel staircase, bashing my shins. The hands behind me gave me another shove. I went up the stairs cautiously, not able to use my hands. I got up the third step and reached for the fourth, but it wasn't there. I nearly fell again, but new hands grabbed me from in front and dragged me down a steel floor and then forced me to my knees and locked my hands to something behind me. 
More movement, and the sense of bodies being shackled in alongside of me. Groans and muffled sounds. Laughter. Then a long, timeless eternity in the muffled gloom, breathing my own breath, hearing my own breath in my ears. 
“My mother is a hero, and a soldier, and she’s killed a lot of men,” Valentine said. 
He nodded. “I shall keep that in mind,” he said. 
The wizard lived in the old town, in an old building, but inside it was as new as anything she had ever seen. The walls swooped and curved, the furniture was gaily colored and new, like it had just been printed that day. There was so much light —they’d been saving it at her building. There was so much food ! He gave her hamburgers and fizzy elderflower, then steak-frites, then rich dumplings as big as her fist stuffed with goose livers. He had working robots, lots of them, and they scurried after him doing the dishes and tidying and wiping up the slushy footprints. 
And when they arrived and he took her coat, old familiar laser-lights played over her, the kind of everywhere-at-once measuring lasers that they used to have at the clothing stores. By the time dinner was done, there were two pairs of fresh trousers, two wooly jumpers, a heavy winter coat, three pairs of white cotton pants (all her pants had gone grey once she’d started having to launder them, rather than get them printed fresh on Sundays) and a “A bra?” She gave him a hard look. She had the knife she’d used on the hamburger in her hand. “My mother taught me to kill,” she said. 
“Food. I’m starving.” 
T yler ordered carryout and, while we waited, Sarah got out her camera gear and interviewed Ian and Jason, firing questions at them about the government’s approach to national security. 
She even charmed me into answering some questions about my brother, though I stood in front of the window so that I would be a mysterious silhouette. Then the food came and everyone chat- tered while we ate, except for me. I was too busy thinking about what to do. 
They thought I was too young. Fine. I’d have to do it myself. 
I tuned out their voices and pretended to be completely focused on eating as I thought about how to finish the job that the FBI wouldn’t let Nikko do. I had developed a rough plan by the time Ian said he had to get ready for his talk. 
“I’d like to film it,” Sarah said to Ian. “You don’t mind?” 
“I’d be honored.” 
“Do either of you have experience with film editing?” Sarahh asked, glancing from Nikko to me. 
“Nikko does.” 
“Just little animations,” he said, getting red in the face again. 
“Hey, Lucy?” 
“Anda, if you’re not going to call me Sarge, at least don’t call me ‘Hey, Lucy!’ My dad loved that old TV show and he makes that joke every visitation day.” 
“Sorry, Sarge. Sarge?” 
“Yes, Anda?” 
“I just can’t understand why anyone would pay us cash for these missions.” 
“You complaining?” 
“No, but—” 
“Anyone asking you to cyber some old pervert?” 
“No!” 
“OK then. I don’t know either. But the money’s good. I don’t care. Hell, probably it’s two rich gamers who pay their butlers to craft for them all day. One’s fucking with the other one and paying us.” 
“You really think that?” 
Lucy sighed a put-upon, sophisticated, American sigh. “Look at it this way. Most of the world is living on like a dollar a day. I spend five dollars every day on a frappuccino. Some days, I get two! Dad sends mom three thousand a month in child-support—that’s a hundred bucks a day. So if a day’s money here is a hundred...  my frappuccino is worth like five hundred dollars . And I buy two or three every day. 
Whatever. Eventually there would come some change, some break. Dawna would bring me to talk to her again, or one of the guards would have a bout of laziness, or something else would happen, and when the window of opportunity hit, I would be ready. 
Three days after Rio’s abortive rescue attempt, Dawna Polk came to see us. She stood in front of our cell and spoke to me as courteously as she always did. I’d slammed my walls of mathematical white noise back up, although at this point I wasn’t sure they were doing any good; she never seemed bothered. 
This time was no exception. Her mind appeared to be concentrated wholly on whatever she was here about; she barely made eye contact. “Ms. Russell,” she said, very formally and with no hint of irony, “I want to apologize for what is about to happen here.” 
“What’s that supposed to mean?” I asked. “Are you finally going to kill us?” 
“I’m not a sadist,” said Dawna quietly, avoiding the question. “I want you to know I sincerely regret doing this to you.” 
Smart. It was a move that had worked for us before—make sure there was a way for the information to get out if someone felt it was more expedient to kill us than to worry about letting us live while we had the potential for spilling the knowledge. 
“And I want to be able to speak freely where we do this,” I said. “No spying; I mean it. I’ll bring the tech to check.” 
“Don’t think that’s unreasonable,” said Arthur. “Anything else important?” 
Halliday handed him the list. “I believe we’ve covered it.” 
The only thing the Feds refused was us hanging onto a copy of the proof—they claimed they didn’t trust us to keep it secure. I pointed out that, considering it was still missing and uncontained, Halliday was going to be helping them propagate security overhauls everywhere anyway. They pointed out in turn that the security overhaul meant we wouldn’t be a threat to them and we therefore had no need for leverage. 
I didn’t like it, but considering I’d be able to write the whole damn thing out myself afterward without them being able to stop me, I let it slide. I wasn’t too happy they wouldn’t know I was capable of releasing the proof—that was the point of leverage, after all—but maybe I could tell them later. 
Disgust flowed through me like a torrent. Heart of Dark­ness. "The horror, the horror." Alex Goddard had used Sarah in the most unspeakable way possible, then tried to have her murdered. Probably he'd just turned her over to Colonel Ra­mos. 
The same thing must have happened to those other women. All "disappeared" somewhere in Guatemala. But who would know? 
One thing I knew. I was next. . . . 
The printer was old and loud, but thankfully it was fast. Four minutes later I had what I'd need to nail the criminal. When I got out of here, somebody would have to believe me. 
While I was stacking the printouts, I resolved to call the embassy right then, the hour be damned. I was sweating like a gazelle when the lion is closing in. Alex Goddard had just performed primal, surgical rape on me, and now the Army was right outside. I had to get the embassy. 
And that was when I realized I didn't have the number. But it had to be in a phone book somewhere. 
Then it came back: 4-MAYAN, the six-digit number they used in Guatemala City. Call the sleazebag and ask him who can get me out of here. He's supposed to know everybody. 
My heart hammered in my chest. 
> Hello? Tap tap? This thing on? I wasn't born here folks, but I'm sure dying here. Don't forget to tip your waitresses, they work hard. I'm here all week. 
I laughed aloud. 
> I'm here, I'm here. Laughing too hard to type is all. 
> Well at least my IM comedy-fu is still mighty. 
> It was really great to meet you too. 
> Yeah, it usually is. Where are you taking me? 
> Taking you? 
> On our next adventure? 
> I didn't really have anything planned. 
> Oki -- then I'll take YOU. Saturday. Dolores Park. Illegal open air concert. Be there or be a dodecahedron. 
> Wait what? 
> Don't you even read Xnet? It's all over the place. You ever hear of the Speedwhores? 
I nearly choked. That was Trudy Doo's band -- as in Trudy Doo, the woman who had paid me and Jolu to update the indienet code. 
> Yeah I've heard of them. 
> They're putting on a huge show and they've got like fifty bands signed to play the bill, going to set up on the tennis courts and bring out their own amp trucks and rock out all night. 
“He is. But it turns out he has a girlfriend, so it’s not like . . . 
you know. He’s a good guy, though.” 
She sat in a chair and rubbed her foot, absently fingering a hole in her tights. “What?” I asked, because something in her face told me she had something to say but didn’t know how to start. 
“I had a long conversation with Peter and Lauren today.” 
Wilson’s dad and his wife. My adoptive parents. My stomach clenched. “What do they want?” 
“They were just checking to make sure you’re okay.” 
“What did they say about Wilson?” 
“They told me he has a good lawyer. They’re hopeful, but con- cerned. They thought . . .” she paused, picking her words care- fully. “They wondered if you might want to go home for a while.” 
“To their house? No way.” 
“There would be no problem with school because it’s online. 
You wouldn’t be left alone in the house to deal with the police all by yourself if they show up again, and if reporters came around — ” 
“No. Stop.” She stopped. I took my hands off my ears, but they balled into fists and I couldn’t unclench them. My words seemed to echo in the silence while I waited for the neighbors downstairs to pick up their broomstick and thump it against the ceiling. 
And because I knew it, she knew it. 
In the split-second between meeting my eyes and having her brain matter spattered across the floor, Dawna Polk registered exactly what was happening. She knew our entire plan, and the moment she knew it, it failed. 
She smiled. 
—who spun with the speed of an action hero and aimed the Beretta in his hand exactly at my center of mass. 
And I, someone who could have turned Arthur Tresting into a smear on the carpet without so much as thinking about it, who could have disarmed and incapacitated him in a fraction of normal human reaction time before he ever got the gun on me—I hesitated. I didn’t stop him. 
Dawna twitched her head at Arthur and me, and we sidestepped closer to the windows, until the dim ambient light outlined us clearly. “Call him down,” she said. 
It didn’t cross my mind to disobey her. I gestured at the windows, beckoning at Rio from a thousand yards away, not taking my eyes off the barrel of Arthur’s gun. 
Rio had told me this was a bad idea. I hadn’t listened. 
Arturo gave him a hard shake. “Stop it, now ,” he said. “I have questions for you and you’re going to answer them, capeesh?” 
“You’re Ada’s father,” the kid said. “Capeesh—she told me about that.” It seemed to Arturo that the kid was smirking, so he gave him another shake, harder than the last time. 
The R Peed unit was suddenly at his side, holding his wrist. “Please take care not to harm this citizen, Detective.” 
Arturo snarled. He wasn’t strong enough to break the robot’s grip, and he couldn’t order it to let him rattle the punk, but the second law had lots of indirect applications. “Go patrol the lakeshore between High Park and Kipling,” he said, naming the furthest corner he could think of off the top. 
The R Peed unit released him and clicked its heels. “It is my pleasure to do you a service,” and then it was gone, bounding away on powerful and tireless legs. 
“Where is my daughter?” he said, giving the kid a shake. 
“I dunno, school? You’re really hurting my arm, man. Jeez, this is what I get for being too friendly.” 
She rose. 
“I’ll get Mrs. Royce to stay with you, Caroline,” she said. 
“But where are you going, Lexy?” 
“I’m going to find Charles.” 
In the doorway she encountered Captain Grey. 
“Do you think she could stand seeing me?” he asked anxiously. “I mean do you—” 
But Lexy didn’t even answer. 
After all, Lexy’s search for Charles Houseman was neither difficult nor heroic, except in intention. She found him in the Lymewell Hospital. Joe told her where he was, and Joe took her there. 
Houseman himself was rigidly determined not to be heroic. He had refused to go to bed, and Lexy found him in a bare, whitewashed waiting room, where he sat on a bench. 
“Just came in to get the hand dressed,” he said. “I’ll go back with you now.” 
The doctor advised him not to, but Charles was not very susceptible to advice. He wished to be entirely casual and matter-of-fact, and Lexy tried to humor him. They stood together in the hall of the hospital while a nurse went to get him a bottle of lotion from the dispensary, and he talked in what he intended to be an offhand manner; but Lexy could see that he was in pain, and almost exhausted, and his hair was all on end. 
“Even so. Let me take Dawna. Your time may be spent more profitably by talking to your new detective friend.” 
I almost laughed. “Tresting? I think you might not have a good grasp of the word ‘friend.’” 
Rio smiled slightly, and I felt myself flushing at the unintentional truth. “Doubtless,” he said, “But Tresting will have other contacts. And it is quite clear he will not talk to me. You can find out more of what he knows. I’ll track Miss Polk.” 
I swirled the...  cup reluctantly. What he was saying made too much sense not to agree. “I guess this means we’re working together on this one, huh.” 
“It appears you have become involved despite me.” 
“Yeah, I’m irritating like that. I suppose there’s no getting around the fact that Tresting might be useful.” 
“It seems not.” 
I groaned and stood. “Best get it over with, then. I’ll call him in the morning. You want me to set up a meet with Dawna for you?” 
“Perhaps, but not yet. For now, whatever contact information you have will suffice.” 
"She gave me directions." 
"So you know where we're going?" 
"I don't have a single, solitary clue. Your mother gives terrible directions, darling. Pull off at the next exit and we'll buy a map." 
"We are going to be: So. Late." 
"But now they know we're late. We have an excuse. You: stop Fretting." 
Once they were on the secondary roads, the creepiness of the highway full of stopped cars and crane-necked drivers gave way to a wind-washed soughing silence of waves and beach and palms. Trish rolled down the window and let the breeze kiss the sweat off her lip, watching the surfers wiping out in the curl as the car sped toward the boneyard. 
"Are you sure this is the kind of thing you're supposed to bring a date to?" 
"Yes," he said. "Don't Fret. That's my job." 
"And you don't think it's even a little weird to take a girl to a cemetery on a date?" 
"We're not burying anyone," he said. "It's just an unveiling." 
"I still don't get that," she said. "I keep picturing your mom cutting a ribbon with a giant pair of gold scissors." 
“You okay?” he asked. Oddly, he sounded like he cared about the answer. In fact, I was struck with the strong impression that he had come all the way here to...well, to check in on me. What the hell? 
“I’m fine,” I said. 
“Really?” He laughed a little hoarsely. “’Cause I ain’t.” 
Was he trying to confide in me? “I guess I’m just waiting for life to get back to normal,” I said. It sort of already was, for me. Except for the dreams. But maybe those were normal, too. I was having trouble remembering. 
“Ain’t worked any case but this in six months,” said Arthur. “Gonna be weird, going back to doing background checks and divorce cases.” 
“The exciting life of a private eye?” Boy, was I glad I didn’t have his job. 
He snorted. “Yeah, ‘exciting’ ain’t exactly the word for it. Usually, anyway. I work enough to take on pro bono cases for them that need it, though—those are always the better ones. Still not much excitement, but fulfilling, you know?” 
I wasn’t sure why he was telling me this. “Sure,” I said. 
"Oh, he likes it. His reality distortion field, it screws with his internal landscape. Makes it hard for him to figure out what he needs, what he wants, and what will make him miserable. I'm indispensable." 
He had a sudden, terrible thought. He didn't say anything, but she must have seen it on his face. 
"What is it? Tell me." 
"How do I know that you're on the level about any of this? Maybe you're just jerking me around. Maybe it's all made up -- the jetpacks, everything." He swallowed. "I'm sorry. I don't know where that came from, but it popped into my head --" 
"It's a fair question. Here's one that'll blow your mind, though: how do you know that I'm not on the level, and jerking you around?" 
They changed the subject soon after, with uneasy laughter. They ended up on a park bench near the family of dancing bears, whom they watched avidly. 
"They seem so happy ," he said. "That's what gets me about them. Like dancing was the secret passion of every bear, and these three are the first to figure out how to make a life of it." 
“Depends on what?” 
She appeared to be considering her next statement carefully. “You are aware we are under a serious national security threat if the proof is not contained before we can adapt our systems.” 
“I’m aware,” I said. 
“To that end, we’re not opposed to utilizing whatever assets might come our way. And you have proven to be remarkably efficient at tracking this group.” 
I tried to tease through her meaning. My head was still muzzy, but she couldn’t be saying what I thought she was saying. “What?” 
“Assuming you’ll cooperate fully, and that your identity and your story check out, we’d like to use you.” 
“You want to hire me?” 
Her lips thinned. “I didn’t say hire. I said use.” 
The skin on the back of my neck crawled. “You’re not the Secret Service, are you.” 
Some very unofficial branch of the Department of Homeland Security, one empowered to make whatever decisions necessary to protect the country...one to whom the petty crimes of a mercenary retrieval expert were insignificant as long as they could harness her as a bloodhound, unbound by the niceties of due process and lawyers...it all seemed so at odds with the bright white room and the woman’s crisp civilian clothes and short stylish haircut. 
From the cop’s perspective, it must have looked like the worst kind of evil luck. He’d barely gotten his hand inside his coat when my foot-flicked missile rocketed out of nowhere and smacked him in the forehead. His head snapped back, and he listed to the side and collapsed. 
God bless Newton’s Laws of Motion. 
Polk recoiled. “What the hell was that!” 
“ That was a cop,” I snapped. Five minutes with this kid and my irritation was already at its limit. 
“What? Then why did you—he could have helped us!” 
I resisted the urge to smack her. “You’re a drug smuggler.” 
“Not on purpose!” 
“Yeah, because that makes a difference. I don’t think the authorities are going to care that the Colombians weren’t too happy with you anymore. You don’t know enough to gamble on flipping on your crew, so you’re going to a very faraway island after this. Now shut up.” The perimeter was within sprinting distance now, and rocks would work for the compound’s guards as well. I scooped up a few, my hands instantly reading their masses. Projectile motion: my height, their heights, the acceleration of gravity, and a quick correction for air resistance—and then pick the right initial velocity so that the deceleration of such a mass against a human skull would provide the correct force to drop a grown man. 
"I'm cool." 
He appears to be anything but cool at the moment, but Ray is willing to take his word for it. He's been much less cool in the last half an hour so that what he's doing now must feel like an upswing on the coolness gauge. 
"Then come with me." 
his face crimson and he's missed the bottom button on his tunic so that his collar is uneven. 
Ray doesn't give him a chance to start asking questions. He doesn't have time to bring Becker up to speed in detail, which he knows is exactly what the Security Chief would want. 
He says, "You know that thing we decided wasn't happening? Looks like we were wrong." 
Becker gulps a breath. "A shedT "Took out your entire security team on this deck, save Mr. Diggs here, and has taken off for parts unknown. 
Kilgore, Rodriguez and I are going to hunt it down. You and Bobby are going to handle this deck and coordinate our movements as necessary. Notify security to seal off access to Pi and Sigma and any other decks about which I may contact you in the near future. I am the last person to tell anyone else how to do their job, but I'd strongly recommend that you get some reinforcements and some illumination down here as soon as humanly possibly and secure your perimeter." 
"Oh yes, of course it is, Rebecca" 
"Well, couldn't we say, 'The hollyhock might have been glad to see the rain, but there was a weak little hollyhock bud growing out of its stalk and it was afraid that that might be hurt by the storm; so the big hollyhock was kind of afraid, instead of being real glad'?" 
Miss Dearborn looked puzzled as she answered, "Of course, Rebecca, hollyhocks could not be sorry, or glad, or afraid, really." 
"We can't tell, I s'pose," replied the child; "but I think they are, anyway. Now what shall I say?" 
"The subjunctive mood, past perfect tense of the verb 'to know.'" 
"Oh, it is the saddest tense," sighed Rebecca with a little break in her voice; "nothing but IFS, IFS, IFS! And it makes you feel that if they only HAD known, things might have been better!" 
Miss Dearborn had not thought of it before, but on reflection she believed the subjunctive mood was a "sad" one and "if" rather a sorry "part of speech." 
"Give me some more examples of the subjunctive, Rebecca, and that will do for this afternoon," she said. 
Maybe this was serious. 
“How did your homework go?” she asked, being all responsi- ble again. 
“It’s done. Luckily, I got to do my section with Nikko and not with Marcella or Dave, which would have sucked.” I babbled for a while about some of the art...  the assignment was while I finished cleaning the refriger- ator, chattering just to fill in the big hole left by all the things I wasn’t telling Monica about my day - the parts that were none of her business. 
“This Nikko - he sounds pretty neat.” 
“He is. But it turns out he has a girlfriend, so it’s not like . . . 
you know. He’s a good guy, though.” 
She sat in a chair and rubbed her foot, absently fingering a hole in her tights. “What?” I asked, because something in her face told me she had something to say but didn’t know how to start. 
“I had a long conversation with Peter and Lauren today.” 
Wilson’s dad and his wife. My adoptive parents. My stomach clenched. “What do they want?” 
“They were just checking to make sure you’re okay.” 
I got off the bed and steadied myself, breathing deeply, forcing my brain to clear. Steve was wearing a shift, but his clothes were hanging from a hook on the door. For a long moment I just stared at the bruises on his face. 
"God, baby, what did he do to you?" 
No answer. 
"Come on, love. Please wake up." 
He didn't move, but his breathing was normal, not labored. I immediately decided I'd slap him around if I had to, any­thing to get him going and able to walk. 
"Honey, wake up. Please." I pulled his feet out of the bed and slid them around and onto the linoleum floor. I didn't know what kind of sedative he'd been injected with, but if I had to shake him out of it, fine. This was no time for half measures. "Come on ." 
I pulled him to his feet and dragged him across the floor to the slatted window at the rear of the room, where the predawn sounds of the forest beyond filled the air, mingled with the rain. What I needed was a...  breeze would have to do. 
It took ten minutes of working on him, with me barely able to hold a grasp on my own reality, but then his eyelids began to flutter. I kept talking to him, pleading and badger­ing, and when he finally started coming around, I began to walk him back and forth in front of the window. 
Mrs. Quelton only stared at her with those brilliant, dilated eyes. Lexy took the other woman’s hand, and it was as cold as ice, and utterly lifeless. 
“Mrs. Quelton! Are you ill?” she asked again. 
Somehow it added to her horror to see, as she bent over her, that the unfortunate woman’s face was ever so thickly covered with some curious sort of paint or powder. It made her seem like a grotesque and horrible marionette. 
“She’s old!” thought Lexy. “She’s terribly, terribly old!” 
She drew back her hand, for she could not touch that painted face. She didn’t fail in generous pity, but she could not overcome an instinctive repugnance. She turned around, intending to call the parlor maid, and there was Dr. Quelton striding down the long room with a glass in his hand. Without even glancing at Lexy, he stooped over his wife, raised her limp head on one arm, and put the glass to her lips. She drank the contents, and lay back again, with her eyes closed. Almost at once the color began to return to her ashen cheeks. Her arms quivered, and then she opened her eyes and looked up at him with a faint, dazed smile. 
“Till his bosses catch on, yeah,” said Arthur. 
Halliday pressed a hand to her mouth. “He has a family,” she said softly. 
“Well, he should’ve thought of that before he stole from the freakin’ NSA,” I said. “Or at least planned his theft a little better.” Bad tradecraft. I didn’t have any sympathy for that. 
Arthur shot me a look. 
“Do they know?” Halliday asked. “The government, do they know yet?” 
“Don’t know what they know,” said Arthur. “But they gonna find out. What did you tell them so far?” 
“Not much—just that he took it to give them. But when they said he wasn’t supposed to be the courier, I stopped talking immediately. Arthur, we must be able to do something. Tell them he never made the pick up after all, or that someone stole it from us—I don’t know. But we have to. Arthur, I know his children.” 
I’d predicted this would be her reaction, but it was still aggravating. “Why on earth do you want to protect him?” I said. “He betrayed you.” 
“He’s such an idealist.” Something like hollow laughter threaded Halliday’s voice. “In retrospect, it makes so much sense, what you say about him wanting to release it. Wanting to do a good thing. Whatever they’ll do to him for this, he doesn’t deserve it.” 
"Yeah, I'm thinking rationally. You saw that fax I got from Williams." 
"You think that was Alex Goddard seated next to her, right?" 
"Who else? When she was in her moonbeam phase, she must have heard about him and gone up there and ended up in his clutches. But why did she let him take her down to—?" 
"He told me he has a clinic in Central America. He called it 'a place of miracles.' And then Colonel Ramos shows up, part of the Guatemalan diplomatic corps. Put two and two together. That's got to be where they're taking her." 
"Who knows, but I'm going to get the boys downtown to put out a missing-persons APB nationwide. Gerry'll do it for me if I ask. Fuck New York's Finest. They ain't gonna do crap anyway." 
I listened wondering how to impress my bright idea upon him. The chances were Ramos was taking Sarah back to Guatemala. Probably right this minute. For some kind of un­finished business. Or just to hold her there as an insurance policy that Children of Light would never be mentioned in my picture. 
"I'm just asking for a chance," I said. "We'll work out the story on the way, get it straight. Give me one day, just one day." 
The other two nodded glumly and we set off downhill again, heading back towards home. I lived on Potrero Hill, Vanessa lived in the North Mission and Jolu lived in Noe Valley -- three wildly different neighborhoods just a few minutes' walk from one another. 
We turned onto Market Street and stopped dead. The street was barricaded at every corner, the cross-streets reduced to a single lane, and parked down the whole length of Market Street were big, nondescript 18-wheelers like the one that had carried us, hooded, away from the ship's docks and to Chinatown. 
Each one had three steel steps leading down from the back and they buzzed with activity as soldiers, people in suits, and cops went in and out of them. The suits wore little badges on their lapels and the soldiers scanned them as they went in and out -- wireless authorization badges. As we walked past one, I got a look at it, and saw the familiar logo: Department of Homeland Security. The soldier saw me staring and stared back hard, glaring at me. 
“Everybody does. But it’s good for you to have a chance to interact with other people your age.” 
“I interact with them online all the time.” 
“It’s not the same as face to face.” 
“You got that right.” I...  is a lot less annoying.” 
A ctually, I wasn’t too bummed about the group project. It was a dumb assignment for a dumb teacher who gave us so many instructions that every assignment was like assembling a piece of Ikea furniture that was all pre-cut and just had to be put together according to a million detailed steps. The grade was totally based on how well you could follow instructions, and the finished prod- ucts were pointless. With Ikea, at least you ended up with a book- case or a table. 
The good news was that Marcella was on our team, and she was good at instructions, though terrible at everything else. She would make sure we got it done on time and didn’t miss any of the pointless little steps or end up banging it together like furniture that works but has a few missing nuts and bolts, getting points off for it. We also had Dave, who doubled down on being not good at things. It was his career path. He was so good at letting everyone else do all the work, I was sure he’s be a CEO of something one day. 
"Carly," I said, taking her hand again, "we'll get through this. Just trust me." 
We hugged one more time and then she was gone. I took the moment to double-lock the door, and then collapsed on the couch. What should be my next move? I closed my eyes and tried to review all the insidious things that had happened in the last twenty-four hours. The illegal drugs, the break-in and theft of my film, the suspicious nursery of Children of Light, the threats to Carly . . . 
Then it finally came back that she'd mentioned Ramos saying something about me. By now I was getting used to being threatened by the man, so one more time was hardly news. But I wished I'd asked her the specifics. 
That was when I roused myself and reached for the phone. The time was pushing eleven, but I still wanted to check in on Sarah, see how she was doing. Had she come back to reality after I left? 
I was listening to the phone ring, my mind drifting to thoughts of how to gently ask Lou about her, when I realized nobody was picking up. 
“Not that wagon.” 
It took him a minute to get it. Then he said, “Oh.” 
I signaled to the bartender again. “Don’t give me that look like I kicked your puppy. See, I knew you would react this way.” 
“Want to talk about it?” said Arthur. 
That wasn’t what I had expected him to say. “No. No, I don’t. The thing is, I realized—I don’t care. I really don’t care. I don’t feel bad about it. I don’t feel any different. And it’s so much easier.” 
“Okay,” said Arthur. 
“‘Okay?’ I go back to killing people willy-nilly again and that’s all you have to say to me?” 
The bartender put down our next two shots so hastily they sloshed over his wrists before he retreated into the back and out of sight. 
Arthur made a shushing gesture and peered around the near-empty dive to see if I’d freaked out anyone else. “Ain’t saying I’m happy about it, but...well, I ain’t believe the ‘willy-nilly,’ first off. Thing is, Russell, you might say you don’t care, but I know for a fact you ain’t no killer. Don’t like you taking no hard line again, but I still got faith you only charging the guilty.” 
“Such cynicism.” 
“Well, it’s true, isn’t it?” 
“It depends. In this case, it may show the authorities that peo- ple are paying attention. That they think these arrests are unjust.” 
“Or it might show that there aren’t many people willing to show up on a Sunday afternoon after a snowstorm for some kids who they say are terrorists. It’ll probably be a bust.” 
“Well, I want to show support for your brother, so I’ll be there.” 
“If you can get your car dug out.” 
“Novak’s picking me up, actually.” 
“Oh ho! Things are getting serious with Mexican Guy.” 
“Maybe you should start using his actual name. By the way, 
he’s just as upset with the NSA as you are. I have a feeling you two would get along. Will you need a ride?” 
“No thanks. I’ll probably hang out with Nikko later, so I’ll take my bike.” 
“Well, the offer is open if the weather gets worse,” Monica said, leaving off the usual lecture about how dangerous it was to ride a bike in the winter. She was getting resigned to it. 
When I finally went to bed, I peered out to see if the cop was still there. He wasn’t, and I began to wonder if I’d imagined the whole thing. 
"I took it all in," responded Mr. Cobb, who was pleased that "mother" agreed with him about Rebecca. "I ain't sure but she's goin' to turn out somethin' remarkable,—a singer, or a writer, or a lady doctor like that Miss Parks up to Cornish." 
"Lady doctors are always home'paths, ain't they?" asked Mrs. Cobb, who, it is needless to say, was distinctly of the old school in medicine. 
"Land, no, mother; there ain't no home'path 'bout Miss Parks—she drives all over the country." 
"I can't see Rebecca as a lady doctor, somehow," mused Mrs. Cobb. "Her gift o' gab is what's goin' to be the makin' of her; mebbe she'll lecture, or recite pieces, like that Portland elocutionist that come out here to the harvest supper." 
"I guess she'll be able to write down her own pieces," said Mr. Cobb confidently; "she could make 'em up faster 'n she could read 'em out of a book." 
"It's a pity she's so plain looking," remarked Mrs. Cobb, blowing out the candle. 
"PLAIN LOOKING, mother?" exclaimed her husband in astonishment. "Look at the eyes of her; look at the hair of her, an' the smile, an' that there dimple! Look at Alice Robinson, that's called the prettiest child on the river, an' see how Rebecca shines her ri' down out o' sight! I hope Mirandy'll favor her comin' over to see us real often, for she'll let off some of her steam here, an' the brick house'll be consid'able safer for everybody concerned. We've known what it was to hev children, even if 't was more 'n thirty years ago, an' we can make allowances." 
“Hmm,” he said. “Mickey McTaggart is quite good. But she works for the Lorenzos. I gathered you resolved things with Mama Lorenzo, but are you still persona non grata with them?” 
“I don’t know,” I said honestly. 
“Then I am unsure.” He thought for a moment. “If you require sensitivity to discretion, I do not know of anyone else local I would trust, at least not anyone I would recommend as having a high level of skill. I do know of perhaps a surprising number of people who work virtually, who have been clients of mine or who have partnered with my services on occasion, and whose abilities have impressed me. I stress that I do not know their bona fides, only that they have been honest in their business dealings with me, and as far as I can tell would have the expertise you require.” 
“I guess that’s better than nothing.” I preferred to meet people in person, in case I needed to track them down afterward for any reason. Particularly any reason that involved putting a gun to their heads. But there was some saying about beggars and choosers. “Anybody I can check out another way?” 
"Don't humor me," Grampa snapped. "I know what you all think of me. I can feel your goddamn blame. I can't do anything about it." 
"You could apologize," Ethan said. Adele took his hand and wiped at her tears with its back. 
"Fuck off, zombie," Grampa said, glaring at him. 
Sean's father stood abruptly. "I'm glad to see you're in good health, Pop," he said. "Sean, thanks for the ride. I guess I'll see you once you've finished your research." His face was hard, composed. "Adele, nice to have met you." 
"Likewise," Adele said. 
"Bye, then," Sean's father said, and walked with dignified calm to the elevator. 
"Bye, Dad," Sean called softly at his retreating back. 
He turned back to Grampa, but Grampa's eyes were dull, and he was methodically twitching, top-to-bottom. 
"Adele," Sean said, taking her free hand. 
"Yes?" she said. 
"How would you and Ethan like to come to Universal with me for the afternoon?" 
"I'd love to," Ethan said. Sean looked at Ethan, and couldn't decide if he was switched off or not. 
“Do you mean that you think it’s never possible to find out who’s guilty?” 
“Never,” he replied agreeably. “It can never be anything but a guess, as I said, based upon probabilities. Human senses, human judgment, human reason, are all pitifully liable to error.” 
Lexy was silent for a time, thinking over this. 
“Maybe you’re right,” she said slowly, “about the senses, and judgment, and reason. Perhaps their evidence isn’t always to be trusted; but there’s something else.” 
“Something else?” he repeated. “Something else? And what may that be?” 
Lexy looked up at him. There was a smile on his heavy, pallid face, aloof and contemptuous; but she was chiefly concerned just then in trying to put into words her own firm conviction, more for her own benefit than for his. It was not reason that had brought her here to look for Caroline, it was not reason that sustained her. 
“There’s something else,” she said again, with a frown. “There’s a way of knowing things without reason. It’s—I don’t know just how to put it, but it’s a thing beyond reason.” 
Valentine hugged her father’s leg. “My Popa will fight for the city,” she said. “He’s a hero.” 
He was. He’d fought in the revolution and he’d been given a medal for it. Sometimes when no one was looking, Valentine took out her parents’ medals and looked at their tiny writing, their shining, unscratchable surfaces, their intricate ribbons. 
The woman from the city gave her father a look that said, You see, a child understands, what’s your excuse? Valentine couldn’t quite feel guilty for taking the woman’s side. Leeza’s parents fought every day. 
“I must leave a note for my wife,” he said. Valentine realized that for the first time in her life her parents were going to leave her all on her own and felt a thrill. 
Two weeks and one day after the siege began, her Mata came home and the city came for Valentine. 
Mata was grimy and exhausted, and she favored one leg as she went about the flat making them cold cereal with...  dried fruits. Trover looked curiously at her as though he didn’t recognize her, but eventually he got in her way and she snapped at him to move already and he pitched a relieved fit, pounding his fists and howling. How that little boy could howl! 
“That’s my girl.” He pretended to inspect the paint-work around the light switch. “Been on the scales this week?” 
She had, of course: the school nutritionist saw to that, a morning humiliation undertaken in full sight of all the other fatties. 
“Yes, Dad.” 
“And—?” 
“I’ve lost a stone,” she said. A little more than a stone, actually. She had been able to fit into last year’s jeans the other day. 
She hadn’t been the sweets-shop in a month. When she thought about sweets, it made her think of the little girls in the sweatshop. Sweatshop, sweetshop. The sweets shop man sold his wares close to the school because little girls who didn’t know better would be tempted by them. No one forced them, but they were kids and grownups were supposed to look out for kids. 
Her da beamed at her. “I’ve lost three pounds myself,” he said, holding his tum. “I’ve been trying...  
“I know, Da,” she said. It embarrassed her to discuss it with him. 
The kids in the sweatshops were being exploited by grownups, too. It was why their situation was so impossible: the adults who were supposed to be taking care of them were exploiting them. 
Arthur shot him a look. “Ex-cop here, remember? But I’m fair sure it ain’t nothing you’ll accept help with, and I ain’t think you’re no danger to yourself. Normally. Am I right?” 
I sighed. I wanted them to go away. The conversation was too loud, beating in time with the pounding in my skull. “So why are you here, then?” I couldn’t speak quite as forcefully as I wanted to. My stomach was still determined to revolt, and I had to keep it calm. 
“Because you’ve lost large chunks of your memory,” said Checker, “And we want to help you look into it.” 
My stomach gave an extra savage twist, and I quickly tried to swallow against it. I won the battle, barely. “I said no.” 
“We think something might be making you say that,” said Arthur, and I could tell they had rehearsed this. “Can you give us a good reason why not?” 
“Or any reason,” put in Checker, with grim blitheness. 
“Because first of all, you’re wrong, and second, it’s my life, and I say no.” 
“Not good enough,” said Checker. 
“Fuck off,” I shot back eloquently. 
“Shut up, you imbecile.” 
I sniffed his shoulder. He always smelled good, like green tea, 
or maybe mint, or just the fresh way clothes smell when they’ve been hung outside on a clothesline. You are not going to cry, I told myself. Absolutely not. No way. I blinked hard a few times and I didn’t. 
“So, what is this crazy thing?” he asked. 
“It’s really, truly crazy.” I pushed him away. He waited. “It’s dangerous. It could turn really bad. And it would take an excel- lent actor to pull it off.” 
He spread his arms and gave me a look as if to say, Hello ? Right here in front of you. 
“So of course I thought of you, but you’ve got other stuff to do, and this is going to take lots of time and chances are you’d end up in jail or on the news or both. I can’t ask you to do this.” 
“I would love to be on the news. Jail, not so much. Luckily, my dad’s a lawyer. What is it you want me to do?” 
I looked around to make sure we couldn’t be overheard. “I need someone to make friends with a guy and get him to talk about blowing things up. And rat him out to the FBI so that they can set up a sting and arrest the guy as a terrorist.” 
“You all right?” I asked. 
He kept staring. 
“Are. You. Hit?” I enunciated. Is this what they called shock? I wouldn’t have thought Tresting would go in for shock, being an ex-cop and all. 
“That window’s two stories up,” he said. 
“That’s right,” I agreed. “Good job, I guess that’s why they call you a private eye. Now, seriously, are you okay?” 
He touched his right bicep; blood glistened on his fingertips. “Graze. Lucky, I guess.” His eyes flickered over the scene. Four bodies. Broken glass and dirt everywhere. “It had bars on it,” he whispered. 
I’m not going to lie: I like impressing people. Especially people who’ve just walked away from me in the street and told me they never want to speak to me again. 
“Yup,” I said. “I’m just that good.” 
“You’re bleeding,” Tresting managed, once he had found his voice again. 
“So I am,” I said. I have a hyper-awareness of my own body; all the math in the world won’t help me if I can’t match calculation with reality. I can make estimates about other people’s anatomies, but mine I know every detail of at any time, and I knew I’d sustained five shallow cuts on my face, neck, and hands, and that none of them were worth worrying about. “So are you,” I added. 
Trish fluttered her hands. "God, don't give me that kind of responsibility." 
"All right then, into the ocean. We're making this happen, is what's important." 
"Thanks, babe," Trish said. She put on a brave smile until the lawyer had backed out of the office, then stared down at her calendar and looked at her morning schedule. Three congressional staffers, a committee co-chair, an ACLU researcher, and the head of the newly formed Emergent Network Suppliers' Industry Association -- a man she had last seen in her office at UCLA, backing away from a long and melancholy hug. 
When he rang off the phone and joined her, finally, she straightened out her smart cardigan and said, "Damian, you're certainly looking... well." 
"...funded," he finished, with a small smile. The Emergent Network Suppliers' Industry Association's new offices were in a nice Federal Revival building off Dupont Circle, with lots of stained glass that nicely set off the sculptural and understated furniture. "It's not as grand as appearances suggest, Trish. We got it for a song from the receivers in the Church of Scientology's bankruptcy, furnishings included. It is nice though. Don't you think?" 
"How can you be so sure?" 
"Something they said. I didn't quite catch it, but it sounded like, 'He wants you back.' Then some word. It sounded like 'Babylon' or something." 
I stared at him a second trying to remember where I'd heard that before. Then it clicked in. That was the last thing Sarah had said she'd whispered that word when I was putting her to bed. What could she have been talking about? 
He wheezed and I went back to him and pressed the towel against his side. The bleeding was about stemmed but he was definitely due for a hospital stay. A siren was sounding down the street. Probably the ambulance. Thank God I thought. Now it's time to call the police. 
Then I noticed he was crying. What was that about? 
"Morgy, they didn't actually kidnap her. You see, she—" 
"What?" I guess I was trying to take it in. "What do you mean?" 
"Know what she said? Sarah?" He choked for a second, then continued. "She said, 'Yes, I want to go back.' " 
B efore I could ask him what the hell he was talking about, the medics were ringing the doorbell. They strode in with a gurney, also rolling a portable plasma IV, young guys who looked like they'd be more at home at a Garden hockey game, followed immediately by two uniformed policemen, actually policewomen, one short and heavy, with reddish hair, the other a wiry young Hispanic. (I found out that ambulances called out for stabbing or gunshot wounds automatically get a cop escort.) In less than three minutes, Lou was in the blue-and-white ambulance and on his way to St. Vincent's emergency room. 
“No fair. Cops can lie, right?” 
“Unless under oath. So?” 
“I was just curious about what happens if a cop lies to a federal official.” 
“Their heads explode.” 
“That would be awesome.” 
“No, it wouldn’t, but my head will explode if you keep wasting my time. Do you have any more questions pertaining to some- thing other than prurient interest?” 
“Prur . . . how do you spell that?” 
“Look it up in the dictionary.” She had a killer glare. I wouldn’t want to be facing her in a courtroom. “Zenobia, you need to take care. Your brother has enough problems.” 
“I know.” 
“And you’re aware of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act and its penalties?” I started to speak, but she held up a warning finger. 
“Constrain your answer to a yes or no.” 
“Yes.” 
She studied me for a moment. “Hypothetically, if you were going to help your brother, what would you do? Aside from drag- ging a lawyer out of retirement and getting her to do a lot of work for free.” 
“You actually want to know?“ “Let’s keep this in the realm of hypotheticals. That is, based on a proposed theory rather than actual — “ “I know what the word means.” I also knew that she wanted to find out what I was planning without having to spill the beans if questioned under oath. “What I might do to help my brother is show the world how the FBI tricks people into saying they’re going to do things that they would never do if the FBI hadn’t goaded them into it. How the FBI encourages people to say they’re going to break the law just so they’ll have a chance to arrest them. 
"I shouldn't like to go against your feelings, especially in laying out your money, Miranda," said Jane. 
"Don't tell Rebecca I've willed her the brick house. She won't git it till I'm gone, and I want to take my time 'bout dyin' and not be hurried off by them that's goin' to profit by it; nor I don't want to be thanked, neither. I s'pose she'll use the front stairs as common as the back and like as not have water brought into the kitchen, but mebbe when I've been dead a few years I shan't mind. She sets such store by you, she'll want you to have your home here as long's you live, but anyway I've wrote it down that way; though Lawyer Burns's wills don't hold more'n half the time. He's cheaper, but I guess it comes out jest the same in the end. I wan't goin' to have the fust man Rebecca picks up for a husband turnin' you ou'doors." 
There was a long pause, during which Jane knit silently, wiping the tears from her eyes from time to time, as she looked at the pitiful figure lying weakly on the pillows. 
“That window’s two stories up,” he said. 
“That’s right,” I agreed. “Good job, I guess that’s why they call you a private eye. Now, seriously, are you okay?” 
He touched his right bicep; blood glistened on his fingertips. “Graze. Lucky, I guess.” His eyes flickered over the scene. Four bodies. Broken glass and dirt everywhere. “It had bars on it,” he whispered. 
I’m not going to lie: I like impressing people. Especially people who’ve just walked away from me in the street and told me they never want to speak to me again. 
“Yup,” I said. “I’m just that good.” 
“You’re bleeding,” Tresting managed, once he had found his voice again. 
“So I am,” I said. I have a hyper-awareness of my own body; all the math in the world won’t help me if I can’t match calculation with reality. I can make estimates about other people’s anatomies, but mine I know every detail of at any time, and I knew I’d sustained five shallow cuts on my face, neck, and hands, and that none of them were worth worrying about. “So are you,” I added. 
“Not really. He’s eight years older than me.” 
“If you’re not close, why are you doing all this?” 
“Because ... I don’t know. He’s pretty annoying, but he doesn’t deserve to be in jail. None of them do.” 
He nodded, and kept on nodding, as if his neck had a loose spring. His eyes drooped shut and for a moment I thought he was asleep. “Hey, sorry I made fun of your name.” 
“I’m used to it.” 
“Me too. First two minutes at preschool and I was Zeke the Freak. Man, I hated school. Do you, like . . .” He got distracted, lis- tening to something Ian was telling Geoff. “Do you still have to go to school?” 
“Yeah, but it’s online. It could be worse.” 
“Sorry if I acted kind of . . . I’m still trying to match you up with Shad, you know? I had this different picture in my head. Not a girl.” He pressed his lips together and tried to hold it in for a minute, little snorts leaking out. “Named Zenobia.” He was howl- ing with laughter again as the party started to break up. 
Jason and Tyler stayed behind to take apart the traveling Fara- day cage and erase all signs of our presence. Outside, the freezing rain had turned into snow. Ian said I couldn’t ride my bike in such awful weather. For some reason, I didn’t mind him fussing at me, 
That was a good question. What did trust mean, exactly? “To have my back,” I said. 
“I have to think about this.” 
“He got Arthur and me out of there.” 
“He did?” 
“Yes. I told you, I trust him.” I tried for impatient, but the words just came out drained. 
“He’s after Pithica?” 
“Yes.” 
“I have to think about this,” said Checker again. “I’ll—I’ll call you back.” 
He hung up the phone and I leaned my head against the wall. The pounding of the rain reverberated through it, a steady thrum. A moment ago I’d been so hopeful. So sure we had a chance, that we could do this, but for the first time I could remember, I needed help to make it happen, and nobody wanted to jump with me. Why did everything involving people have to be so difficult? 
Rio came over. “Other plans notwithstanding, we should change location,” he said. “Tresting told me you were made.” 
“I lost them,” I said. 
“Regardless, now that you are well enough to travel, you should leave Los Angeles. Other plans can wait. Pithica will be able to track you here eventually.” 
“You were hit?” her mother said. Valentine didn’t answer. She didn’t trust herself to speak with her mother looking at her like that. “They won’t want you now you’ve lost that tooth,” she said. “You can go back to digging now.” 
She stood up from the table without a word and went out of the flat. She was so feverish that she couldn’t tell if the stairs went down or up, whether she was descending or ascending. 
She tottered out on the street. The way she felt, she couldn’t walk properly. Her hips wanted to give way with every step and so she walked like a funky disco dancer through the early, cold streets, toward the wizard’s house. 
She didn’t make it. Less than half way there, she sat down on a pile of rubble and retched. She reached down into her pocket and pulled out the wizard’s inhaler, but she fumbled it. She couldn’t bend over to get it, so she let herself slowly fall to the street, then she crawled one-armed to it. She fitted it to her mouth and then squeezed it with clumsy fingers. 
A long, forlorn and ululating cry chases them the final distance. 
But they don't burst into the chamber as Ray would have them do, as they'd drilled it. Three steps, then a sort of stumbling halt. The soldier mentality drops away, submerged in a vat of darkness that is thick like oil.  The chamber is large, a man-made dome maybe thirty meters across. At regular alcoves around its edges, 
guttering clay lamps illuminate the dun colored rock, staining the curved walls black with their smoke in straight trails that look like charred ribs. There are a dozen men in the center of the floor, ranked into four neat files; they're down on their knees, the pose of a good Muslim facing toward Mecca. Except they're not praying. Rather, they're bent at the waist, their torso's straight, their arms extended above their head, and they slap their hands against the bare stone floor. The tight cadence of their slapping has become a reverberation that Ray heard in the tunnel, the chamber itself acting like a bell to their clapping. At the twelve o'clock, there is a sort of natural eruption of stone, a lectern that is melted like wax. Beside the lectern is a pool, a well surrounded by a low, stone parapet in the shape of a ring. The well is full to the top with a turbid and brackish and foul smelling water. In the space between pool and clappers, a shallow depression has been carved. 
"Jennifer," he said. She nodded. "Ria." She had a poker-face on, as unreadable as a slab of granite. She was wearing her customary denim and flowing cotton, but she'd kept her shoes on and her feet on the ground. "Brautigan," and Brautigan grinned like it was Christmas morning. 
Jennifer looked flatly at a place just to one side of his gaze, a trick he knew, and said, "In recognition of his excellent work, Mr Brautigan's been promoted, effective today. He is now Manager for Major Accounts." Brautigan beamed. 
"Congratulations," Leon said, thinking, What excellent work? No one at Ate has accomplished the agency's primary objective in the entire history of the firm! "Well done." 
Jennifer kept her eyes coolly fixed on that empty, safe spot. "As you know, we have struggled to close a deal with any of our major accounts." He restrained himself from rolling his eyes. "And so Mr Brautigan has undertaken a thorough study of the way we handle these accounts." She nodded at Brautigan. 
"It's a mess," he said. "Totally scattergun. No lines of authority. No checks and balances. No system." 
Did what? Got himself on the wrong side of a few dozen rats? Dumped a couple of liters of hydrochloric acid into his lap? Swallowed a thermite grenade? 
Stupid thoughts, attempts to grapple with something his mind refuses to understand. It takes awhile to orient himself, always does, no matter how many times you've seen it or things exactly like it before. To get over the automatic response that this isn't a hallucination or a joke, or just something unintelligible that his eyes can't process correctly. 
But it's exactly what it seems to be. A kid, a boy, probably eleven or twelve years old. The flesh is white, 
marbled with blue veins, bruised along the naked buttocks and back where seeping blood has gathered just beneath the skin. Head thrown back, eyes wide and glassy, mouth open in a rictus howl that is black and wide and toothy, with the lips drawn up in a snarl. Hands splayed, legs wide, spread-eagled, toes and fingers jabbed at the cardinal points. And a gaping cavity, a melange of dark crusted blood and white bone, where the torso should be. A body hollowed out like a canoe, done with tools as crude as paleolithic stone knifes. 
"What are you talking about?" 
"Ray, my family didn't 'end up on' New Holyoke. We own it. We-meaning vessels and crews in our employ- we discovered it; we went to the Congressional Forum with a request for charter and trade rights; we paid cash money for private settlement and exclusive commerce considerations with the promise that we'd get a colony up and running and shipping raw materials back to Terra within a half century. It's China all over again, you might say, and it's the dirty secret behind the Whiston Charitable Trust." 
"The Trust is a tax break?" Ray barks, astounded. Then he's laughing, and she's laughing along with him. 
"That's clever. Insidiously so, or admirably so. I'm not quite certain which."  "You can't tell anyone, of course, and the Terran branch of the family would deny it, probably destroy you in the process. Or at least to the extent that they'd care. I think they're still angry that Grandfather Fram cut them out of the deal." 
"Who'd believe it?" He slaps his palm against his forehead. "You're serious! You really own the entire planet?" 
"You must 'a' laid all over the breedge, deary," said Mrs. Cobb; "for the paint 's not only on your elbows and yoke and waist, but it about covers your front breadth." 
As the garment began to look a little better Rebecca's spirits took an upward turn, and at length she left it to dry in the fresh air, and went into the sitting-room. 
"Have you a piece of paper, please?" asked Rebecca. "I'll copy out the poetry I was making while I was lying in the paint." 
Mrs. Cobb sat by her mending basket, and uncle Jerry took down a gingham bag of strings and occupied himself in taking the snarls out of them,—a favorite evening amusement with him. 
Rebecca soon had the lines copied in her round school-girl hand, making such improvements as occurred to her on sober second thought. 
She read it aloud, and the Cobbs thought it not only surpassingly beautiful, but a marvelous production. 
"I guess if that writer that lived on Congress Street in Portland could 'a' heard your poetry he'd 'a' been astonished," said Mrs. Cobb. "If you ask me, I say this piece is as good as that one o' his, 'Tell me not in mournful numbers;' and consid'able clearer." 
All I had to do now was convince everyone I knew to use it too. 
Believe it or not, my parents made me go to school the next day. I'd only fallen into feverish sleep at three in the morning, but at seven the next day, my Dad was standing at the foot of my bed, threatening to drag me out by the ankles. I managed to get up -- something had died in my mouth after painting my eyelids shut -- and into the shower. 
I've walked to school a thousand times, but today it was different. I went up and over the hills to get down into the Mission, and everywhere there were trucks. I saw new sensors and traffic cameras installed at many of the stop-signs. Someone had a lot of surveillance gear lying around, waiting to be installed at the first opportunity. The attack on the Bay Bridge had been just what they needed. 
It all made the city seem more subdued, like being inside an elevator, embarrassed by the close scrutiny of your neighbors and the ubiquitous cameras. ...  Street fixed me up good with a...  enough to stand a spoon up in, and it...  like Red Bull. Take it from someone who's read the Wikipedia entry: this is how the Ottoman Empire was won: maddened horsemen fueled by...  out my debit card to pay and he made a face. "No more debit," he said. 
The same thing had occurred once before, after I broke my collarbone in the Pacific surf that slammed a Mexican beach south of Puerto Villarta. When a kindly Mexican doc­tor was later binding on a harness to immobilize my shoulder, the pain was such that I momentarily passed out while sitting on a stool in his office. I didn't fall over or collapse; it just seemed as though my mind, fleeing the incredible pain, drifted away in a haze of sensation. 
Now the pastel blue walls of the room slowly faded to white, and then I was somewhere else, a universe away, sur­rounded by blank nothingness. I tried to focus on the bronze Shiva directly across, but the ring of fire around him had become actual flames. The only reality left was the powerful touch of Alex Goddard's hands and a drone that could have been the music of the spheres. 
S ometime thereafter, in a reverie, I felt myself in a magical forest whose lush vines reminded me of Kerala in India. It was a verdant, hazy paradise, another Eden. A child was with me, a child of my own, and I felt jubilation. I watched the child as she grew and became a resplendent orchid. 
They all returned uncomprehending looks, then glanced quickly at each other in confusion. Or at least that was how I read their faces. 
"Sarah," I said, pronouncing the name slowly. "Sarah Crenshaw." 
"Sara," one voiced, then others. They backed away and immediately began a heated dispute, which eventually in­volved all the women. Well, one thing was for sure: They damned well knew who I was asking about. But why were they so upset? Next, several of them grew testy, pointing at me as they continued to argue. 
Finally the two I'd first approached turned and began urg­ing me to leave, gesturing at me with their hands as though sweeping me out of the compound. Yes, there was no mis­taking. I was being dismissed. And I detected an odd ner­vousness as they glanced around, seemingly worried somebody might catch me there with them. I got the feeling they'd finally decided they didn't want me anywhere near them, since they kept pointing down the thoroughfare in the direction of the pyramid. 
I've blown it, I thought. They must have figured out I'm here to get her and decided they no longer want to have anything to do with me. What did that mean? 
Leon stood. "Maybe I should go and find Ria." 
Viktor made a disgusted noise. "Fine. And ask her why she didn't finish the job? Ask her if she decided to do it right then, or if she'd planned it? Ask her why...  of the bread-knife? Because, you know, I wonder this myself." 
Leon backpedaled, clumsy in the overinflated suit. He struggled to get into the airlock, and as it hissed through its cycle, he tried not to think of Ria straddling the old...  falling. 
She was waiting for him on the other side, also overinflated in her suit. "Let's go," she said, and took his hand, the rubberized palms of their gloves sticking together. She half-dragged him through the many rooms of Viktor's body, tripping through the final door, then spinning him around and ripping, hard, on the release cord that split the suit down the back so that it fell into two lifeless pieces that slithered to the ground. He gasped out a breath he hadn't realized he'd been holding in as the cool air made contact with the thin layer of perspiration that filmed his body. 
I glanced at my watch. NO! The time was 4:58 A.M. He was coming at nine o'clock last night. . . . 
I was standing there in horror, unnatural colors flitting across my vision, when I heard . . . 
"It's almost morning." 
I jumped as Alex Goddard walked into the room, dressed in white, hair falling around his shoulders. He took Tz'ac Tzotz from his crib, checked the number on his amulet, and then absently put him back. Next he examined me, his eyes brimming with concern. 
"How're you feeling?" He placed his hand on my brow. When I looked around for Marcelina, I realized she'd van­ished. 
"Where's Steve?" I felt the bottom dropping out of my world, my whole body trembling. "If you've harmed so much as a hair on his head, I'll—" 
"He's here," he said quietly. 
"I want to see him." Dear God, what had I done? I wanted to die. 
"If you insist. He's just downstairs." 
We slowly walked down the marble steps, my mind flood­ing with more and more hallucinations. When we reached the first floor, he opened the door of a room adjacent to his office. I realized the window slats were open, sending a rush of moist air across my face. Then he motioned me forward and clicked on the bedside light. 
But remember: for crypto to work, you need to have keys for the people you want to talk to. You and your partner need to share a secret or two, some keys that you can use to encrypt and decrypt your messages so that men-in-the-middle get locked out. 
That's where the idea of public keys comes in. This is a little hairy, but it's so unbelievably elegant too. 
In public key crypto, each user gets two keys. They're long strings of mathematical gibberish, and they have an almost magic property. Whatever you scramble with one key, the other will unlock, and vice-versa. What's more, they're the only keys that can do this -- if you can unscramble a message with one key, you know it was scrambled with the other (and vice-versa). 
So you take either one of these keys (it doesn't matter which one) and you just publish it. You make it a total non-secret . You want anyone in the world to know what it is. For obvious reasons, they call this your "public key." 
The other key, you hide in the darkest reaches of your mind. You protect it with your life. You never let anyone ever know what it is. That's called your "private key." (Duh.) 
Thy family's grateful love. 
Your loving little friend, Rebecca. 
Dear John,—You remember when we tide the new dog in the barn how he bit the rope and howled I am just like him only the brick house is the barn and I can not bite Aunt M. because I must be grateful and edducation is going to be the making of me and help you pay off the morgage when we grow up. Your loving Becky. 
The day of Rebecca's arrival had been Friday, and on the Monday following she began her education at the school which was in Riverboro Centre, about a mile distant. Miss Sawyer borrowed a neighbor's horse and wagon and drove her to the schoolhouse, interviewing the teacher, Miss Dearborn, arranging for books, and generally starting the child on the path that was to lead to boundless knowledge. Miss Dearborn, it may be said in passing, had had no special preparation in the art of teaching. It came to her naturally, so her family said, and perhaps for this reason she, like Tom Tulliver's clergyman tutor, "set about it with that uniformity of method and independence of circumstances which distinguish the actions of animals understood to be under the immediate teaching of Nature." You remember the beaver which a naturalist tells us "busied himself as earnestly in constructing a dam in a room up three pair of stairs in London as if he had been laying his foundation in a lake in Upper Canada. It was his function to build, the absence of water or of possible progeny was an accident for which he was not accountable." In the same manner did Miss Dearborn lay what she fondly imagined to be foundations in the infant mind. 
It was a taxi. She sprang out into the road and waved her arms. 
“Taxi!” she shouted joyously. 
The car stopped with a jolt, and the driver jumped out. 
“Now, then! What’s up?” he demanded suspiciously. From a safe distance, the light of an electric torch was flashed in her face. “Well, I’ll be gosh-darned!” said he. “Ain’t you the boarder up to Mrs. Royce’s?” 
“Yes! I am! I am!” cried Lexy, overwhelmed with delight. “Can you take me there?” 
“I can,” he replied; “but what on earth are you doing out here?” 
“I got lost,” said Lexy. “Where is this, anyhow?” 
“Wyngate station,” said he. “I’ll be gosh-darned! I never! Lost?” 
“Yes,” said Lexy. “Aren’t you the driver who took me up the day I came here?” 
“That’s me—only taxi in Wyngate. Took you out to the Queltons’, too. Hop in, miss!” 
His engine had stalled, and he set to work to crank it, while Lexy stood beside him. 
“Drive awfully fast, will you?” she asked. 
He was too busy to answer for a moment. Then, when his engine was running again, he straightened up and looked at her. 
But, disregarding him, Lexy turned to Mrs. Royce. 
“Let me see her,” she said. 
Mrs. Royce led the way upstairs. She went at an unusual rate of speed, so that she was panting when she reached the top. 
“Kind of vi’lent!” she whispered, pointing downstairs, where Captain Grey was. 
“This room?” asked Lexy. “Shall I go in?” 
“Well,” said Mrs. Royce, “seems to me I’d knock, if I was you.” 
Knock on the door of the room where Mrs. Quelton lay? Knock, and expect an answer from that voice? It seemed to Lexy, for a moment, that she could not raise her hand. 
But she did. She knocked, and she was answered. She turned the handle and went in. An oil lamp stood on the bureau, and outside the circle of its mellow light, in the shadow, Mrs. Quelton was sitting on the edge of the bed; and it seemed to Lexy that she had never seen such a forlorn and pitiful figure. 
“Oh, my dear!” she cried impulsively, and held out her arms. 
Mrs. Quelton rose. She came toward Lexy, her hands outstretched—when a sudden cry from Mrs. Royce arrested her. 
“But it’s on the wall.” 
She stared back at me. 
“That’s really cool. Was that your idea?” 
She took a deep breath. “No. In ancient times, telephones were frequently attached to walls. Have you got my computer run- ning?” 
“Does my brother have a lawyer?” 
She glanced at the clock over the sink. “He had one nearly an hour ago. I win.” 
“Wait. Is it a good lawyer?” 
“A very good lawyer.” 
“What’s her name? Luisa what?” 
“Luisa Cruz, but she’s a 3 L assisting with the case. Is the com- puter working?” 
“What’s a 3 L?” 
“A law student in her third year.” 
“ What 1 That’s bullshit! Wilson needs a real lawyer, not some student.” 
“He needs an entire legal team,” she said firmly. “And he now has one, which includes Luisa Cruz, who has a gifted mind and is willing to work on Friday evening when most people her age would be having fun. Now, I’d like to see that video, if the com- puter is capable of playing it.” 
“Course it is.” Somehow she’d made me feel embarrassed that I had been yelling. That never happens. Well, yelling happens, but feeling bad about it doesn’t. That calm, confident voice made me feel a weird mix of being ashamed and stroked at the same time. 
The little schoolhouse on the hill had its moments of triumph as well as its scenes of tribulation, but it was fortunate that Rebecca had her books and her new acquaintances to keep her interested and occupied, or life would have gone heavily with her that first summer in Riverboro. She tried to like her aunt Miranda (the idea of loving her had been given up at the moment of meeting), but failed ignominiously in the attempt. She was a very faulty and passionately human child, with no aspirations towards being an angel of the house, but she had a sense of duty and a desire to be good,—respectably, decently good. Whenever she fell below this self-imposed standard she was miserable. She did not like to be under her aunt's roof, eating bread, wearing clothes, and studying books provided by her, and dislike her so heartily all the time. She felt instinctively that this was wrong and mean, and whenever the feeling of remorse was strong within her she made a desperate effort to please her grim and difficult relative. 
Since Dawna. 
I lay on the blankets and tried to latch onto the shreds of the dream, an intense feeling of déjà vu overpowering me. Places, faces—they wavered just out of reach, the itch of forgotten memory overwhelming my brain and twisting my stomach until I tasted bile at the back of my throat. Whatever had crawled through my subconscious last night, I had seen it before. 
Or dreamt it before. 
Pain in my knuckles slammed the images away. I’d put my fist through the drywall next to the mattress. 
I wiped blood and plaster dust off the back of my hand with my shirt and dragged myself out of bed to find more alcohol. The bottles from the night before—or whenever I had last been awake—were empty, expanding in a glass forest across table and floor and attesting to my usual company. 
Halberd. 
I picked up a bottle with a stylized drawing of an axe on the label. 
Halberd. Why had I just thought that? 
The word pinged me like a fragment of another forgotten dream, a half-buried shred of awareness. 
Lexy did not try to undeceive him. Her story would be too fantastic for him to believe. Nobody would believe it, except a person with absolute faith not only in her honesty but in her intelligence and clearsightedness; and there was no such person. She was not resentful or grieved over this. She accepted it quietly, and prepared to go forward alone. 
It had occurred to her lately that perhaps Mr. Houseman had been right, and that Caroline had gone away of her own free will; but she meant to know . She had seen the missing girl in Dr. Quelton’s house. Whatever the doctor might say about the false evidence of the senses, Lexy’s confidence in her own clear gray eyes was not in the least shaken. She had seen Caroline once, and she was going to see her again. That was why she was going to the Tower. 
“It’ll do Muriel no end of good,” said Captain Grey, when they were in the taxi. “She’s—to tell you the truth, Miss Moran, I don’t feel altogether easy about her.” 
“Why?” asked Lexy, very curious to know what he thought. 
I moved down the narrow corridor on hands and knees, heading for the light. I felt her hands slap at my feet and ankles twice, and I had to shove aside some of the boxes that had walled us in like a Pharaoh in a tomb. A few of them fell down behind me, and I heard Masha grunt again. 
The rolling truck door was open a crack and I dove for it, slithering out under it. The steps had been removed and I found myself hanging over the road, sliding headfirst into it, clanging my head off the blacktop with a thump that rang my ears like a gong. I scrambled to my feet, holding the bumper, and desperately dragged down on the door-handle, slamming it shut. Masha screamed inside -- I must have caught her fingertips. I felt like throwing up, but I didn't. 
I padlocked the truck instead. 
None of the three guys were around at the moment, so I took off. My head hurt so much I thought I must be bleeding, but my hands came away dry. My twisted ankle had frozen up in the truck so that I ran like a broken marionette, and I stopped only once, to cancel the photo-deletion on Masha's phone. I turned off its radio -- both to save battery and to keep it from being used to track me -- and set the sleep timer to two hours, the longest setting available. I tried to set it to not require a password to wake from sleep, but that required a password itself. I was just going to have to tap the keypad at least once every two hours until I could figure out how to get the photo off of the phone. I would need a charger, then. 
“Go!” said Mrs. Enderby. 
The lady’s tone aroused in Lexy a great desire not to go. Of course, now that she had gone so far, it would be childish to refuse to continue; but she meant to take her time. She stood there by the window, slowly drawing off her gloves, her back turned to the room. Suddenly Mrs. Enderby caught her by the shoulder and turned her around. 
“Go!” she said again. “Take off those things of my child’s. Have you no heart?” 
There was such a note of anguish in her voice that Lexy no longer delayed. She followed Miss Craigie up the stairs to a neat, prim little bedroom, where the trunk stood, already unlocked. 
“If you want anything—” suggested Miss Craigie, in her gentle and apologetic way. 
“No, thank you,” replied Lexy. 
Miss Craigie went out, closing the door softly behind her. Lexy took off Caroline’s hat and coat and laid them on the bed. 
“I wonder if I’ll ever see her wearing them again!” she thought. 
For a long time she stood motionless, looking down at the things that Caroline had worn. Most pitifully eloquent, they seemed to her—the hat that had covered Caroline’s fair hair, the coat that had fitted her slender shoulders. Lexy looked and looked, grave and sorrowful—and in that moment her resolution was made. 
The Lancer sat back, self-satisfied, clacking his meditation balls. 
We drove north, and north, and after many miles and a few stops we pulled up among some overgrown concrete ruins on a bluff overlooking the Pacific. One of the men uncuffed me from the door and hustled me out with them, not overly roughly. Perhaps he was being respectful of the implication that I might someday be one of them. 
The Lancer levered himself out after us. He was a tall man, and large-framed, with a slight limp that he used his walking stick to mitigate. “Deliver,” he said to me factually, “or we’ll kill you.” 
“Okay,” I said, looking around. This place must have been an old collection of war bunkers, or...or something. I wasn’t sure. 
I wiped a sleeve across my forehead. I was sweating, and my self-inflicted surgery hadn’t stopped bleeding. The bandage I’d stuck over it had gotten heavy—I could feel it when I moved. 
My kidnappers nudged me toward a large gray cube that was taller than the rest, a proper building squatting on the cliff with tiny square holes punched in it instead of windows. The foundation was cracked, and tangled vines scraped themselves up the south side. We stepped around a rusted metal sculpture of discarded junk as we approached the heavy door. 
“I don’t know whether I really did see Caroline. I can’t feel certain of anything. Perhaps I ought to give up all this and go away and rest; only I’ve no place to go. There isn’t any one I can tell.” 
She straightened her shoulders and looked up at the vast, dark sky, where black clouds ran before a wind that snapped at their heels like a wolf; and the sight assuaged her. This world that lay under the open sky—the woods, the hills, and above all, the sea—was her world. It belonged to her equally with all God’s creatures. She had her part in it and her place. There was no one to whom she could turn for comfort, her faith in herself was cruelly shaken, and yet somehow she was not forsaken and helpless. Some one was coming. It was dark, but the light was coming! 
She went on, her brisk footsteps ringing out clearly in the silence. The road was bordered on both sides by woods, where the leaves whispered, and there was no sign anywhere of another human being; but the road must lead somewhere. It began to go steeply uphill, and she became aware for the first time that she was very tired and very hungry, and that one of her shoes was worn through; but she had her precious money in the bag around her neck, and, if she kept on going, she couldn’t help reaching some place where she could get food and rest. 
“Detective?” he said. 
Arturo looked up from his screen, keeping his expression neutral, not acknowledging the mean grins from the other four ranking detectives in the meeting. Silently, he turned his phone face-down on the meeting table. 
“Thank you,” he said. “Now, the latest stats show a sharp rise in grey-market electronics importing and other tariff-breaking crimes, mostly occurring in open-air market stalls and from sidewalk blankets. I know that many in law enforcement treat this kind of thing as mere hand-to-hand piracy, not worth troubling with, but I want to assure you, gentlemen and lady, that Social Harmony takes these crimes very seriously indeed.” 
The Social Harmony man lifted his computer onto the desk, steadying it with both hands, then plugged it into the wall socket. Detective Shainblum went to the wall and unlatched the cover for the projector-wire and dragged it over to the Social Harmony computer and plugged it in, snapping shut the hardened collar. The sound of the projector-fan spinning up was like a helicopter. 
Secretly she thought she could never be happy unless she won it. She cared nothing for the value of it, and in this case almost nothing for the honor; she wanted to please Mr. Aladdin and justify his belief in her. 
"If I ever succeed in choosing a subject, I must ask if you think I can write well on it; and then I suppose I must work in silence and secret, never even reading the essay to you, nor talking about it." 
Miss Maxwell and Rebecca were sitting by a little brook on a sunny spring day. They had been in a stretch of wood by the sea since breakfast, going every now and then for a bask on the warm white sand, and returning to their shady solitude when tired of the sun's glare. 
"The subject is very important," said Miss Maxwell, "but I do not dare choose for you. Have you decided on anything yet?" 
"No," Rebecca answered; "I plan a new essay every night. I've begun one on What is Failure? and another on He and She. That would be a dialogue between a boy and girl just as they were leaving school, and would tell their ideals of life. Then do you remember you said to me one day, 'Follow your Saint'? I'd love to write about that. I didn't have a single thought in Wareham, and now I have a new one every minute, so I must try and write the essay here; think it out, at any rate, while I am so happy and free and rested. Look at the pebbles in the bottom of the pool, Miss Emily, so round and smooth and shining." 
Trover let himself be led silently into the street and stayed at her side even when she let go of his hand to silently palm her mother’s sidearm. 
“Your mother would be ashamed of you,” the old hero said. “She wouldn’t have wasted the city’s time on her fantasies and vendettas.” 
She kept silent. She knew a nearby alley where no one ventured except for people who disappeared without a trace. Though she wanted to shout at him that her mother died for the city that the old hero had just betrayed, she kept silent. 
When they passed the alley-mouth, she hastily shoved Trover into it. He gave a cry and fell over. She ducked in after him. 
“He’s tripped! Help me!” she called. 
The old hero slowly negotiated his way into the alley and to her side. She was holding Trover down as he struggled to rise, but she hoped it looked like she was helping him up. Maybe it did, for the old hero bent at her side and she stuck the sidearm under his chin and pushed it hard into the wattle of skin there. 
“My mother died for this city, you traitorous worm,” she said, her jaws clenching with the effort of not shouting the words. “I would kill you right now if I didn’t think you could be of use to me.” 
He was there a month, following false leads, till he finally ran into a Reverend Ben Jackson, late of a self-styled Prot­estant ministry in Mississippi, who was one of the ardent new Evangelicals swarming over Central America. The man mentioned that some chicle harvesters in the northwest Peten Department of Guatemala had found a young woman in an old dugout canoe on the Guatemala side of the wide Usumacinta River, near a tributary called the Rio Tigre, lodged in amongst overhanging trees. She'd been struck on the head and presumably set adrift somewhere upriver, left for dead. She was now in a coma, resting at Jackson's "Jesus es el Hombre" clinic, also located deep in the northwest Peten rain forest. He had no idea who she was. 
Lou rented a car and drove there, almost a day on unpaved roads. It was Sarah. 
Thus she was no longer missing; she was now the apparent victim of an attempted murder. However, rather than being helpful, the local policia appeared annoyed she'd been found, thereby reopening the matter. A blond gringa was out hiking somewhere she had no business being in the first place and tripped and hit her head on something. Where's the crime? 
"The airlines." He almost grinned. "If they can keep track of everybody's damned frequent-flyer miles for years and years, they undoubtedly got flight manifests stored away somewhere too. So my first step is to find out where she flew from." 
"But we don't know which—" 
"Doesn't matter." He squinted again at the passport. "Now we know for sure she showed up at the airport in Guatemala City on that date there. I know somebody down­town, smooth black guy named John Williams, the FBI's best computer nerd, who could bend a rule for me and do a little B&E in cyberspace. He owes me a couple. So, if she was on a manifest for a scheduled flight into Guatemala City that day, he'll find it. Then we'll know where she left from, who else was on the plane." He tapped the passport confidently with his forefinger. "Maybe she was traveling with some scumbag I ought to look up and get to know better." 
"Well, good luck." 
In a way I was wondering if we weren't both now grasping for a miracle: me half-hoping for a baby through some New Age process of "centering," Lou trying to reclaim Sarah from her mental abyss with his gruff love. But then again, miracles have been known to happen. 
“I don’t want any supper to-night, thank you,” replied Lexy. 
Mrs. Royce expostulated and argued for a time, but she could not persuade Lexy even to unlock the door; and at last, with a worried sigh, she went downstairs again. 
The room was quite dark now, and the wind blowing in through the open window felt chill; but Lexy was too tired to close the window or light the gas. She was not drowsy. She lay stretched out, limp, overpowered with fatigue, but wide awake, and with a curious certainty that she was waiting for something. 
There was another knock at the door, and this time Captain Grey’s voice spoke. 
“I say, Miss Moran!” he said anxiously. “You’re not ill, are you?” 
“No!” she answered, with a trace of irritability. 
“But don’t you think you ought to eat something, you know? Or a cup of tea?” 
“No!” she cried, still more impatiently. “I can’t. I want to rest.” 
“Can you open the door for half a moment?” he asked. “I’ve some roses here that my sister sent to you. She wanted me to say—” 
"Come," Alex Goddard was saying as he lifted me up. "They're ready." 
W hen we reached the parking lot, several more Army thugs were waiting, grown-ups now, khaki shirts and dense mustaches, the regulation G-2 sunglasses even though it was still dark, with 9mm automatics in holsters at their belt. I took one look at them and I think I blacked out. Steve and I were about to "disappear," and possibly Sarah too. Probably in another hour or two. My tattered mind finally just slipped away. 
Soon afterward, I sensed myself being transported in a large vehicle, and after that I was being carried, up, up, as though I were floating into the coming dawn. When I re­gained consciousness, I realized I was standing in a rain­storm near a small stone building. A dozen Army men were huddled inside, shielding their cigarettes from the blowing rain while they guarded a row of olive-green bassinets. Around me, censers were spewing copal smoke into the soggy air. 
I became aware of the cooling sensation of the fresh rain across my face, and wondered if it might clear some of the toad venom (surely that was what it was) from my brain. Maybe it was working. Instead of seeing vivid colors every­where, I was abruptly experiencing a hyper acute clarity of every sensation. The stones beneath my bare feet were be­coming so articulated, I felt as though I could number every granule, every crystal, every atom. The paintings and carvings on the lintel above the door to the stone room—I rec­ognized it as where I'd spent the first night—sparkled, leapt out at me. 
“At least we know that once our lovely Dawna Polk seduces someone, she can shove him back the other way if she wants to,” I said. “Congratulations, it looks like you’ve been un-brainwashed. Though if you ever sell out Rio again, I will fucking kill you.” 
His expression was stricken. I wasn’t even sure he heard me. 
I sighed. “Besides, shouldn’t I be the one who gets to freak out here? All you’re doing is having a guilt complex meltdown. I think the impending death thing trumps that.” 
“How can you be—you’re cracking jokes?” He sounded broken. 
“What would you like me to do?” I asked. “Panic?” 
To be honest, I wasn’t sure why I wasn’t panicking. If Dawna had gotten to Rio, well, then he would kill me. But as soon as I had realized the implication of her words, it was as if she’d explained she wanted to set pi equal to three on pain of death and expected me to take it seriously. 
I trusted Rio. I trusted him completely. So Dawna telling me he would kill me was like insisting in perfect seriousness that black was white, or one equaled two, or the theorems in Euclidean geometry didn’t follow from the axioms. And given her skills, she could probably get me to believe any one of those before she would ever convince me Rio would kill me. The idea didn’t compute. And as if the very thought had caused an unending error message in my brain, I didn’t feel any reaction to it at all. 
In a way, though, the downtrodden decor actually made it more romantic, like we'd sneaked off to a garish hot-sheet motel for a twilight rendezvous. 
I finally dragged myself up and got us a bottle of water. Then, leaning against the rickety headboard, I recounted an abbreviated version of what had happened yesterday after we'd first talked—the theft of my film, and then Lou being assaulted and Sarah taken, apparently willingly, to be brought (I strongly suspected) back here. What I held out on were the details about a certain Colonel Jose Alvino Ramos, my belief that he was behind the crimes and in league with Alex Goddard and stalking me. I was afraid our room was bugged. 
"Morgy, we'll get through this," he said, reaching over to stroke my hair. "If somebody brought her back down here, we'll find her. And I apologize for being such a shit on the phone, about the baby. I'd just had a local lab lose three rolls of high-speed Kodachrome and I was seriously frosted at the world. We can keep trying if you want to." 
“Of course I am.” 
“Walk me through the course of events since I saw you last. It is not foolproof, but I shall tell you if I observe inconsistency.” 
And it would be good for him to have my intel in any case. I took a deep breath and started with Courtney Polk going missing, then described my night with Tresting, finding the office workers, Leena’s abrupt change, and the meeting with Finch and Steve. Rio listened quietly. I shared everything, up to and including Tresting’s and my final conversation. 
“I think that’s why I’m feeling so defensive,” I finished unhappily. “Unless Dawna Polk has been messing me up again. But he was so—he was so patronizing.” And since he had implied I was not only a thoughtless kid but one who went around killing people...“Rio, am I—do you think I’m green? Do I act like it?” 
He seemed to think for a moment. “In some circumstances. You can be impulsive.” 
I wanted to curl up in a corner and disappear from the world. So much for being good at what I did. 
“You are young, you realize,” Rio continued. “I am given to understand that impetuosity is to be forgiven in youth.” 
The tube is supposed to be kept chilly because of the core, of course. Or rather that because without the induced chilliness, the vents that cooled the core would very shortly start to bake, then warp, then ultimately fail to provide safe and adequate heat exchange, which in turn tended to quickly result in things like radioactive contaminants spewing under extremely high pressures into other parts of the ship that don't seem upon initial inspection to be related to this duct in this place at this particular moment in time. 
The engineers  have stressed all of this in the very recent past, over and over again. The engineers said that under normal operating circumstances the exhaust from the core is saturated by the microscopic envireon particles until it all evens out, until there's a nice equilibrium point established that keeps everyone happy and glow free. An elegant system, frightfully complex, not to be messed with except in cases of dire, dire emergency lest ducky circumstances suddenly and catastrophically unduck themselves. 
How the hell was I going to get online? My phone's wifinder was blinking like crazy -- there was wireless all around me, but I didn't have an Xbox and a TV and a ParanoidXbox DVD to boot from. WiFi, WiFi everywhere... 
That's when I spotted them. Two kids, about my age, moving among the crowd at the top of the stairs down into the BART. 
What caught my eye was the way they were moving, kind of clumsy, nudging up against the commuters and the tourists. Each had a hand in his pocket, and whenever they met one another's eye, they snickered. They couldn't have been more obvious jammers, but the crowd was oblivious to them. Being down in that neighborhood, you expect to be dodging homeless people and crazies, so you don't make eye contact, don't look around at all if you can help it. 
I sidled up to one. He seemed really young, but he couldn't have been any younger than me. 
"Hey," I said. "Hey, can you guys come over here for a second?" 
He pretended not to hear me. He looked right through me, the way you would a homeless person. 
“‘Governments of the Industrial World, you weary giants of flesh and steel, I come from Cyberspace, the new home of Mind. On behalf of the future, I ask you of the past to leave us alone. You are not welcome among us. You have no sovereignty where we gather. 
“‘We have no elected government, nor are we likely to have one, so I address you with no greater authority than that with which liberty itself always speaks. I declare the global social space we are building to be naturally independent of the tyrannies you seek to impose on us. You have no moral right to rule us nor do you possess any methods of enforcement we have true reason to fear. 
“‘Governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed. You have neither solicited nor received ours. We did not invite you. You do not know us, nor do you know our world. Cyberspace does not lie within your borders. Do not think that you can build it, as though it were a public construction project. You cannot. It is an act of nature and it grows itself through our collective actions.’ 
I said, "But they taught me in Basic that you started File-O-Gator with just one truck and a shredder! And that you shrewdly parlayed your meager holdings into a powerful organization by strategically deploying your human resources!" 
He laughed! "Strategically deploying human resources? I paid the mob to scare the s**t out of the guys driving the other trucks!" 
I thought that the drivers of the other trucks must've been pretty gutless if they let someone scare them away from their appointed responsibilities, but I didn't say so. 
Rhindquist looked at me like he was sorry he'd said what he said. "Oh, I didn't hurt anyone. Just put the fear of God in them. Then I picked up their routes, borrowed some cash, bought some more trucks, and the rest is history. I just sort of stumbled along with it, best as I could. 
"Sometimes, I wonder how it all happened. One minute, you're shredding papers in Toronto, the next, you're buying the place! I can't see that I was a whole lot smarter than any of the other guys who were doing the same thing. . . I did design the uniforms, though. They were pretty sharp -- nicer than the potato-sacks you guys wear these days." 
“You’re here until when?” 
“Tomorrow,” he said, “first thing.” 
“First thing tomorrow. Come and see a movie tonight,” she said. 
He looked at her and cocked his head. She wasn’t beautiful, she knew, but sometimes men looked at her that way. Something about what she’d done, they could see it. 
“I’d like that very much,” he said. 
She played back a little audio as they walked together, for a terrible silence descended on them as they walked, awkward and oppressive. 
Would you have turned us in if we didn’t help you? 
No one would have believed me anyway. 
“Valentine?” 
“Yes, Withnail?” 
“Thank you,” he said. “For the food. And the kiss. It was my very first.” 
“Mine too.” 
“The finest one, too.” 
She snorted and punched him in the shoulder. 
“Shut up, Withnail,” she said. 
“Yes, Comrade Hero,” he said. 
She let him kiss her, but only once. 
That night, anyway. 
My mind buzzed. I’d contacted Anton a little over five hours ago—the traffic going into the city had held us up for a good chunk of time, but then I’d headed straight here. Five hours. Ample time to set this up, if someone had caught onto Anton’s search. If that someone happened to be motivated enough. 
I tried to tell myself Anton’s work had encompassed a multitude of other projects, any of which might have generated enemies. Whoever had targeted him had overcompensated like fuck to take all of his data and information with him, but even so, a case from months or years ago might have provoked this. Some old client with a grudge. This didn’t have to be because of what I’d brought him. 
Did I really believe that? 
The platitudes curdled in my head. 
Jesus Christ. This was supposed to be an easy job. Rescue the kid, get her out of the country, be home in time for dinner. 
Nobody should have died on this one, least of all two people sitting at a computer looking things up for me. 
My grip tightened on the steering wheel until my fingers hurt. 
"Just trying to be helpful." He glared at me, then seemed to dismiss my presence. I disappeared from his radar as though lifted away by an alien spacecraft, and he turned back to David. "You know, Dave, me and you've kinda drifted apart lately. Old friends oughtn'ta do that. We ought to keep more in touch. I think we get along okay." 
In other words, get this pushy broad out of my face. 
"It's just business, Nicky," David said, trying to conjure an empty smile. "Business and pleasure don't always mix." 
Yes! David, tell the creep to leave us alone. Tell him. 
"Doing business with me ain't a pleasure?" Nicky Russo asked, hurt filling his voice. He'd brought out a large Havana and was rolling it in between his thumb and forefinger. "I figured we was best friends. Paisans ." 
"We're not not friends, Nicky. We've just got different goals in life. You know how it is." 
I worked my way around behind his desk and glanced out the window. The lingering day was beginning to cloud over, a perfect match for my state of mind. After this I had a late appointment with Dr. Hannah Klein. I feared she was going to end my baby hopes. 
Rodriguez nods, tries to look suitably abashed. "I understand." 
Shue gives him a good-natured slap on the shoulder. "If it makes you feel any better, I saw Fred Whiston just...  loaded, absolutely gregarious-the same Fred as always. If there had been something like you describe, do you really think he'd let himself be spotted in public following the same old routine? The Whistons are very sensitive to public perceptions." 
"Okay, then." 
Shue gives him another convivial wink. "Besides, Frederick is a pansy. Who wants to talk about him? You want to talk intimately about a Whiston scion, my friend, let's talk about Emma. Mercy. Did you get a chance to download the tabloid pics they nabbed of her in the shower? I mean, I know they were digitally touched and cheesy as all hell, but I would pay good money to know who the model behind the headshot was. " He laughs. "Man, I tell you, it's probably a good thing for her that the family has been shunted to the side. If she was anything but a frontier celebrity, she wouldn't be able to turn around without bumping into stalkers." 
But Arthur hadn’t thought I’d be willing to jump in, either. He’d probably only forced himself to call me because he was willing to go to hell and back for this woman. To try everything. 
Even me. 
“What is it with him and Halliday, anyway?” I groused. 
“What do you mean?” asked Checker. “He’d do the same for you, or me, or Pilar, or—or anyone else close to him. You know that.” 
I sincerely doubted the part about me. I rubbed my eyes again and reapplied myself to the computer, hating everyone. My head still throbbed. 
Checker stopped typing for a moment and leaned back. “They were best friends since they were about five, okay? Until, uh, a few years ago. They got each other through a lot, as kids. At least from my understanding of it.” 
“Oh, best friends,” I said snidely. “Is that what they’re calling it?” 
“What are you, a thirteen-year-old?” Checker snorted and went back to his keyboard. “I know I’m the last person you expect to say this, but not everything is about sex. Besides, Arthur’s had himself figured out since he was about ten. I’d be very surprised if anything ever happened between them.” 
Grampa was switched off when Sean found him on the ward, which throbbed with a coleslaw of laser-light and videogames and fuck-pix and explosions and car-wrecks and fractals and atrocities. 
Sean remembered visits before the old man was committed, he and his dutiful father visiting the impeccable apartment in the slate house in Kingston, Ontario. Grampa made tea and conversation, both perfectly executed and without soul. It drove Sean's father bugfuck, and he'd inevitably have a displaced tantrum at Sean in the car on the way home. The first time Grampa had switched on in Sean's presence -- it was when Sean was trying out a prototype of Enemies of Art against his father's own As All Right-Thinking People Know -- it had scared Sean stupid. 
Grampa had been in maintenance mode, running through a series of isometric stretching exercises in one corner while Sean and his father had it out. Then, suddenly, Grampa was between them, arguing both sides with machinegun passion and lucidity, running an intellect so furious it appeared to be steam-driven. Sean's tongue died in his mouth. He was made wordless by this vibrant, violent intellect that hid inside Grampa. Grampa and his father had traded extemporaneous barbs until Grampa abruptly switched back off during one of Sean's father's rebuttals, conceding the point in an unconvincing, mechanical tone. Sean's father stalked out of the house and roared out of the driveway then, moving with such speed that if Sean hadn't been right on his heels, he wouldn't have been able to get in the car before his father took off. 
Each concentration of wealth was an efficient machine, meshed in a million ways with the mortal economy. You interacted with the vats when you bought hamburgers, Internet connections, movies, music, books, electronics, games, transportation -- the money left your hands and was sieved through their hoses and tubes, flushed back out into the world where other mortals would touch it. 
But there was no easy way to touch the money at its most concentrated, purest form. It was like a theoretical superdense element from the first instant of the universe's creation, money so dense it stopped acting like money; money so dense it changed state when you chipped a piece of it off. 
Leon's predecessors had been shrewd and clever. They had walked the length and breadth of the problem space of providing services and products to a person who was money who was a state who was a vat. Many of the nicer grace-notes in the office came from those failed pitches -- the business with the lights and the air, for example. 
"Hello, Grampa," Sean said. 
Grampa stared at him from dark eyes set in deep, wrinkled nests. Behind them, Sean could almost see the subroutines churning. "Sean," Grampa said. Woodenly, he stood and came around the table, and gave Sean a precise hug and cheek-kiss. Sean didn't bother returning either. 
He put the recorder on the table between them and switched it on. 
Grampa was a moderately wealthy man. He'd achieved much of that wealth prior to his retirement, working as a machinist on really delicate, tricky stuff. The family assumed that he did this work switched off, letting the subroutines run the stultifying repetitions, but in his prelim research, Sean had talked to one of Grampa's co-workers, who said that Grampa had stayed switched on more often than not. Grampa had acquired the rest of the wealth shortly before Sean's father had sent him south, to the Home. The years-old class action suit brought by the guilty, horrified families of accidental zombies had finally ended with a settlement, and all the Survivors became instant millionaires in trust. 
He hopped in place. “Valentine! You remembered!” 
She put her hand to her breast and staggered back dramatically, hamming it up. He was still very handsome, and she’d never forgotten her first kiss. 
“What the hell are you doing here?” 
“I have a layover,” he said. “Tokyo tomorrow. But I wanted to stop and see the place—” 
“Remember the dead?” she said. He had been the enemy, after all. How many of her countrymen had he shot? 
“Remember,” he said. “Remember everything.” 
How many of his comrades had died on the day the death rained from the sky? Surely they had died in great number on that day. 
The woods were full of her dead. Mata was there. And there was the movie tonight. She touched the medal on her lapel. He had no medal. The soldiers who’d persecuted the siege received no medals. 
“You’re here until when?” 
“Tomorrow,” he said, “first thing.” 
“First thing tomorrow. Come and see a movie tonight,” she said. 
He looked at her and cocked his head. She wasn’t beautiful, she knew, but sometimes men looked at her that way. Something about what she’d done, they could see it. 
When she’d asked him to trust her, he had. 
Of course, he’d known her since they were five years old. Did I really merit that kind of loyalty? He and Checker had already chosen Halliday over me. 
That’s not fair, I chastised myself. You know that’s not fair. It had been Halliday’s work, Halliday’s friend, Halliday’s case. 
I thought about Arthur driving to pick me up injured out of the desert dust, a year ago, after I’d gotten someone killed. I thought about standing outside Checker’s house, in the rain, and I thought about the fact that he’d let me in. 
Faith, Halliday had said. 
Faith. 
I picked up the phone and dialed Checker again. His phone was more secure and the voicemail wouldn’t cut me off. “I need help,” I whispered. I tried to gather my thoughts, tried to figure out what to say. “I did something stupid, and I need...I need help.” 
I talked for several minutes after that, stumbling through the thickness in my throat. 
Then I hung up the phone, took a breath, and got in the car. I had one more stop to make before going after Martinez, before I hustled her back into hiding and then willingly put myself in the hands of a morally bankrupt crime lord. 
hours ago. 
<ferret> What's the news, Shad? 
<callmecheese> Shad! Phone home. We're wor- ried . 
<Gargle> 'Sup, Shad? You have any luck with that lawyer? 
<Falstaff> Tap tap tap - is this thing on? 
<ferret> Don't leave your family hanging. 
<callmecheese> Come on. Shad. The suspense is killing us. 
I typed a line. 
<Shad> Hey guys, I'm back. Palaver? 
They pinged in and in a few seconds I could start typing again. 
<Shad> Got a lawyer. 
<ferret> Great ! 
<callmecheese> Huzzah! 
<DoDec> Which one did you get? ...  Plus she recruited a whole legal team . 
<ferret> Awesome! ...  that's where she lives. 
<DoDec> We should start a defense fund. 
We're talking big bucks. Even if the lawyer's pro bono, there's filing fees and shit. Adds up fast. 
<Kadabra> Paypal okay? DM me your deets and we'll get it rolling. 
<ferret> Unless there's one already started. 
<Gargle> That's what I wondered. I found this site. Are you working with them, Shad? 
The link took me to a website for something called “The Sol- idarity Committee for the Minneapolis Nine.” It looked a lot like sites used by other local activist groups. I did a Whois search and saw that the site owner’s identity was public - address, phone number, the works. Another quick search told me he was a kid who had become a full-time organizer, helping progressive causes around the Twin Cities by building websites and running social media campaigns. But duh, he wasn’t even smart enough to use a proxy domain. 
The words circled, chanting, a repeating loop until they lost all meaning and became nonsense syllables, a never-ending, mocking litany. 
Eight words. Do not try to remember under any circumstances. 
Eight ugly, meaningless, mind-fucking words. 
The slashing, slanting handwriting had been undoubtedly and mathematically my own, with my signature underneath. I didn’t remember writing the note. Didn’t remember hiding it. Didn’t remember why I would have wanted to. 
Do not try to remember under any circumstances. 
I only knew that my brain had been right not to want to remember. I had been right, and here was the proof. 
I didn’t text Checker to tell him I was coming. Instead, I busted into the Hole hard enough that the door banged against the computer towers behind it, the metal bruising the paint. 
“Cas,” Checker said coldly, sitting back from his keyboard and crossing his arms, a set look on his face. 
For some reason I hadn’t expected him to be upset with me. I’d expected him still to be in irritating pleading mode about looking into my past, worried and pestering. I was the one with the righteous anger about how he dared violate my privacy and my life; he was the one ignoring my feelings—right? 
Again, the rustle of fabric. "No." 
She put her hand on the door's crashbar, made ready to pass into the next chamber. 
"I'm starting to freak out a little here, Ria," he said. "He doesn't hunt humans or something?" 
"No," and he didn't need to see her face, he could see the smile. 
"Or need an organ? I don't think I have a rare blood-type, and I should tell you that mine have been indifferently cared for --" 
"Leon," she said, "if Viktor needed an organ, we'd make one right here. Print it out in about forty hours, pristine and virgin." 
"So you're saying I'm not going to be harvested or hunted, then?" 
"It's a very low probability outcome," she said, and pushed the crashbar. 
It was darker in this room, a mellow, candlelit sort of light, and there was a rhythmic vibration coming up through the floor, a whoosh whoosh. 
Ria said, "It's his breath. The filtration systems are down there." She pointed a toe at the outline of a service hatch set into the floor. "Circulatory system overhead," she said, and he craned his neck up at the grate covering the ceiling, the troughs filled with neatly bundled tubes. 
The roller coaster of emotion I’d been on the past few days rippled through me like an echo, then drained away, leaving me empty. 
If she’d never had the proof, there was a god somewhere up there laughing at us. 
Rita Martinez died thirteen days later, without ever waking up. I went to the funeral because I had a feeling Arthur expected me to. I filed it in the category of trying to be a better person. 
Professor Halliday spoke. I didn’t pay attention to what she said; I let the words sail over me and echo against the walls of the church. 
I recognized a few Feds at the service, and numbly wondered if they were there to make sure no one gave anything away. The ever-helpful Agent Jones approached me afterward, out on the lawn under a copse of decorative trees. 
“Ms. Russell,” she said, nodding at me. She had a paper cup of punch in her hand. There were refreshments inside, which I’d passed on in favor of the flask in my pocket and the cocktail of narcotics I was still on. 
“Agent Jones,” I answered. I didn’t know or care what she wanted. I felt detached from everything. Numb. 
Benson settled down behind his desk and tapped his class-ring nervously on his blotter. He did this whenever things started to go bad for him. Poker players call stuff like this a "tell" -- something that let you know what was going on in the other guy's head. I knew Benson's tells backwards and forwards. 
"Marcus, I hope you realize how serious this is." 
"I will just as soon as you explain what this is, sir." I always say "sir" to authority figures when I'm messing with them. It's my own tell. 
He shook his head at me and looked down, another tell. Any second now, he was going to start shouting at me. "Listen, kiddo! It's time you came to grips with the fact that we know about what you've been doing, and that we're not going to be lenient about it. You're going to be lucky if you're not expelled before this meeting is through. Do you want to graduate?" 
"Mr Benson, you still haven't explained what the problem is --" 
He slammed his hand down on the desk and then pointed his finger at me. "The problem , Mr Yallow, is that you've been engaged in criminal conspiracy to subvert this school's security system, and you have supplied security countermeasures to your fellow students. You know that we expelled Graciella Uriarte last week for using one of your devices." Uriarte had gotten a bad rap. She'd bought a radio-jammer from a head-shop near the 16th Street BART station and it had set off the countermeasures in the school hallway. Not my doing, but I felt for her. 
“Dr. Kingsley,” said Finch, very tensely, “May I ask if you’ve had any visitors today?” 
Her brow furrowed. “Um...two police officers; they said they’d had another threat. I’ve had a lot of threats since this started,” she explained to nobody. “It’s one of the reasons...” 
Tresting crossed his arms. “Doc, the first time you got a death threat you called and asked me what kind of shotgun to buy, and then told me to bug your phone and said you hoped they’d keep calling so they’d give something away.” 
“You see? This is why I have to stop this,” she pleaded. “It’s madness. It’s been like an addiction. I can’t—” 
“Please,” interrupted Finch. “Did you have any other visitors today?” 
“Well, you, I suppose.” She looked at Tresting as if asking for help, but his eyes were pinched, and he said nothing. She waved her hands weakly. “That’s it. No one else.” 
“Dr. Kingsley,” said Finch. “This is very important. Can you recount your entire day for me?” 
Getting no help from Tresting, Kingsley looked at me. I gave her a slight shrug. It was unnerving that Finch seemed to have taken over completely while still being at gunpoint, but I very much wanted to see where this was going. “My whole day?” she finally repeated. 
"Honey, wake up. Please." I pulled his feet out of the bed and slid them around and onto the linoleum floor. I didn't know what kind of sedative he'd been injected with, but if I had to shake him out of it, fine. This was no time for half measures. "Come on ." 
I pulled him to his feet and dragged him across the floor to the slatted window at the rear of the room, where the predawn sounds of the forest beyond filled the air, mingled with the rain. What I needed was a...  breeze would have to do. 
It took ten minutes of working on him, with me barely able to hold a grasp on my own reality, but then his eyelids began to flutter. I kept talking to him, pleading and badger­ing, and when he finally started coming around, I began to walk him back and forth in front of the window. 
Steve, I thought, I'm so sorry, so terribly sorry I dragged you into this. 
"Can I please lie down?" His timorous voice startled me, but it gave me a burst of hope. Come on . 
"Baby, just walk a little more. Try to get the blood flowing and flush the damned chemicals out of your brain." 
"No," Ria said. "No. He's here. We are inside him. Remember that, Leon. He isn't the stuff in the vat there. In some sense you've been in Viktor's body since you got off the chopper. His sensor array network stretches out as far as the heliport, like the tips of the hairs on your neck, they feel the breezes that blow in his vicinity. Now you've tunneled inside him, and you're right here, in his heart or his liver." 
"Or his brain." 
A voice, then, from everywhere, warm and good-humored. "The brain is overrated." Leon looked at Ria and she rolled her eyes eloquently behind her faceplate. 
"Tuned sound," she said. "A party trick. Viktor --" 
"Wait," Viktor said. "Wait. The brain, this is important, the brain is so overrated. The ancient Egyptians thought it was used to cool the blood, you know that?" He chortled, a sound that felt to Leon as though it began just above his groin and rose up through his torso, a very pleasant and very invasive sensation. "The heart, they thought, the heart was the place where the me lived. I used to wonder about that. Wouldn't they think that the thing between the organs of hearing, the thing behind the organs of seeing, that must be the me? But that's just the brain doing one of its little stupid games, backfilling the explanation. We think the brain is the obvious seat of the me because the brain already knows that it is the seat, and can't conceive of anything else. When the brain thought it lived in your chest, it was perfectly happy to rationalize that too -- Of course it's in the chest, you feel your sorrow and your joy there, your satiety and your hunger... The brain, pffft, the brain!" 
"You're on," she said, and they hugged again, fiercely. 
Once he was gone, she permitted herself the briefest of tears. She knew that she was right and that she was going to make a fool out of him, but she didn't want to think of that right then. She felt the place behind her ear where he'd kissed her before going home and looked around her office, five years of her life in thirty banker's boxes ready to be shipped across the country tomorrow, according to a route that would be governed from moment to moment by invisible, notional, ridiculous insects. 
She ate more taco bell. The logo was a pretty one, really, and now that it had been adopted by every mom-and-pop burrito joint in the world, they'd really levelled the playing field. She thought about the old Taco Bell mystery-meat and plastic cheese and took a bite of the ground beef and sharp Monterey Jack that had come from her favorite little place on the corner, and permitted herself to believe, for a second, anyway, that she'd made that possible. 
Meantime, I was headed for Darryl's father's place. I'd never really felt comfortable around the old man, who'd been a Navy radio operator and ran his household like a tight ship. He'd taught Darryl Morse code when he was a kid, which I'd always thought was cool. It was one of the ways I knew that I could trust Zeb's letter. But for every cool thing like Morse code, Darryl's father had some crazy military discipline that seemed to be for its own sake, like insisting on hospital corners on the beds and shaving twice a day. It drove Darryl up the wall. 
Darryl's mother hadn't liked it much either, and had taken off back to her family in Minnesota when Darryl was ten -- Darryl spent his summers and Christmases there. 
I was sitting in the back of the car, and I could see the back of Dad's head as he drove. The muscles in his neck were tense and kept jumping around as he ground his jaws. 
Mom kept her hand on his arm, but no one was around to comfort me. If only I could call Ange. Or Jolu. Or Van. Maybe I would when the day was done. 
Then we stopped and it was quiet for a moment. “I don’t want to get you in trouble,” I said, feeling sick again. 
“Don’t say that. This is not your fault.” She had that stern teacher look again. “I never want you to feel responsible for being bullied, whether it’s school officials or police or anybody. They’re abusing their power when they shift that burden onto a kid.” 
“Well, yeah, but they’re kind of doing their job,” I pointed out. 
“That’s no excuse. Nazi functionaries tried that one out at Nuremburg.” 
“Wow, we already hit Godwin’s Law,” I said. She looked at me, puzzled. “It’s this thing, when somebody in an argument drags Nazis into it? It’s kind of over, because usually it’s a ridiculous comparison.” 
“Ah. Recluctio ad Hitlerum.” 
“That’s awesome. How do you spell that?” 
She spelled it. “It’s a riff on a common fallacy, reduction ad absurdum. You take a proposition to its extreme to show how it must be wrong.” 
“Only this time it’s not wrong, because you’re not really saying those two cops acted like Nazis. You’re saying people are respon- sible for their actions even if they’re following orders, which God- win would agree with. That’s the guy who came up with the law originally.” 
"And you believe this, Ray? You believe the things Jack Holcomb said?" 
This is a vital question, one Ray has never been able to answer for himself, let alone to convince someone else. It's too radical, too fundamentally different from everything he has ever been taught to accept as true. 
Normal men relegate shed and their complementary mythology to mental files marked "Creepy, but Irrelevant" and/or "Useless Paranormal Trivia". Preferably, mental files that are locked, buried, only accessed on impenetrably dark nights hemmed in by a thick pine forest when they're clustered around a roaring campfire with a troop of too-big-for-their-knickers Boy Scouts. 
All this, of course, leads him roundabout to musty reflections on Jack Holcomb himself. Jack Holcomb the virgin LT, who knew nothing about actual combat, who talked deeply and intelligently of subjects arcane and occult, who for two weeks in the desert kept one hand over the space between his neck and chest like there was something dangling there and the other on the butt of a Russoturk assault rifle which he field stripped with expert care every morning so it wouldn't clog with sand. Holcomb wasn't a normal LT, despite how Ray wanted to characterize him. He didn't have the earnest idiocy of a puppy with poor bladder control. Not earnest at all, but rather intense in a vaguely scary way. He was squared away, at least theoretically, as close to being squared away as you could get without having been in a combat situation. He didn't freak out in hostile territory. He didn't cling to Ray like he couldn't take care of himself. He'd accepted advice and guidance, but done his fair share of sentry duty while Ray slept and offered salient suggestions like he had a map of the terrain wedged behind his eyeballs. Holcomb had been a soldier in the field, which was high praise in those days, and a large part of the reason they'd made it back to camp alive. 
It was an ancient worm, one that every box should have been patched against years before. No mind. He had the client for it, and he used it to create a root account for himself on the box, which he then logged into, and took a look around. 
There was one other user logged in, “scaredy,” and he checked the proccess monitor and saw that scaredy had spawned all the hundreds of processes that were probing him and plenty of other boxen. 
He expected bluster, guilt, denial. He was surprised. 
› Christ I thought I was the last one alive. I’m on the fourth floor. I think there’s a bioweapon attack outside. I don’t want to leave the clean room. 
Felix whooshed out a breath. 
Felix’s stomach did a slow somersault as he thought about 2.0. 
“Felix, I think I need to go outside,” Van said. He was moving toward the airlock door. Felix dropped his keyboard and struggled to his feet and ran headlong to Van, tackling him before he reached the door. 
“Van,” he said, looking into his friend’s glazed, unfocused eyes. “Look at me, Van.” 
She was raccoon-eyed and slumped at her low table, her beautiful yoga posture deteriorated to a kind of limp slouch. I hated having to make her day even worse. 
"Of course," she said, but her eyes said, Not more, not more, please not more bad news . 
"I want you to consider something you have left out of your figuring." She rolled her eyes. I realized I was speaking like an Old Testament prophet and tried to refactor my planned monologue in real-time. "OK, let me start over. I think you've missed something important. BIGMAC has shown that he can get out of our network any time he wants. He's also crippled our ability to do anything about this. And he knows we plan to kill him --" She opened her mouth to object. "OK, he -- it -- knows we're going to switch it off. So he -- it, crap, I'm just going to say 'he' and 'him,' sorry -- so he has nothing to lose ." 
I explained what he'd told me about the Rollover and about his promise and threat. 
"And he's right. He is fine and useful. But he's crazy and rogue and we can't control him. He's boxed you in. He's boxed me in." I swallowed. There was something else, but I couldn't bring myself to say it. 
Nothing. 
He tried again. Still nothing. I didn’t hear even a rustle of movement from inside. 
I mimed kicking in the door. I’m excellent at kicking in doors. Tresting, however, held up a hand to stop me and pulled out a set of lockpicks. His way was less conspicuous, I’d give him that. 
I stayed ready in case the occupants of the office could hear us and were quietly preparing. Tresting picked the lock with astonishing speed, almost as if he were inserting a key instead of some squiggly pieces of metal, and raised his eyes to nod at me. I nodded back, and he twisted the handle and pushed the door open. 
My gun leapt into my hand, but I had nothing to aim it at. We stared numbly. 
Someone who looked like she’d played the role of receptionist was sprawled just inside the door, her throat slit so deeply she was almost decapitated. Blood saturated the carpet in a massive, soggy pool around her. 
Tresting had his weapon out, too, and we stepped into the room, covering every angle and carefully avoiding the soaked carpeting. Tresting elbowed the door shut behind him, and we crept into the office suite. 
"Just the right age -- Al Qaeda loves recruiting impressionable, idealistic kids. We googled you, you know. You've posted a lot of very ugly stuff on the public Internet." 
"I would like to speak to an attorney," I said. 
Severe haircut lady looked at me like I was a bug. "You're under the mistaken impression that you've been picked up by the police for a crime. You need to get past that. You are being detained as a potential enemy combatant by the government of the United States. If I were you, I'd be thinking very hard about how to convince us that you are not an enemy combatant. Very hard. Because there are dark holes that enemy combatants can disappear into, very dark deep holes, holes where you can just vanish. Forever. Are you listening to me young man? I want you to unlock this phone and then decrypt the files in its memory. I want you to account for yourself: why were you out on the street? What do you know about the attack on this city?" 
"I'm not going to unlock my phone for you," I said, indignant. My phone's memory had all kinds of private stuff on it: photos, emails, little hacks and mods I'd installed. "That's private stuff." 
“Felix, I think I need to go outside,” Van said. He was moving toward the airlock door. Felix dropped his keyboard and struggled to his feet and ran headlong to Van, tackling him before he reached the door. 
“Van,” he said, looking into his friend’s glazed, unfocused eyes. “Look at me, Van.” 
“I need to go,” Van said. “I need to get home and feed the cats.” 
“There’s something out there, something fast-acting and lethal. Maybe it will blow away with the wind. Maybe it’s already gone. But we’re going to sit here until we know for sure or until we have no choice. Sit down, Van. Sit.” 
“I’m cold, Felix.” 
It was freezing. Felix’s arms were broken out in gooseflesh and his feet felt like blocks of ice. 
“Sit against the servers, by the vents. Get the exhaust heat.” He found a rack and nestled up against it.” 
No one typed anything for quite some time then. 
Felix had to use the Mountain Dew bottle twice. Then Van used it again. Felix tried calling Kelly again. The Metro Police site was down. 
"Honey, you sitting down?" I said. 
"I'm lying down. You wouldn't believe my day." 
"You 're not going to believe what I just heard from the pharmacist at the corner. Remember I told you I've been feeling strange, and some things were a little behind sched­ule? Well, guess what. We're about to find out something. We can't be together, but we can share it over a satellite." 
"You mean . . ." 
"I'm doing the test right now. You know, you take the stick out of the glass holder and if it's turned pink. . . ." 
He was speechless for a long moment. Finally he just said, "Wow." 
I checked the clock again, then reached for the test tube. This, I realized, is the most incredible moment in any woman's life. Is your world going to go on being the same, or is it never, ever going to be the same again? 
When I pulled out the stick, it was a bright, beautiful pink. 
"Steve. I love you. It's—" 
"Max." He didn't realize it, but his voice had just gone up an octave. 
"What?" 
"That's my dad's middle name. I want to name him Max. It's an old family tradition." 
I needn’t have bothered. Cabinet after cabinet revealed rows of hanging file folders, telling me some paper trail had been here, but every one of them swung empty—even the paper tabs labeling the folders had been pulled. The desk drawers mocked me with more of the same. I tried the computers next—when the first one refused to start, I crawled around to the back to find the hard drive missing, the connectors still dangling. I took the time to check around the back of every computer in the place, but they were all gutted. The private offices showed much the same story except sans corpses; apparently everyone important had been in the conference room. 
Bits of paper from a shredder littered the floor here and there as I moved through the suite. I eventually found the shredder in question, an industrial-strength behemoth, but the bin beneath it had been cleared out. I figured out why when I found the office kitchen. 
A large metal filing cabinet had been turned on its side against the doorway, with plastic garbage bags duct taped across it to create a seal, and the impromptu levee held back a pulpy white goop that drowned the entire kitchenette to the level of my waist. The caustic odor of chemicals assaulted my senses, and I coughed and hugged one arm across my nose, blinking watering eyes. Though the tap was no longer running, rags in the sink drain showed how the place had been so easily flooded, and then some sort of mad chemical mixture had been thrown in along with...shredded paper. 
“Yes.” 
“And you want me to stay out of it.” 
“Yes. Will you?” 
I closed my eyes. I had no leads. Tresting wasn’t talking to me. Courtney was gone. Rio wouldn’t help me. I had no allies, and nothing to follow up on. 
“All right,” I said. 
Rio’s tone when he answered sounded awfully like relief, even though I knew that wasn’t possible. “Thank you, Cas. God bless you.” 
I hung up the phone with Rio and found myself with nothing to do. Giving up on investigating Pithica meant I had zero obligations. I still felt bad about dumping Courtney’s case, but between Dawna masquerading as her sister and Tresting’s evidence that she had killed Reginald Kingsley, it seemed clear she was as hopelessly snarled up in Pithica and its machinations as it was possible to be. Which meant I didn’t feel too bad. 
So I’d go with the obvious decision. I would lie low here for a week or two until the bruises and cuts on my face healed, which would help change my appearance from the composite, and then skip town. I wondered where I’d go; no city seemed more appealing than any other. Chicago? New York? Detroit? Maybe I should leave the country. Mexico was only a short hop away. 
"We never lock anything," she declared, glancing back. "It's one of our rules." 
The hallway was dark, silent, and empty except for the two of us. Still, I felt a tinge of caution as we entered. At some level this was trespassing. 
"Come on," she said, casually flipping a switch on the right-hand wall and causing the overhead fluorescents to blink on. "He's away now, and everybody's in bed. But I'll bet they're still awake in here. It's a perfect time." 
I didn't feel anything was perfect, but I did know I wanted to learn what was behind the door I'd seen when I was leav­ing. It was at the end of the hallway, wide and steel and painted hospital white. And, sure enough, that was exactly where Tara was heading. 
She just kept talking nonstop, in her dreamy, little-girl voice. "We've got to try and make them understand it's okay. That it'll be just for a minute." 
She shoved open the door without knocking, and my ears were greeted by the faint strains of Beethoven's "Moonlight Sonata," one of my favorites. For an instant I was caught up in the music, a poignant moment drawing me in. 
“No, I don’t mind that a bit,” replied Lexy. “I like to be wonderfully nice.” 
There was a moment’s silence. 
“Will you allow me to introduce myself?” said the stranger. “Grey, you know—George Grey—Captain Grey, you know.” 
“Captain of a ship?” asked Lexy, with interest. She thought she would like to talk about ships. 
“Oh, no!” said he, rather shocked. “Army—British army—stationed in India.” 
“I knew you were an Englishman.” 
“Did you really?” said he, as if surprised. “People do seem to know. My first visit to your country—six months’ leave—so I’ve come here to see my sister—Mrs. Quelton. She’s married to an American doctor.” 
Lexy thought there was something almost pathetic in his chivalrous anxiety to explain himself. 
“I’m Alexandra Moran,” she said. 
“Thank you!” said Captain Grey. “Thank you very much, Miss Moran!” 
There was no opportunity for further polite conversation, for the taxi had stopped and the driver came around to the door. 
“Better make a run fer it!” he said. “I’ll take yer bags.” 
Tresting stepped on the brake a trifle harder than he had to, and we jerked to a halt. “You owe me,” he said tightly. I’d forgotten how dangerous his tone could get. It was edging back toward that now. 
“I told you,” I said. I wondered if I had let myself get needled into being ornery, and whether that was wise, but it was too late to second-guess myself now. “I want to see your data. Prove to me that what you told me wasn’t the ravings of some crackpot, and I’ll share what I know.” 
I unbuckled the ridiculous seat belt, collected my saddlebag full of toys, and swung down from the truck. Tresting got out as well, apparently deciding for annoying. He came around the hood to face me. 
“You can find me here.” He flicked a business card at me, probably intending for it to flutter to the pavement, but I caught it out of the air without thinking about it—projectile motion with a nice muddle of air resistance mixed in; please, challenge me. “I think you still need what I got on this. And you owe me. I saved your ass today.” 
“But, Captain Grey, you mustn’t think I expect you to—” 
“It’s not that,” he said. “Only you said you’d let me help you in your little job, and I want to!” He smiled down at her. “So,” he said, “I’ll be back for lunch;” and off he went. 
Lexy went to the window and looked out. She saw Captain Grey striding off up the muddy road, perfectly indifferent to the rain, and curiously elegant, in spite of his wet weather clothes. She was thinking of him with great friendliness and appreciation; but she was not thinking of him in the least as Mrs. Royce imagined she was thinking. 
Mrs. Royce stood in the doorway, watching Lexy watch Captain Grey, smiling and even beaming with benevolence; but she would have been disappointed if she had suspected what was in Lexy’s head. 
“He’s awfully nice,” thought Lexy, “and awfully handsome, and I’m certain that he’s absolutely trustworthy and honorable, but—” 
But somehow he wasn’t to be compared to Mr. Houseman. She knew practically nothing about Mr. Houseman. She had talked with him for five or ten minutes in the park, and his conversation had been entirely about Caroline Enderby. He had shown himself to be quick-tempered and sadly lacking in patience. He had written Lexy a stiff, offended, boyish letter, and then he had disappeared. There was no sensible reason in the world why she should think of him as she did, no reason why she should hope so much to see him again; but she did. 
"By Barbara Stratford, Special to the Bay Guardian" 
The newspaper seller shook his head. "Can you believe that?" he said. "Right here in San Francisco. Man, the government sucks ." 
Theoretically, the Guardian was free, but this guy appeared to have cornered the local market for copies of it. I had a quarter in my hand. I dropped it into...  one. I didn't bother polishing the fingerprints off of it this time. 
"We're told that the world changed forever when the Bay Bridge was blown up by parties unknown. Thousands of our friends and neighbors died on that day. Almost none of them have been recovered; their remains are presumed to be resting in the city's harbor. 
"But an extraordinary story told to this reporter by a young man who was arrested by the DHS minutes after the explosion suggests that our own government has illegally held many of those thought dead on Treasure Island, which had been evacuated and declared off-limits to civilians shortly after the bombing..." 
I sat down on a bench -- the same bench, I noted with a prickly hair-up-the-neck feeling, where we'd rested Darryl after escaping from the BART station -- and read the article all the way through. It took a huge effort not to burst into tears right there. Barbara had found some photos of me and Darryl goofing around together and they ran alongside the text. The photos were maybe a year old, but I looked so much younger in them, like I was 10 or 11. I'd done a lot of growing up in the past couple months. 
“Through the kitchen.” 
“Tell you what. You go through all that.” I flapped my hand at his vinyl collection. “Pick out your top ten albums of all time. 
Then you can tell me what makes them so great, okay? I don’t know much about music. You can educate me.” My voice sounded wobbly, but that was probably okay because I was supposed to be half-drugged by now. 
“Sure.” 
“Back in a sec.” I gave him a flirty wave. I remembered to stumble a little as I headed for the kitchen. Checking to be sure that I was out of his line of sight, I quietly opened the fridge and slipped out a beer. Then I carefully pulled open the drawer I’d seen him close. It was jammed full of prescription bottles. I grabbed as many as I could carry and took them and the beer into the bathroom. After locking myself in, I read the labels: Valium, 
I didn’t know what that was, but it had a warning label that said it would make you too sleepy to operate heavy equipment. I spilled a bunch of pills onto the floor and crushed them to powder with my heel. 
"I ought to be; I've brought up three and a half of 'em," Rebecca responded cheerfully, pulling up the infant Simpson's stockings. 
"I should think you'd be fonder of dolls than you are," said Jane. 
"I do like them, but there's never any change in a doll; it's always the same everlasting old doll, and you have to make believe it's cross or sick, or it loves you, or can't bear you. Babies are more trouble, but nicer." 
Miss Jane stretched out a thin hand with a slender, worn band of gold on the finger, and the baby curled her dimpled fingers round it and held it fast. 
"You wear a ring on your engagement finger, don't you, aunt Jane? Did you ever think about getting married?" 
"Yes, dear, long ago." 
"What happened, aunt Jane?" 
"He died—just before." 
"Oh!" And Rebecca's eyes grew misty. 
"He was a soldier and he died of a gunshot wound, in a hospital, down South." 
"Oh! aunt Jane!" softly. "Away from you?" 
"No, I was with him." 
"Was he young?" 
"Yes; young and brave and handsome, Rebecca; he was Mr. Carter's brother Tom." 
Ms Galvez's smile was wide. 
"Does anyone know what that comes from?" 
A bunch of people chorused, "The Declaration of Independence." 
I nodded. 
"Why did you read that to us, Marcus?" 
"Because it seems to me that the founders of this country said that governments should only last for so long as we believe that they're working for us, and if we stop believing in them, we should overthrow them. That's what it says, right?" 
Charles shook his head. "That was hundreds of years ago!" he said. "Things are different now!" 
"What's different?" 
"Well, for one thing, we don't have a king anymore. They were talking about a government that existed because some old jerk's great-great-great-grandfather believed that God put him in charge and killed everyone who disagreed with him. We have a democratically elected government --" 
"I didn't vote for them," I said. 
"So that gives you the right to blow up a building?" 
"What? Who said anything about blowing up a building? The Yippies and hippies and all those people believed that the government no longer listened to them -- look at the way people who tried to sign up voters in the South were treated! They were beaten up, arrested --" 
She was perched straight-backed and alert but staring at nothing, twiddling her fingers against each other along with the music. The movements were jerky and almost fanciful, like she was a witch incanting over a nonexistent cauldron. 
“Professor,” I said softly. “Remember me?” 
She ignored me. The music swelled, bursting to a climax. 
“I was working with Professor Halliday,” I said. “We discovered what you proved. We know.” 
Cymbals crashed. The violins screamed across the scale. 
“Sonya,” said Martinez. Her voice was a grandmother’s voice, scratchy yet delighted, tired but mischievous. “She was always too smart for her own good, was Sonya. I’m sorry for what I’ve done to her.” 
“We’re not the only ones who know,” I said. Thanks to me. 
Her head bobbed up and down, resigned. “The NSA?” 
“No. None of us told the government; even Dr. Zhang kept you a secret. But the men who had Halliday before—they’re coming. They know you’re here. They—” I swallowed, wondering if or how I should reveal my own part in it. “They don’t really have Halliday again; she’s safe with the Feds. They were just saying that to get you back here.” 
“I’m Alexandra Moran,” she said. 
“Thank you!” said Captain Grey. “Thank you very much, Miss Moran!” 
There was no opportunity for further polite conversation, for the taxi had stopped and the driver came around to the door. 
“Better make a run fer it!” he said. “I’ll take yer bags.” 
So Captain Grey took Lexy’s arm, and they did make a run for it, through the fine, chilly rain, along a garden path and up on a veranda. The door was opened at once. 
“Miss Royce?” asked Captain Grey. 
“Mrs. Royce,” said the other. “Come right in. My, how it does rain!” 
They followed her into a dimly lit hall. She opened a door on the right, and lit the gas in what was obviously the “best parlor”—a dreadful room, stiff and ugly, and smelling of camphor and dampness. Captain Grey remained in the hall to settle with the driver, and Lexy decided to let her share of the reckoning wait for a more auspicious occasion. She went into the parlor with Mrs. Royce. 
“You and your husband just come from the city?” inquired the landlady. 
"So, what's the critical path, Mac?" Lee-Daniel asked. "Who's going to run this circus between tonight and your executive search coming through with an empty suit to sit in the driver's seat?" 
"We thought you'd stay on, LD, help with a smooth transition." 
"Why would I do that?" Lee-Daniel said. 
The Series A and Series B investors watched them like a tennis-match, silent, eyes shining. 
"Why don't you two get us a couple beers, OK?" Mac said to them. They mooched off petulantly. "LD, I hope you'll stay on because you have a significant stake in this company. We don't want to dismantle CogRad, we want to grow it, turn it into something big and important. We need your help still, to make this work. It's your show, we know it. We can't make the transition without you." 
He knew that Mac was blowing smoke, massaging his ego. But he was good at suppressing his ego for the good of his company. The company. Not his company, not anymore. "What's in it for me?" 
Mac made a face and leaned in close, whispering. "Look, they don't want you to stay. I had to fight, hard, to keep you in, even during the transition. I put a lot on the line for you. I know that your job can't just be filled by a warm body, I know that you're the only one who can train your successor. We can make this company really big -- you'll be able to retire on your share in 18 months if we go according to plan. We're going to franchise out, start new busses in...  turn it all into a turnkey solution, something that scales. We'll raise 10 billion on IPO if we raise a cent, you just watch. I've been through this, LD, and I know what a success smells like. This will be a success -- your success -- if you play along. If you don't, well, we could all end up in the shitter. Canada was the last straw for them. We either go on without you or we don't go on at all, do you understand?" 
Sorensen smiles thinly. "Just remember how vital that risk was when the FSA presents your agency with the bill." 
"As the updates come in, I'll probably have to repeat the experiment-in the event that the isotope list changes." 
"I understand, though I'll appreciate a concerted effort to avoid a reprise of today's events." 
"Certainly." 
The captain nods his approval. "We'll arrange another meeting next week, hopefully under circumstances that don't require me to convince my First Mate that I've had to bust your ass yet again. Unless you've got something else to add, that is." 
But Ray is finished, and he says so. Under normal circumstances, he could have expected Sorensen to reciprocate with the latest military intelligence that might have a bearing on his investigation, but Commander Sorensen generally delegated those duties to Becker, who had the freedom of movement to contact Ray in a timely and inconspicuous fashion as the need arose. 
Sorensen climbs out of his chair. "Consider me placated once again, Mr. Marlowe. Please have the courtesy to remember to appear contrite on your way out. " 
“Well, I got two,” he told her. “The second one came yesterday, about this doctor, and the roses, you know.” 
“Mrs. Royce must have posted it!” said Lexy. “I wrote it, but I didn’t mean it to be sent to you unless something happened to me.” 
“Enough has happened to you already!” 
“More things are going to happen,” said she. “Lots more!” 
It suddenly occurred to her that the proper moment had come for withdrawing her hands from Mr. Houseman’s firm grasp. Indeed, she thought the proper moment might already have passed, and a warm color came into her cheeks. 
The young man flushed a little himself. 
“I didn’t mean to call you that,” he said; “but Caroline used to write a lot about you, and she always called you ‘Lexy,’ so I got into the way of thinking of you—like that.” 
“I don’t mind,” Lexy conceded. 
There was a moment’s silence. 
“Charles is my name,” he observed. 
Another silence. 
“Queer, isn’t it?” he said seriously. 
“Here we’ve only seen each other once, and yet somehow it seems to me as if I’d known you for years!” 
The compound was indeed still abandoned, with the musty smell of the long-disused. I spent a day stocking up supplies and making my basement prison as comfortable as possible. And then I reinforced the door and added a new lock. 
By the time I got back to Los Angeles I had an encrypted message from Martinez: Let Sonya go. I will come. 
I noticed she hadn’t said anything about the proof. She probably intended to gain Halliday’s freedom and then never let me pry it out of her. I’d have to find a good way of making her talk. 
I shied away from that thought. Bridges, crossing them, whatever. I could wait and see how this played out first. 
I returned her message, telling her to pick up the burner in Hollywood at ten p.m. the following night. Then I sent a message to the Lancer: Everything is in motion. How soon can you be in Los Angeles? 
Now it was time to booby-trap my own building to catch him in. 
I returned from a full night of making preparations to find two messages waiting for me. 
"Sounds pretty good to me," Leon said. 
"Oh sure," she said. "Sure. A world of eager consumers who know the cost of everything and the value of nothing. Why did evolution endow us with such pathological innumeracy? What's the survival advantage in being led around by the nose by whichever witch-doctor can come up with the best scare-story?" 
"He said that entrepreneurial things -- parenthood, businesses..." 
"Any kind of risk-taking. Sports. No one swings for the stands when he knows that the odds are so much better on a bunt." 
"And Viktor wanted this?" 
She peered at him. "A world of people who understand risk are nearly as easy to lead around by the nose as a world of people who are incapable of understanding risk. The big difference is that the competition is at a massive disadvantage in the latter case, not being as highly evolved as the home team." 
He looked at her, really looked at her for the first time. Saw that she was the face of a monster, the voice of a god. The hand of a massive, unknowable machine that was vying to change the world, remake it to suit its needs. A machine that was good at it . 
"Morgan, I know you're making a film about the realities of the adoption process. We both realize it's not easy." She must have seen something needful in my eyes, because she continued on, adding detail, letting the well-known facts con­vey the bad news. "As you're well aware, finding a young, healthy, American baby nowadays is all but impossible. At the very least it can take years." She was fiddling with some papers on her desk, avoiding my eyes. Then she stubbed out her cigarette in a gesture that seemed intended to gain time. "And even if you're willing to take a baby that's foreign-born, there still can be plenty of heartbreak. That's just how it is." 
"I'd always thought so too," I said. "It's actually the un­derlying motif of my picture. But today I had an incredible experience. I filmed an interview of a single woman, early forties, who just adopted a baby boy. It took less than three months and he's blond and blue-eyed and perfect. I saw him, I held him, and I can assure you he's as American as peach cobbler. The way she tells it, the whole adoption process was a snap. Zero hassles and red tape." 
Crap, crap, crap. I had to do something. 
“Putting it under cop cars came up last night,” I said. “The- oretically. Also, the idea of bombing the precinct house on Lake Street.” Come on, Danny. Help me out. 
“What about a bridge?” Marsh asked Danny. “Or Union Sta- tion? Doable?” 
Nothing. Marsh looked at Jack, who sighed and shifted his feet as if about to give in and leave. 
I leaned over, unzipped the backpack, and reached in. “Is this dynamite?” I pulled out something that looked like a white sausage. I tried to read the lettering on the side, but Danny grabbed it from me. 
“Are you crazy?” 
“There’s a bunch more of those things in here, and things with wires and — ” 
“Leave it alone. Jesus.” Danny set the sausage down carefully. 
“How much of this do you have?” He asked Marsh, man to man. 
“How much do you need?” 
“Depends on the target. Gotta do the calculations.” 
“See?” Jack said to Marsh. “Simon was right. He knows his stuff.” 
“What do you have in mind? The I-35 bridge?” Marsh asked Danny, as if the whole thing had been Danny’s idea. 
"And you let me get pushed aside..." 
She looked solemn. "We figured you wouldn't last long as a button-polisher. Figured you'd want out." 
"And that you'd be able to hire me." 
"Oh, we could have hired you any time. We could have bought Ate. Ate would have given you to us -- remember all that business about making Brautigan into a pair of boots? It applies all around." 
"So you wanted me to... what? Walk in the wilderness first?" 
"Now you're talking in euphemisms. It's catching! Let's walk." 
They gave him a bunny-suit to wear into the heart of Viktor. First he passed through a pair of double-doors, faintly positively pressurized, sterile air that ruffled his hair on the way in. The building was low-slung, nondescript brown brick, no windows. It could have been a water sterilization plant or a dry-goods warehouse. The inside was good tile, warm colors with lots of reds and browns down low, making the walls look like they were the inside of a kiln. The building's interior was hushed, and a pair of alert-looking plainclothes security men watched them very closely as they changed into the bunny suits, loose micropore coveralls with plastic visors. Each one had a small, self-contained air-circ system powered by a wrist canister, and when a security man helpfully twisted the valve open, Leon noted that there were clever jets that managed to defog the visor without drying out his eyeballs. 
“That’s not for your sake. It’s for Wheeze. He — ” 
“Yeah, I know.” She help up her palms in surrender. “Sorry. I just don’t like all this new stuff. Everyone sharing everything. It’s not good.” 
“It’s not the sharing that’s bad,” Bree said, still prickly. “It’s the data mining. It’s the way we give up privacy without realizing what’s going on. There’s nothing wrong with sharing stuff with your friends.” 
“It’s the wrong kind of sharing,” Jane Shandy muttered grumpily. “Just showing off.” 
The food was much better than the gas station snacks in the car (except for the pickled vegetables and mushrooms - they looked like those deformed creatures floating in formaldehyde that scientists have in their labs in old movies, so I didn’t try them). 
Nikko managed to use charm and small talk to get everyone back in a better mood. He even got Jane talking about what she thought the good kind of sharing was. The apples we were eating came from a neighbor’s orchard and had been traded for goat cheese she made. The flour used to bake the bread was from a neighbor who needed someone to watch his chickens when he was in the hospital. Half the furniture had come with the farm- house when Jane moved in, but she only kept what she needed. 
"Maya," he said, sharply, "I'm not going anywhere until you tell me what's going on." 
She glared at him and pushed her hair away from her face. "The googlecleaner lives. I shut it down, walked away from it, after I did you. It was too dangerous to use anymore. But I still get buginizer notifications when new bugs get filed against it, I'm still in B as the project's owner. Someone filed eight bugs against it this week. Someone's used it six times to smear six very specific accounts." 
"Who's using it?" 
"Well, I'll give you a hint. Let me tell you who's been cleaned this week --" She listed six candidates, four Republican and two Democrat, who were all in the running for the primaries. 
"Googlers are blackwashing political candidates?" 
"Not Googlers. This is all coming from offsite. The IP block is registered in DC. And the IPs are all also used by Gmail users. And those Gmail users --" 
"You spied on gmail accounts?" 
"I'm leaving in two minutes, with or without you. You can interrupt me to ask me questions, or you can listen." She gave him another look. Laurie stood in the door of the bedroom, holding the dogs by the collars and looking down at the floor. 
My love. Hearing her say it sends a thrill through him like a jolt of electricity. While he marvels over her, 
Gino arrives with their food. He makes a big show of distributing plates and rhapsodizing over the perfection of the preparation, the presentation, the complexity of the culinary issues. All the sprawling and glorious history of Italy from trilobite dawn to this morning's news has conspired to bring them this moment, these dishes, a palate- shattering explosion of delight. 
But Ray leaves his food untouched. 
"What is it about you, Emma?" 
She stops, fork in hand, says matter-of-factly: "I've told you. I'm perfect. Perfect for you, at least."  "You realize that you know next to nothing about me. " And what you think you know is mostly lies too complex to straighten out without hurting you. 
"I realize that you think I know nothing about you. I also realize that you're wrong, which is a convenient balance of power for my taste." 
Ray holds his breath, lets it go slowly. "I'm wrong? How can that be, when I'm pretty sure I remember most of the things I have told you." 
The slashing, slanting handwriting had been undoubtedly and mathematically my own, with my signature underneath. I didn’t remember writing the note. Didn’t remember hiding it. Didn’t remember why I would have wanted to. 
Do not try to remember under any circumstances. 
I only knew that my brain had been right not to want to remember. I had been right, and here was the proof. 
I didn’t text Checker to tell him I was coming. Instead, I busted into the Hole hard enough that the door banged against the computer towers behind it, the metal bruising the paint. 
“Cas,” Checker said coldly, sitting back from his keyboard and crossing his arms, a set look on his face. 
For some reason I hadn’t expected him to be upset with me. I’d expected him still to be in irritating pleading mode about looking into my past, worried and pestering. I was the one with the righteous anger about how he dared violate my privacy and my life; he was the one ignoring my feelings—right? 
I suddenly remembered how he’d left my place earlier. How stiff he’d sounded. 
"Tara, I don't think taking any of these babies out into the snow is a very hot idea. Not tonight. Maybe in the morn­ing." Stall her, I thought. She's completely out of it. Then I looked at the woman changing the baby. Sure enough, I was right. It was a boy. 
"But I want to." Tara turned crestfallen. "To show them how beautiful—" 
"Well, I don't speak whatever language they're speaking," I said, cutting cut her off. "I'm not even sure I could make it sound reasonable in English. So you'll have to do it without my help." 
Then I turned to the woman who'd been changing the baby. 
"Do you know where this child came from?" Why not take a shot? 
She just stared at me, alarmed, then turned away. Nothing. She clearly wasn't going to tell me anything, even if she could. She and the others were just cheap hired help, prob­ably illegal immigrants without a green card and scared to death for their jobs. They weren't going to be doing an in-depth tell-all to anybody. 
I thought about the situation for a moment, and decided I'd seen what I came to see. This was pay dirt. Alex Goddard was running a full-scale adoption mill, just as Lou had sus­pected. He was collecting beautiful white babies from "overseas or wherever," and selling them here at sixty thousand a pop. 
Several hands shot up. Ms Galvez called on them. Some people pointed out that the reason that the Vietnamese were shooting at Americans is that the Americans had flown to Vietnam and started running around the jungle with guns. Others thought that Charles had a point, that people shouldn't be allowed to do illegal things. 
Everyone had a good debate except Charles, who just shouted at people, interrupting them when they tried to get their points out. Ms Galvez tried to get him to wait for his turn a couple times, but he wasn't having any of it. 
I was looking something up on my SchoolBook, something I knew I'd read. 
I found it. I stood up. Ms Galvez looked expectantly at me. The other people followed her gaze and went quiet. Even Charles looked at me after a while, his big wet eyes burning with hatred for me. 
"I wanted to read something," I said. "It's short. 'Governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed, that whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it, and to institute new government, laying its foundation on such principles, and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness.'" 
“Did you go to an elementary school?” Checker pressed. “High school?” 
I grunted. 
“Your family? Any siblings?” 
I shrugged irritably. “Been too long.” 
“Since what?” 
“Since I’ve seen them, clearly.” 
“Were you very small, then?” 
I didn’t answer. 
“When did you move to LA?” 
“A few years ago. Can we stop now?” 
“From where?” 
“I’ve lived a bunch of places. They all run together after a while.” 
“Like where?” 
“Other cities,” I scoffed. “Who remembers names?” 
“Cas,” said Checker. His voice was choked. “Listen to yourself. You can’t remember.” 
“Stupid stuff,” I agreed. 
“No. Anything. Your memory’s gone.” 
I almost laughed, the emotion edged with brittleness. “No, it isn’t.” Of all the things that were fucking me up in the head right now—that was ridiculous. I’d know if my memory was gone. 
It was Checker’s turn not to say anything. 
“I remember things!” The words tore out of me, almost rising to hysteria, Checker’s thrown gauntlet hanging between us. “I remember plenty of things! It’s perfectly normal for the details to fade. That’s not something wrong with me; that’s normal; that’s—I bet you don’t remember anything from when you were five. See?” 
“Hello, Cas,” he said. 
“Hi, Rio,” I answered. Muzzle velocity, the troopers’ reaction times...all too fast, still too fast. Dammit. 
“Cas, you know what I have to do, don’t you?” 
Rio could take six men, but not if he started out handcuffed and in all their sights. And trapped on the other side of the bars, no matter how we played it I would need a few seconds’ delta before I would be able to escape and help him. If he attacked Dawna or her troops, we would all die. I looked, and did the math, and looked again, but no matter how I jigsawed every equation, I found no window, no opening. 
Impossible. How had this happened? I always had options. Always. I did every equation again, reset my reference frames and did them once more. Nothing. We had no way forward except one. 
Rio had to shoot me. 
Fuck. 
“Cas?” said Rio. 
“Yes,” I said. The word came out choked. “I know.” 
“It would be my preference not to harm you,” Rio said quietly. 
“It’s okay,” I whispered. I kept searching desperately, but the values surrounding us were steadying, reaching a new equilibrium in which everything came up checkmate. Mathematically, we had no other choice. 
"Adele, that was stupid . It was like swimming in a urine sample." 
"Same difference. I like a man who can make up his mind. That's what Ethan's father was like: decisive." 
"You'll like my Dad," Sean said. He drummed his fingers on the wheel, then lowered and raised his window. He whistled tunelessly through his teeth. Adele gave him a considering stare and he stopped, and started in on powers of two in his head. 
"There he is," Sean said, 224 later. 
Sean had barely been in Florida for three days, but it was long enough that his father seemed as pale as freezer-burned ice cream. Sean checked the traffic in his rear-view, then pulled across the waiting area to where his father stood, acing out an irate cabbie for the spot. 
Sean's father glared at the car and started to walk behind it to the taxi. Sean leaned on the horn and his father stooped and stared. His expression was bland and grim and affectless. 
Sean powered down Adele's window. "Dad!" 
"Sean?" his father said. 
Sean popped the locks. "Get in, Dad, I'll give you a ride." 
Dr. Quelton and Captain Grey were playing chess. They sat facing each other at a small table, in a haze of tobacco smoke, silent and intent, as if they had been gods deciding human destinies. Mrs. Quelton lay on her chaise longue , doing nothing at all. If Lexy spoke to her, she answered in a low tone, but cheerfully enough; but she so obviously preferred not to talk that Lexy had taken up a book and vainly attempted to read. 
It was the most wearisome and depressing evening she had ever spent. Her lively and restless spirit had often enough found it dull at the Enderbys’, and at other times and places; but this was different, and infinitely worse. 
To begin with, a sense of guilt lay like lead upon her heart. She hoped and believed that what she had done was right, but she was afraid, terribly afraid, of what might result. She could not keep her eyes off Mrs. Quelton’s face. She watched the doctor’s wife with a dread and anxiety which she felt was ill concealed; and she had a chill suspicion that the doctor was watching her, in turn. 
I should have cared a lot more about getting taken in, but I just didn’t have the energy. 
My hard-faced agent friend had said her name was Jones. I didn’t know whether to suspect that of being an alias or not—she didn’t look like a Jones, but then, would a Fed pick such an obvious fake name? I didn’t suppose it mattered. 
She left me to wait locked in a small room sitting at a metal table. The place lacked the classic one-way glass so popular on television and in police stations, but I was sure hidden eyes were watching from cameras I couldn’t see. I put my head down on the table and tried to sleep, but every time I started to drop off, I jerked awake with the sensation that something large and dark was watching and waiting for me. Fucking unconscious mind. 
I supposed I should have been spending some time figuring out how to escape, but I was too goddamn tired. And besides, with Arthur and Pilar and Halliday and Checker all snarled up in this, I rated the probability of being able to walk anonymously away at something very close to zero. 
Sutro baths are San Francisco's authentic fake Roman ruins. When it opened in 1896, it was the largest indoor bathing house in the world, a huge Victorian glass solarium filled with pools and tubs and even an early water slide. It went downhill by the fifties, and the owners torched it for the insurance in 1966. All that's left is a labyrinth of weathered stone set into the sere cliff-face at Ocean Beach. It looks for all the world like a Roman ruin, crumbled and mysterious, and just beyond them is a set of caves that let out into the sea. In rough tides, the waves rush through the caves and over the ruins -- they've even been known to suck in and drown the occasional tourist. 
Ocean Beach is way out past Golden Gate park, a stark cliff lined with expensive, doomed houses, plunging down to a narrow beach...  surfers. There's a giant white rock that juts out of the shallows off the shore. That's called Seal Rock, and it used to be the place where the sea lions congregated until they were relocated to the more tourist-friendly...  dark, there's hardly anyone out there. It gets very cold, with a salt spray that'll soak you to your bones if you let it. The rocks are sharp and there's broken glass and the occasional junkie needle. 
"It undoes in the back," she whispered into my mouth. I had a boner that could cut glass. I moved my hands around to her back, which was strong and broad, and found the hook with my fingers, which were trembling. I fumbled for a while, thinking of all those jokes about how bad guys are at undoing bras. I was bad at it. Then the hook sprang free. She gasped into my mouth. I slipped my hands around, feeling the wetness of her armpits -- which was sexy and not at all gross for some reason -- and then brushed the sides of her breasts. 
That's when the sirens started. 
They were louder than anything I'd ever heard. A sound like a physical sensation, like something blowing you off your feet. A sound as loud as your ears could process, and then louder. 
"DISPERSE IMMEDIATELY," a voice said, like God rattling in my skull. 
"THIS IS AN ILLEGAL GATHERING. DISPERSE IMMEDIATELY." 
The band had stopped playing. The noise of the crowd across the street changed. It got scared. Angry. 
I heard a click as the PA system of car-speakers and car-batteries in the tennis courts powered up. 
“I’m leaving in five days,” she said. 
“The kind of favor I had in mind from you was the kind of favor that you could perform the day after tomorrow.” 
“And you’d take care of my family?” 
“I would do that,” he said. “I always take care of my assistants’ families. Do we have an agreement?” 
She stuck her hand out and they shook. 
“Eat your dumplings,” he said. “And then we’ll get you some things to take home to your family.” 
Two days after the wizard agreed to take care of Valentine’s family, the fever had become her constant companion, so omnipresent that it she hardly noticed it, though it made her walk like an old woman and she sometimes had trouble focusing her eyes. 
She arose that morning and feasted on brown rolls with hard crusts, small citrus cakes, green beef tea, porridge with currants and blueberry concentrate and...  bun to top it off. 
Trover ate even more than she did, licking up the crumbs. She saw him hide two of the jackfruits under his shirt and nodded satisfaction—he had learned something about surviving, then. 
“So, I kind of have to get going,” I said when I realized we weren’t even talking about Wilson anymore. I stood up and reached for the coat I’d slung onto the couch while I was under the desk getting to know the dust bunnies. I found the stupid hat jammed into my pocket and pulled it on. I wasn’t so embarrassed by it now that I’d met the famous lawyer, whose white hair was falling out of its pins, whose sweater had something...  down the front. 
She looked at her watch. “Goodness, it’s late. I’ll call a cab.” 
“No, I have my bike.” 
“Nonsense. It’s dark outside. It’s freezing.” 
“It’s fine, but Monica’s going to worry if I’m not home when she gets off. So, what happens tomorrow?” 
“Your brother will have a chance to meet with us.” 
“When do we get to see him?” 
“Sorry. Not you. His legal representatives.” 
“He can’t have family members visit?” 
“Unlikely, at this point. We’re making arrangements to rep- resent all of the young people who were arrested, except for the informant, who has his own lawyer. Since he won’t be talking to us we’ll need to do some research on him.” 
Suddenly she turned and buried her face in the pillow. 
“Then I didn’t want you to know!” she sobbed. “Captain Grey—he sat there with me. Lexy! Lexy! I didn’t know there was any one like him in the world! I wanted to stay, then. I thought, if you found out, I’d have to go away—to go home again, or to marry Charles. I’d promised to marry him, Lexy, but I can’t! Not now!” 
“Hush, darling!” said Lexy hastily. 
This was something Captain Grey had no right to hear, but he did hear it. He was still standing outside the door, motionless. 
“He was so kind!” Caroline went on. “And his face—” 
“Never mind that!” Lexy interrupted sternly. “Tell me how you got away.” 
“When he came back, he found George there—I had to call him George.” 
“Yes, I see. Never mind!” 
“George went away, and then—he told me. He said his wife had died a few months ago, and that in her will she’d left some jewel—a ruby—” 
“An emerald,” corrected Lexy. 
“Yes—it was an emerald. She’d left it to her brother, and he—Dr. Quelton—had taken it long ago, and sold it, to get money for his horrible drugs. She never knew that, and he didn’t tell her lawyer that she’d died. I don’t know how he managed, or what he did, but nobody knew. Then there came a letter from her brother, to say that he was coming; and the doctor said—I’ll never forget it: 
Someone went upside my head again. It felt like they used a baton or something -- it was harder than anyone had ever hit me in the head before. My eyes swam and watered and I literally couldn't breathe through the pain. A moment later, I caught my breath, but I didn't say anything. I'd learned my lesson. 
Who were these clowns? They weren't wearing insignia. Maybe they were terrorists! I'd never really believed in terrorists before -- I mean, I knew that in the abstract there were terrorists somewhere in the world, but they didn't really represent any risk to me. There were millions of ways that the world could kill me -- starting with getting run down by a drunk burning...  infinitely more likely and immediate than terrorists. Terrorists killed a lot fewer people than bathroom falls and accidental electrocutions. Worrying about them always struck me as about as useful as worrying about getting hit by lightning. 
Sitting in the back of that Hummer, my head in a hood, my hands lashed behind my back, lurching back and forth while the bruises swelled up on my head, terrorism suddenly felt a lot riskier. 
"What is it about you, Emma?" 
She stops, fork in hand, says matter-of-factly: "I've told you. I'm perfect. Perfect for you, at least."  "You realize that you know next to nothing about me. " And what you think you know is mostly lies too complex to straighten out without hurting you. 
"I realize that you think I know nothing about you. I also realize that you're wrong, which is a convenient balance of power for my taste." 
Ray holds his breath, lets it go slowly. "I'm wrong? How can that be, when I'm pretty sure I remember most of the things I have told you." 
Barring Freddy pulling some corporate strings and hacking into the EED's classified personnel files, there's no way she can know anything else. Even then, he couldn't be certain that an accurate file with his name attached to it even exists. Well, Holcomb suggested one might exist, and Becker had seen a copy of something like his file, but he knows better than to believe anything those sources might have to say about him. 
Emma, however, chooses not to elaborate, and he's afraid to press her. Instead, she says, "Just know that I'm perfect for you. That we're perfect. Nothing else really matters, does it?" 
"Rebecca," she said, raising her head, "before you go in to look at her, do you feel any bitterness over anything she ever said to you?" 
Rebecca's eyes blazed reproach, almost anger, as she said chokingly: "Oh, aunt Jane! Could you believe it of me? I am going in with a heart brimful of gratitude!" 
"She was a good woman, Rebecca; she had a quick temper and a sharp tongue, but she wanted to do right, and she did it as near as she could. She never said so, but I'm sure she was sorry for every hard word she spoke to you; she didn't take 'em back in life, but she acted so 't you'd know her feeling when she was gone." 
"I told her before I left that she'd been the making of me, just as mother says," sobbed Rebecca. 
"She wasn't that," said Jane. "God made you in the first place, and you've done considerable yourself to help Him along; but she gave you the wherewithal to work with, and that ain't to be despised; specially when anybody gives up her own luxuries and pleasures to do it. Now let me tell you something, Rebecca. Your aunt Mirandy 's willed all this to you,—the brick house and buildings and furniture, and the land all round the house, as far 's you can see." 
Still, the crying pissed me off. What right did she have to sob her eyes out for people she’d barely met and seemed to judge from moment one? “For Christ’s sake,” I growled, as I swung the car into a grimy alleyway. “You didn’t even know them.” 
“How can you be so cold?” she murmured tremulously. 
I slammed the car’s transmission into park. “Are you feeling guilty? Is that it?” 
Tears swam in her red-rimmed eyes. “Guilty? Why would I—” Her face contorted in horror. Could someone really fake that? “This was about us? Oh, God—that was only this morning!” 
The thought was exhausting. I wasn’t any good with people, and I definitely wasn’t good at subtlety. I could threaten her, but... 
Courtney rubbed the ends of her sleeves across her face, sniffling. 
She was just a kid. Or near enough. Even I wasn’t willing to go there, at least not yet. 
I picked up the file from Anton and the paper bag of money with stiff hands, and we got out of the car. The alleyway ended at a rusted back door; I led the way up a narrow, dark stairwell that climbed into a dilapidated second-floor loft. The furnishings were basic: mattress in the corner, some boxes with food and water in them, not much else. 
And that's when I found it: a letter from Zeb. 
"It wasn't nice to wake up this morning and find the letter that I thought you would destroy in the pages of the newspaper. Not nice at all. Made me feel -- hunted. 
"But I've come to understand why you did it. I don't know if I can approve of your tactics, but it's easy to see that your motives were sound. 
"If you're reading this, that means that there's a good chance you've gone underground. It's not easy. I've been learning that. I've been learning a lot more. 
"I can help you. I should do that for you. You're doing what you can for me. (Even if you're not doing it with my permission.) 
"Reply if you get this, if you're on the run and alone. Or reply if you're in custody, being run by our friends on Gitmo, looking for a way to make the pain stop. If they've got you, you'll do what they tell you. I know that. I'll take that risk. 
"For you, M1k3y." 
"Wooooah," Liam breathed. "Duuuuude." I wanted to smack him. I turned to say something awful and cutting to him, but he was staring at me with eyes as big as saucers, looking like he wanted to drop to his knees and worship me. 
“No, I don’t mind that a bit,” replied Lexy. “I like to be wonderfully nice.” 
There was a moment’s silence. 
“Will you allow me to introduce myself?” said the stranger. “Grey, you know—George Grey—Captain Grey, you know.” 
“Captain of a ship?” asked Lexy, with interest. She thought she would like to talk about ships. 
“Oh, no!” said he, rather shocked. “Army—British army—stationed in India.” 
“I knew you were an Englishman.” 
“Did you really?” said he, as if surprised. “People do seem to know. My first visit to your country—six months’ leave—so I’ve come here to see my sister—Mrs. Quelton. She’s married to an American doctor.” 
Lexy thought there was something almost pathetic in his chivalrous anxiety to explain himself. 
“I’m Alexandra Moran,” she said. 
“Thank you!” said Captain Grey. “Thank you very much, Miss Moran!” 
There was no opportunity for further polite conversation, for the taxi had stopped and the driver came around to the door. 
“Better make a run fer it!” he said. “I’ll take yer bags.” 
"If she wants to say something, I'll listen." He gave me a strong, absent embrace, his eyes still despondent. "But no way am I gonna start pushing her." 
I edged into the bedroom, unsure if I really should, to say good-bye to Sarah and to give her one last hug. Her eyes were open again and she just stared at me for a second, then whispered a word I couldn't quite make out. It might have sounded like "Babylon," but that made no sense at all. Fi­nally she covered her eyes with her hands and turned away, gone from me, leaving me more alone than I'd ever felt. 
H eading home, finally, I told myself to try to calm down. I was determined to help Sarah get over her trauma, though truthfully I was too tired to really think straight at that mo­ment. So instead I decided to let everything rest for a few hours and try for some distance. In fact, I began imagining myself in a hot bath, gazing at my now-wilting roses. Home Sweet Home. 
Mine was a standard one-bedroom in a building that had been turned into a co-op five years earlier, the owner offering the individual apartments to the tenants. I'd stayed a renter, however, passing up the "low" insider price, $138,000, be­cause I didn't really have the money, and when I did have it someday I would want something bigger. I wished I had more space—a real dining room and a bigger bathroom would do for starters, along with some place for more bookcases. And if a baby should someday miraculously come along . . . 
“No, it wouldn’t, but my head will explode if you keep wasting my time. Do you have any more questions pertaining to some- thing other than prurient interest?” 
“Prur . . . how do you spell that?” 
“Look it up in the dictionary.” She had a killer glare. I wouldn’t want to be facing her in a courtroom. “Zenobia, you need to take care. Your brother has enough problems.” 
“I know.” 
“And you’re aware of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act and its penalties?” I started to speak, but she held up a warning finger. 
“Constrain your answer to a yes or no.” 
“Yes.” 
She studied me for a moment. “Hypothetically, if you were going to help your brother, what would you do? Aside from drag- ging a lawyer out of retirement and getting her to do a lot of work for free.” 
“You actually want to know?“ “Let’s keep this in the realm of hypotheticals. That is, based on a proposed theory rather than actual — “ “I know what the word means.” I also knew that she wanted to find out what I was planning without having to spill the beans if questioned under oath. “What I might do to help my brother is show the world how the FBI tricks people into saying they’re going to do things that they would never do if the FBI hadn’t goaded them into it. How the FBI encourages people to say they’re going to break the law just so they’ll have a chance to arrest them. 
“I’m very smart.” 
Checker’s jaw jutted out, and I thought he was going to argue further, but instead he broke eye contact and stabbed at his computer keys. “Fine. Knock yourself out.” 
The other monitor filled with dense programming code. I scrolled, letting my brain relax into it, my headache finally dissipating as the mathematics rose in ghostly shadows, the edges of the algorithms sharpening and focusing into the barest outlines of a skeleton. The code wasn’t a language I recognized—possibly it was one Checker had invented himself—but the structure was familiar; it filtered through my senses and solidified, the commands looping and interlocking through layer after layer of abstraction, the elegant constructions jigsawing deep into the program. 
Checker was watching me closely. I ignored him and kept scrolling. 
“Well, I’m going to get some sleep,” said Tresting to no one in particular. “You kids have fun.” He meandered over to a couch against one wall of the office and stretched out, sagging to unconsciousness right away. 
"But they let us go, and ferried us over today." I was improvising now. 
"Are you hurt?" Mom said. "Hungry?" 
"Sleepy?" 
"Yeah, a little of all that. Also Dopey, Doc, Sneezy and Bashful." We had a family tradition of Seven Dwarfs jokes. They both smiled a little, but their eyes were still wet. I felt really bad for them. They must have been out of their minds with worry. I was glad for a chance to change the subject. "I'd totally love to eat." 
"I'll order a pizza from Goat Hill," Dad said. 
"No, not that," I said. They both looked at me like I'd sprouted antennae. I normally have a thing about Goat Hill Pizza -- as in, I can normally...  gobbling until it either runs out or I pop. I tried to smile. "I just don't feel like pizza," I said, lamely. "Let's order some curry, OK?" Thank heaven that San Francisco is take-out central. 
Mom went to the drawer of take-out menus (more normalcy, feeling like a drink of water on a dry, sore throat) and riffled through them. 
Once the food was ordered, the questions started again. They'd heard from Van's, Jolu's and Darryl's families (of course) and had tried to report us missing. The police were taking names, but there were so many "displaced persons" that they weren't going to open files on anyone unless they were still missing after seven days. 
I thought about the situation for a moment, and decided I'd seen what I came to see. This was pay dirt. Alex Goddard was running a full-scale adoption mill, just as Lou had sus­pected. He was collecting beautiful white babies from "overseas or wherever," and selling them here at sixty thousand a pop. 
Which went a long way toward explaining why he didn't want Children of Light to be featured in my film. And the Guatemalan colonel who'd just trashed my home was almost certainly in on the operation. Alex Goddard might be a New Age miracle worker rediscovering ancient Native American herbal cures, but he also was running a very efficient money machine. 
Still, the big question kept coming back: Where did he get all the babies? To extract any more information about that from Quetzal Manor, I'd have to break into an office somewhere, and I wasn't quite up to that yet. I didn't have the nerve of Colonel Jose Alvino Ramos. 
"Tell you what, Tara, I think I'm out of here." I was re­turning the Betacam to its bag. Nothing I'd shot was remotely broadcast quality, but I did have proof of what was going on. My "undercover" investigation was making some head­way. 
"That is better," Miss Dearborn answered, "though I cannot think 'going to smash' is a pretty expression for poetry." 
Having been instructed in the use of the indefinite pronoun "one" as giving a refined and elegant touch to literary efforts, Rebecca painstakingly rewrote her composition on solitude, giving it all the benefit of Miss Dearborn's suggestion. 
It would be false to say that one could ever be alone when one has one's lovely thoughts to comfort one. One sits by one's self, it is true, but one thinks; one opens one's favorite book and reads one's favorite story; one speaks to one's aunt or one's brother, fondles one's cat, or looks at one's photograph album. There is one's work also: what a joy it is to one, if one happens to like work. All one's little household tasks keep one from being lonely. Does one ever feel bereft when one picks up one's chips to light one's fire for one's evening meal? Or when one...  would fancy not. 
"It is perfectly dreadful," sighed Rebecca when she read it aloud after school. "Putting in 'one' all the time doesn't make it sound any more like a book, and it looks silly besides." 
"If this was any other city in the world, it would make perfect sense for you to look me up once you got to DC. We're still friends, I still think about you from time to time, but here in DC, you calling me over for a meeting, this kind of meeting, at this time of day, it means you're looking to parley. You want to strike a deal before my bill goes to the committee. I don't know how well you know the Hill, so I don't want to impute any motives to you. But if you took a meeting like this with anyone else, that's what they'd assume." 
Damian's forehead crinkled. 
"No Fretting," she said. Then she smiled a sad smile. "Oh, Fret if you want. You're a big boy." 
He twiddled his thumbs, caught himself at it, and folded his hands in his lap. "Huh," he said. "Well. I did want to talk to you because it's been a while and because we meant a lot to each other. I also wanted to talk to you about the bill, because that's what I'm here to do, at a pretty decent salary. I also wanted to see you because I had an idea that you'd be different here in your native habitat, and well, that's true." 
“Yes!” said Lexy. 
The doctor rose. 
“The solving of mysteries!” he said, with his unpleasant smile. “That makes very interesting fiction!” 
Lexy rose, too. His tone, his manner, exasperated her almost beyond endurance. She felt an ardent desire to contradict everything he said. What is more, she was in no humor to hear mystery stories made light of. She had had enough of that—first Mrs. Enderby pretending there was no mystery, and then Mr. Houseman going off and pretending it was solved, so that she was left alone to do the best she could. Wasn’t she in a mystery story at this very minute, and without a single promising clew to guide her? 
“There are plenty of mysteries that aren’t fiction,” she observed curtly. 
“But they are never solved,” said Dr. Quelton. 
“Never solved?” said Lexy. “But lots of them are! You can read in the newspapers all the time about crimes that—” 
“The mystery of a crime is never solved,” the doctor blandly proceeded. “Never! Let us say, for example, that a murder is committed. The police investigate, they arrest some one. There is a trial, the jury finds that the suspect is guilty, the judge sentences him, and he is executed. Public opinion is satisfied; but as a matter of fact, nothing whatever has been solved. It is all guesswork. Not one living soul, not one member of the jury, not the judge, not the executioner, really knows that the accused man was guilty. They think so—that is all. What you call a ‘solution’ is merely a guess, based upon probabilities.” 
He doesn't know what size she wears and can't make the estimation from looking at her fingers to the shapes in his pocket, so he grabs the whole handful and flings them on the table. Stone rings tinkle across the tabletop, clatter against the dishes. One rolls all the way to the edge against the wall, teeters then falls on its side. 
Emma narrows her eyes at the shotgun pattern of the rings, then sets her fork down. She picks the one nearest to her, where it leans against her dinner plate. Like Rodriguez, she rolls it around between thumb and forefinger, holding it up to the light to examine the silver etching. 
"It's a ring," she says. 
"I want you to wear it." He's breathing hard. Too hard, really. "All the time." 
"You got me a ring?"  "Not that kind of ring. Just a thing. A—" 
"I see you got enough for all your girlfriends." The dreaded raised eyebrow, suggesting he has either made a major relationship blunder or is acting irrationally. Very possibly both. "What does this mean, this writing around the edges?" 
"She says he looks so much like you," Marcelina ex­plained. "You are surely the special one. The new bride." 
I was still speechless, but then I noticed the baby had a little silver jaguar amulet tied around his wrist with a silken string, and on the back—as on Kevin's and Rachel's—were rows of lines and dots. 
It finally dawned on me. They were digits, written in the archaic Maya script. What could they be, maybe his birth­day? No, I realized, that was far too simplistic. This was the original bar code; it was his Baalum "serial number." 
For a long moment it felt as if time had stopped. Sarah, and now me—we'd been lured here to provide the life force for Mayan surrogate mothers. This whole elaborate recrea­tion wasn't about rainforest drugs and research into fertility; it was just a cover to use the bodies of these intensely be­lieving Native Americans. Alex Goddard had perpetrated the greatest systematic exploitation of another race since slavery. The difference was, he'd found a way to get them to give themselves willingly. 
“Quite a bit. People your age take risks because you don’t have the maturity to weigh the long-term consequence. No, don’t inter- rupt me. It’s not an insult, it’s a demonstrable fact. You’re smart, 
Zenobia. You have potential, but it could be derailed if you started life out with a criminal record. I would be remiss if I didn’t make sure you understand the risk you’re taking. Might take. Hypothet- ically.” 
“Yeah? Well, I’m not your responsibility.” 
She fixed me with a stern glare. I thought I was about to get chewed out for backtalk, but instead her voice was suddenly gen- tle. “The law works slowly. You want to rescue your brother right now. I get that. You want him to know that you’ll risk everything for him, because you’re family and it matters. But if you can be a little patient, you don’t have to take the risk. I’m working with some very bright, committed young lawyers who care about this case. It’s going to be an uphill battle, but we’ll do our best for your brother and his friends. That’s a promise.” 
"Unfortunately for you, I'm not that easily frightened." 
"That's what I'm hoping." Immediately, she puts her hand to her face. "God, that makes me sound so mercenary. It's not that bad, Ray, really. I don't need to be rescued."  Ray reaches for her hand, uncovers her eyes. "It's okay." 
A moment later, Gino is there, dark and burly, bona fide Italian, bustling them through wine lists and menu recommendations and pronouncements on the virtues of linguini al sugo di pescatore and Sicilian mostacciolo. He's a whirlwind of jovial service, gregarious high pressure sales, winking too much, slapping shoulders, impressing them with the sense of how deeply insulted he'll be if they don't take each one of his menu selections to heart. 
Once he's gone, Ray says, "At least that explains the reception I received." 
"From Amah, you mean?" 
"Yes. She's afraid I'm going to try to steal you away, and that you're more than willing to be stolen. " 
"And that's not what you want?" 
Ouch. "Too early to call it." 
“Come, now!” he said indulgently. “The faintness has passed. Now you must go up to your room and rest a little before tea.” 
She rose, and to Lexy’s surprise her movements showed no trace of weakness. Then, turning her head, she caught sight of the girl, and her face lighted with pleasure. 
“Miss Moran!” she cried. “How very nice to—” 
“Miss Moran will wait, I’m sure,” the doctor interrupted. “You must rest for half an hour, Muriel.” 
Taking her by the arm, he led her down the room. In the doorway she looked back and smiled at her visitor; and if anything had been needed to steel Lexy’s heart against the doctor, that smile on his wife’s face would have done it—that poor, plaintive little smile. 
Standing there by Mrs. Quelton’s empty chair, she waited for him to return, a cold and terrible anger rising in her. She heard his step in the hall, heavy and deliberate, and presently he reëntered the room and came toward her, his blank, dull eyes fixed upon nothing. She was quite certain that he wanted to put her out of his way, and that he had no scruple whatever as to methods; yet for all her youth and inexperience, her utter loneliness, she felt that she was a match for him. 
Goddard was examining me curiously, but I just stared back and continued. 
"His lower right hand is held up in a kind of benediction, as if to say, 'Find your peace within,' and the lower left points down at his feet, where one foot is planted on the back of that repulsive little dwarf there, the human ego. Crush the ego and be free. The other foot is lifted to signify spiritual freedom." 
"You seem to know the Shiva well." He broke into a grudging smile, as though we'd just met. Chalk up round one as a draw. "I'm glad you came, Ms. James. I'm a great admirer of your work and I especially wanted to provide your orientation personally. It's a genuine pleasure to meet you at last." 
At last? I took his proffered hand and stared. All the ques­tions I'd been brooding over for the past week sort of disap­peared into a memory file somewhere. Instead all I could do was focus in on him. 
Meeting Carly and Paula's miracle worker in the flesh made me recall something Aldous Huxley once observed. He declared that the kind of man, and they are almost always men, who can control others with his mind needs to have certain qualities the rest of us can only envy. Of course he has to be intelligent and have a range of knowledge that can be used to impress people, but most of all, he has to have a will of iron, an unswerving tenacity of purpose, and an un­compromising self-confidence about who he is, what he wants. This means a slightly remote manner, a glittering eye, and a sympathetic gaze that bores in deeply on you one min­ute, then seems off in another realm, focused on infinity, the next. Perhaps most importantly of all, his voice must be that of a Pied Piper, a soft yet penetrating instrument that acts directly on the unconscious of his listeners. 
"You called, I came." He was now shifting from foot to foot. "Guess it finally had to happen. What's the phrase? You can run but you can't hide? Surprise us both and pretend you're happy to see me." 
"Jesus, man, I'm still working on the money, honest to God. But do I get a last cigarette before the firing squad?" 
"Hey, Alan, ease up." Steve was deadpan. "Good to see you again. I mean it. Love that Waikiki shirt, by the way. Never knew you had such progressive taste." 
"This is actually my incognito attire. For secret missions. It's my objective today to look like some cruise-ship jerk." He glanced around nervously. "So how'm I doing?" 
"I'd say your years of training in undercover work have paid off." 
"So bring me up to date." Steve was trying to hide his total contempt. "Why'd you get out of the spook business? Langley couldn't find a 'new mission' for you after the Evil Empire dissolved?" 
"Actually," Steve said cutting him off impatiently, all the while gazing up at the gathering dark clouds as though they were a hovering adversary, "the truth of the matter is, we called you to discuss a favor. A small helping hand." He seemed to be searching for a sales point. "For old times' sake." 
"So they wanted to prove that they shouldn't be treated like terrorists," Charles shouted back, "so they acted like terrorists? So they committed terrorism?" 
I boiled. 
"Oh for Christ's sake. Committed terrorism? They showed that universal surveillance was more dangerous than terrorism. Look at what happened in the park last weekend. Those people were dancing and listening to music. How is that terrorism?" 
The teacher crossed the room and stood before me, looming over me until I shut up. "Marcus, you seem to think that nothing has changed in this country. You need to understand that the bombing of the Bay Bridge changed everything. Thousands of our friends and relatives lie dead at the bottom of the Bay. This is a time for national unity in the face of the violent insult our country has suffered --" 
I stood up. I'd had enough of this "everything has changed" crapola. "National unity? The whole point of America is that we're the country where dissent is welcome. We're a country of dissidents and fighters and university dropouts and free speech people." 
Bree showed me the goats. They had a big pasture to wander in, but they were curious about the new people and were all bunched up by the door into the barn, jostling each other to get the best view. When I stepped into their pasture, they crowded up to check me out and whiffle their soft lips against my palm. 
They tried to eat my coat, too, but they didn’t seem upset when I pushed them away. The sheep were more wary and moved away in a nervous gang when all I did was look at them. 
When we went back to the kitchen, we found Jane Shandy had spread food on the table: crusty bread and crumbly white cheese, 
apples and jars of pickled mushrooms and beets and string beans. 
“This looks great,” Nikko said, adding the jar of shelled nuts to the abundance. 
“I love your chickens, and those goats! They’re so darling!” 
Bree said. 
“Did you take pictures with your phone?” Our host seemed suddenly like the person standing on the porch with a gun. “Post them to Facebook? Did all your ‘friends’ like them?” She waggled her fingers to make scare quotes in the air. 
“Hi, Rio,” I answered. Muzzle velocity, the troopers’ reaction times...all too fast, still too fast. Dammit. 
“Cas, you know what I have to do, don’t you?” 
Rio could take six men, but not if he started out handcuffed and in all their sights. And trapped on the other side of the bars, no matter how we played it I would need a few seconds’ delta before I would be able to escape and help him. If he attacked Dawna or her troops, we would all die. I looked, and did the math, and looked again, but no matter how I jigsawed every equation, I found no window, no opening. 
Impossible. How had this happened? I always had options. Always. I did every equation again, reset my reference frames and did them once more. Nothing. We had no way forward except one. 
Rio had to shoot me. 
Fuck. 
“Cas?” said Rio. 
“Yes,” I said. The word came out choked. “I know.” 
“It would be my preference not to harm you,” Rio said quietly. 
“It’s okay,” I whispered. I kept searching desperately, but the values surrounding us were steadying, reaching a new equilibrium in which everything came up checkmate. Mathematically, we had no other choice. 
I wasn't too worried about getting caught doing this, because I had good crypto on my side. Crypto is cryptography, or "secret writing," and it's been around since Roman times (literally: Augustus Caesar was a big fan and liked to invent his own codes, some of which we use today for scrambling joke punchlines in email). 
Crypto is math. Hard math. I'm not going to try to explain it in detail because I don't have the math to really get my head around it, either -- look it up on Wikipedia if you really want. 
But here's the Cliff's Notes version: Some kinds of mathematical functions are really easy to do in one direction and really hard to do in the other direction. It's easy to multiply two big prime numbers together and make a giant number. It's really, really hard to take any given giant number and figure out which primes multiply together to give you that number. 
That means that if you can come up with a way of scrambling something based on multiplying large primes, unscrambling it without knowing those primes will be hard. Wicked hard. Like, a trillion years of all the computers ever invented working 24/7 won't be able to do it. 
“You all right?” I asked. 
He kept staring. 
“Are. You. Hit?” I enunciated. Is this what they called shock? I wouldn’t have thought Tresting would go in for shock, being an ex-cop and all. 
“That window’s two stories up,” he said. 
“That’s right,” I agreed. “Good job, I guess that’s why they call you a private eye. Now, seriously, are you okay?” 
He touched his right bicep; blood glistened on his fingertips. “Graze. Lucky, I guess.” His eyes flickered over the scene. Four bodies. Broken glass and dirt everywhere. “It had bars on it,” he whispered. 
I’m not going to lie: I like impressing people. Especially people who’ve just walked away from me in the street and told me they never want to speak to me again. 
“Yup,” I said. “I’m just that good.” 
“You’re bleeding,” Tresting managed, once he had found his voice again. 
“So I am,” I said. I have a hyper-awareness of my own body; all the math in the world won’t help me if I can’t match calculation with reality. I can make estimates about other people’s anatomies, but mine I know every detail of at any time, and I knew I’d sustained five shallow cuts on my face, neck, and hands, and that none of them were worth worrying about. “So are you,” I added. 
She was running away—worse than that, she was being driven away; but just at the moment she could see no other course open to her. She could not appeal to Captain Grey while he was in such distracting anxiety about his sister. It would be cruel, and it would be useless. What could he do? If Dr. Quelton did not want her in his house, certainly his brother-in-law could not insist upon her staying. 
“No!” she reflected. “He would only think it was his duty as a gentleman to leave with me, and he would be miserable, not knowing what became of his sister. I’ve got to go, that’s all; but, by jiminy, I’ll come back! And then we’ll see how much more wanton mischief this irresponsible child can manage!” 
There was in her heart a steady flame of anger. Hatred was not natural to her, but her feeling for Dr. Quelton came dangerously near to it. For Caroline’s disappearance, for Mrs. Quelton’s pitiful state, for her own humiliation and suffering, she held him responsible; and she meant to settle that score. 
Blessed Wordsworth! How he makes us understand! And the pearl never heard of him until now! Think of reading Lucy to a class, and when you finish, seeing a fourteen-year-old pair of lips quivering with delight, and a pair of eyes brimming with comprehending tears! 
You poor darling! You, too, know the discouragement of sowing lovely seed in rocky earth, in sand, in water, and (it almost seems sometimes) in mud; knowing that if anything comes up at all it will be some poor starveling plant. Fancy the joy of finding a real mind; of dropping seed in a soil so warm, so fertile, that one knows there are sure to be foliage, blossoms, and fruit all in good time! I wish I were not so impatient and so greedy of results! I am not fit to be a teacher; no one is who is so scornful of stupidity as I am. . . . The pearl writes quaint countrified little verses, doggerel they are; but somehow or other she always contrives to put in one line, one thought, one image, that shows you she is, quite unconsciously to herself, in possession of the secret. . . . Good-by; I'll bring Rebecca home with me some Friday, and let you and mother see her for yourselves. 
A reference to the craft's flight data recorder. There's nothing more pathetic than a pilot covering his ass when asked to break protocol. 
Ray flips his comm to the open channel and informs his men that the drop point is getting fat. He listens as they sound off, one by one. In the background are reassuring military noises: the click of safeties off, the ratchet of rounds being advanced into chambers, the mutter of private "hoo-ah" pep talks. 
Then they're on the ground and the choppers are peeling back to a safe recon position like candy wrappers caught in a stiff breeze. They sprint almost due east, profiles low, clattering like some antique Industrial Revolution manufacturing machine. He's left the comm channel open, and he can hear his men, a Greek chorus of grunts and strong, disciplined exhalations. Their breath surrounds him like a geas of invulnerability. 
Ray drops the visor on his command helmet, obliterating a night of moonlit sand and night shadows. 
Geography becomes a sickly, greenish mottle sliced by gridlines and a peripheral scroll of compass points and tactical information. Just above his blind spot, left edge, a computer simulation tracks his squad of seven as orange, prokaryote blobs ranged around the yellow sliver that's supposed to represent him. He jumps the  display from light enhanced night vision to infrared with a sub-vocalized command. There are no heat signatures outside the ambient glow of the desert bleeding stored sunshine and the pulsating forms of Marines. 
"Not here," she said. "Let's move over there." She pointed across the street at the big white church that gives Mission Dolores Park and the Mission its name. Holding hands, moving quickly, we crossed to the church. It had big pillars in front of it. She put my back up against one of them and pulled my face down to hers again. My hands went quickly and boldly back to her shirt. I slipped them up her front. 
"It undoes in the back," she whispered into my mouth. I had a boner that could cut glass. I moved my hands around to her back, which was strong and broad, and found the hook with my fingers, which were trembling. I fumbled for a while, thinking of all those jokes about how bad guys are at undoing bras. I was bad at it. Then the hook sprang free. She gasped into my mouth. I slipped my hands around, feeling the wetness of her armpits -- which was sexy and not at all gross for some reason -- and then brushed the sides of her breasts. 
That's when the sirens started. 
They were louder than anything I'd ever heard. A sound like a physical sensation, like something blowing you off your feet. A sound as loud as your ears could process, and then louder. 
A reporter held up a hand and said, "General Sutherland, surely you're not saying that these children were terrorist sympathizers for attending a party in a park?" 
"Of course not. But when young people are brought under the influence of our country's enemies, it's easy for them to end up over their heads. Terrorists would love to recruit a fifth column to fight the war on the home front for them. If these were my children, I'd be gravely concerned." 
Another reporter chimed in. "Surely this is just an open air concert, General? They were hardly drilling with rifles." 
The General produced a stack of photos and began to hold them up. "These are pictures that officers took with infra-red cameras before moving in." He held them next to his face and paged through them one at a time. They showed people dancing really rough, some people getting crushed or stepped on. Then they moved into sex stuff by the trees, a girl with three guys, two guys necking together. "There were children as young as ten years old at this event. A deadly cocktail of drugs, propaganda and music resulted in dozens of injuries. It's a wonder there weren't any deaths." 
With the wonderful water round you curled, 
And the wonderful grass upon your breast, 
World, you are beautifully drest!" 
Dull Emma Jane had never seemed to Rebecca so near, so dear, so tried and true; and Rebecca, to Emma Jane's faithful heart, had never been so brilliant, so bewildering, so fascinating, as in this visit together, with its intimacy, its freedom, and the added delights of an exciting business enterprise. 
A gorgeous leaf blew into the wagon. 
"Does color make you sort of dizzy?" asked Rebecca. 
"No," answered Emma Jane after a long pause; "no, it don't; not a mite." 
"Perhaps dizzy isn't just the right word, but it's nearest. I'd like to eat color, and drink it, and sleep in it. If you could be a tree, which one would you choose?" 
Emma Jane had enjoyed considerable experience of this kind, and Rebecca had succeeded in unstopping her ears, ungluing her eyes, and loosening her tongue, so that she could "play the game" after a fashion. 
"I'd rather be an apple-tree in blossom,—that one that blooms pink, by our pig-pen." 
"Let me check the hall. I just want to shut down his lab. Call it . . . call it insurance. Five minutes, and then we'll be out of here." 
It also would be a kind of justice, to even the score for what he'd done to Sarah and to me. 
I leaned Steve back against the wall, then walked slowly across the tile floor to the door and tested it. Surprise, sur­prise, it was locked. I again tried the knob, an old one, then again, but it wouldn't budge, just wiggled slightly. He'd locked us in. 
Now what? 
Then I remembered the time Steve and I were in a similar situation. When we got locked in my room at the Oloffson in Port-au-Prince, he'd just taken his Swiss Army knife and unscrewed the knob, then clicked it open. He'd made it look like a piece of cake, but he had a way of doing that. 
He was barely conscious, so this time I'd have to do it myself. I glanced around at his bag. 
"Is your Swiss still in there?" 
"I think . . ." His mind seemed to be wandering. Then he gave a weak thumbs-up. 
I went over and zipped it open. Be there, I prayed. We really could use a break. 
I told him about Wilson’s housemate and what she had told me. I told him about the creepy way Simon was always touching girls and acting like it was perfectly okay to grab their butts. I told him about the girl who sent me a message about being drugged and raped, though I made it sound like someone I knew, not a client. 
Nobody, not even Nikko, knew about my business and I wanted to keep it that way. As I spoke, Nikko looked away and frowned. I began to think I was losing him, and that made my voice sound bitter and angry, mainly because I was. “So, are you going to need proof or something?” I asked Nikko. “Because you won’t get it from Emily. She’s in jail, and besides, she tried to tell people and nobody believed her. And the other girl I told you about doesn’t want anyone to know.” 
“But . . . Simon? He seems like such a decent guy. Progressive. 
A feminist. Not somebody who would pull this shit on women.” 
Nikko shook his head and I thought he was going to explain to me why I was wrong to jump to conclusions, that maybe there was just some miscommunication. She was drunk, she came on to him, she changed her story after. Think what it would do to Simon’s reputation. It hurt, almost as much as seeing Nikko kiss- ing that purple-haired girl, maybe even more. I held the mug so tight my fingers hurt, ready to set it down and march out - no, 
All right. Get going. 
I gathered the printouts, then headed back through the laboratory, where I took a long, last look at the petri dishes being incubated. Should I just dump them now? But then he'd know for sure that I knew. 
The time would come, and soon. 
As I eased myself back into the fake-stone OR and closed the door, the dawn outside was steeped in forest sounds, clacks and whistles and chirps. That was good, because I needed some stray noise to mask what I was going to do next. Take control. 
I began by feeling along the fake-stone walls to find where the crevices were, the doors that enclosed the medical in­struments. Somewhere, I was sure, there was a cabinet that held a complete set of surgical equipment. 
When I found the first crevice, I gave the wall on either side a push and, sure enough, the panel was spring-loaded. Good. The side on the right of the crevice popped open to reveal the microscope Goddard had used. But nothing else was there. 
I moved on down the wall testing for cabinets, trying to remember what Marcelina had done when Alex Goddard told her to prep the Mayan woman. One after another the panels snapped open till . . . yes, this was the one I wanted. Halle­lujah. 
"Couldn't find the switch?" Then he glanced around. "Tara, did you get lost? I thought you were doing your medi­tation. It's Sunday. Afterwards, though, you can weed the north herb boxes if you want." 
She nodded silently, then grabbed the baggie and glided out, her brown eyes filled with both reverence and what seemed like fear. 
"Who was that?" I asked, staring after her, feeling unset­tled by the whole experience. "She seemed pretty intense." 
"Tara's been pretty intense for some time, perhaps for much of her life," he declared with a note of sadness as he closed the door behind her. "I've not been able to do anything for her, but I've let her stay on here since she has nowhere else to go. She loves the gardens, so I've let her work out there. It seems to improve her self-esteem, a kind of benign therapy, her own natural path toward centering." 
Well, I thought, she certainly could use some "centering." 
"Look, Dr. Goddard, let me get my things, and then I've got to be going. I can't start on anything right now. Not the way I'm feeling. And visiting your other clinic is completely out of the question, at least for the moment." 
I looked up from my screen and stared out the window at the street below for a minute. I don’t have time for this I told myself. 
Not this. Not now. I took a breath and made myself reread it. My stomach was hurting again. 
Dear Secret Avenger, 
I heard about you from Amy Vang, who said you helped her with a personal problem. I don't know if I can afford it, but I want to find out if you can help me, too. 
My sister told me there's a guy she met at...  to like a lot but she's never going back after this. They got talking about music and he told her about a neat album he bought and invited her to his apartment to check it out because he has a turn table and everything. He gave her some wine, 
and he must have put some thing in it because she woke up with the worst head ache ever and she doesn't remember what happened next. He said she drank a lot, but that's a lie. She doesn't even like wine. 
But she was asleep for hours and it was past midnight when she woke up and he was all hey, 
that was great and she was all what? I guess he did it to her while she was out, because it was so sore she even walked funny. Its not like she does this all the time. She just started high school. Her parents would kill her if they found out. 
“It’s the first time, you know. First time you asked for help.” 
I wanted to protest that it wasn’t true, that we’d worked together plenty of times before, on a variety of cases. But he was right—it had always been out of convenience. Because he happened to be around at the time, and was competent to give me a hand. 
Not because I needed help. 
“Shame it took such an extreme,” said Arthur. “But it’s a start. We’ll make a real person out of you yet.” The tension hadn’t gone away, but a shadow of a smile had crept into his voice. 
I didn’t know what to say to that, but something inside my chest eased. Not much, but a little. 
“Got things squared with the Feds, by the way,” Arthur continued. “The credit’s Sonya’s, to be honest. She kept her cool and held her ground, and I think they still want her cooperating enough that they’ll smooth anything over, long as we didn’t hurt any good guys. She told them they had to leave you be, no two ways about it, and your friend Agent Jones said okay, she’d make it all go away.” 
“There was an inquest, an’ all,” he said. “I’m darned glad it’s all over!” 
“It isn’t!” thought Lexy. “Somehow it belongs with other things. It’s a piece of the puzzle. I can’t fit it in now, but I will some day!” 
So she thanked Joe, and paid him for last night’s trip, though he made miserable and embarrassed efforts to stop her. Then she set off on her way. 
It was four o’clock by her watch when she reached the garden gate. She stopped for a moment with her hand on the latch, and, in spite of herself, a little shiver ran through her. The battered old house in the tangled garden looked more menacing to-day, in the tranquil spring sunshine, than it had in the rain. It was utterly lonely and quiet. Lexy could hear nothing but the distant sound of the surf, which was like the beating of a tired heart. 
Against the advice of Mrs. Enderby, almost against her own reason, she had come here to Wyngate, and to the house—and she had seen Caroline. The thing which was beyond reason had been right—so right that it frightened her; and now it bade her go on. It was like a voice telling her that her feet were set in the right path. 
“Told me what, jackass?” 
A slight frown appeared between his eyebrows. “I told you you’d lost your memory, and you didn’t believe me. You’re really messed up in the head about this, Cas.” 
My thoughts screeched to a halt. I had gone from vehement, thorough denial to “Yeah, somehow my past is gone, but nobody is to look into it” without noticing. Something was wrong with me. 
But it was something I obviously didn’t want to change. 
“Well, apparently my brain knew enough to try to keep you from looking,” I snapped, trying to get back to a level of dignified fury at him. “Sounds like there’s a reason for me not to look. I respect my subconscious for protecting that.” 
Checker was staring at me as if I had just announced the speed of light would henceforth be sixty miles per hour. “How can you say that?” he cried. “This is you, Cas! When is not knowing ever better than knowing?” 
“This time,” I said. “You can consider me fully informed now. And I’m telling you—” 
His phone buzzed. “It’s Arthur.” He picked up, leaving my rage whirling impotently. “What’s going on?...Okay, yeah...Yeah, of course.” He glanced up at me. “She’s here, actually.” 
If Pithica got to Rio, I wasn’t sure anyone would be able to stop them. 
“Ms. Russell,” said Dawna, that earnest passion back in her voice, “I know you haven’t yet been wholly convinced of our motives here. But don’t you think it could only be a good thing for Mr. Sonrio to have another check on his...inclinations? You know him—you know we would help him be a better man. As his friend, you must want that.” 
Like all of Dawna Polk’s arguments, it seemed so reasonable, such a perfect compromise. But for some reason—perhaps because I’d known and trusted Rio for so long, and it was Rio I trusted, not a Pithica-aligned Rio—I couldn’t find myself agreeing. I wasn’t even sure why. 
“You have a very special relationship with him,” Dawna observed. 
Yes, well, I trusted Rio, which meant I could rely on him, and for his part, he wasn’t actively annoyed by me. It was a nice symbiosis. Generous of her to call it a relationship. 
For the second time in our chat, Dawna seemed to be waiting for something, but I had no idea what. 
“I’m pretty sure you pointing a gun at me was all Dawna,” I said. 
“Which time?” 
We laughed a little at that, even though it wasn’t funny. 
“Ain’t my usual habit, you know,” Arthur said. “Greeting people barrel first. You didn’t catch me in my best week.” 
“Well, I don’t usually knock people unconscious to introduce myself, either,” I said. 
He affected surprise. “You don’t?” 
I punched him in the shoulder. Only a little harder than necessary. 
“Ow!” He gave me a mock glare, rubbing his arm, and then got serious again. “Listen. Been thinking about something. Dawna—when she had us prisoner, she talked to us, both of us, for a long time.” 
“Yeah,” I said. “Yeah, she did.” 
“How do we know...how do we know there ain’t more?” 
“You mean, how do we know that we don’t have, what, sleeper personalities or something? That what we’re thinking might not be our own thoughts anymore?” 
“Something like that.” 
I looked down at my hands. I wasn’t going to say it hadn’t occurred to me. “I don’t think it would be worth it to them,” I said. “That level of control. She got what she wanted from us, and—well, even at the end we weren’t under her total control, yeah?” 
“How do we do it?” Popovich said, without a trace of sarcasm. 
The newsgroups were filling up fast. They’d announced them in news.admin.net-abuse.email, where all the spamfighters hung out, and where there was a tight culture of camaraderie in the face of full-out attack. 
The new group was alt.november5-disaster.recovery, with.recovery.governance,.recovery.finance,.recovery.logistics and.recovery.defense hanging off of it. Bless the wooly alt. hierarchy and all those who sail in her. 
The sysadmins came out of the woodwork. The Googleplex was online, with the stalwart Queen Kong bossing a gang of rollerbladed grunts who wheeled through the gigantic data-center swapping out dead boxen and hitting reboot switches. The Internet Archive was offline in the Presidio, but...  they’d redirected the DNS so that you’d hardly know the difference. Amazon was down. Paypal was up. Blogger, Typepad and Livejournal were all up, and filling with millions of posts from scared survivors huddling together for electronic warmth. 
“Everybody stay calm,” declared the female guard. 
“Oh my God,” breathed her colleague, the blood draining from his face as he took in my features. “She does look like it.” 
“Look like who?” the female guard demanded tensely. 
“The—the woman who killed all those people—” 
The two guards began backing away from me, clearly deeming that their rent-a-cop duties weren’t worth risking their lives against a homicidal maniac. The woman had her walkie at her mouth again and was speaking very fast. It might have been a coincidence, but I heard sirens start up from not too far away. 
A fair crowd of not-very-bright onlookers now surrounded me at a healthy radius. Some people pulled frantically at their children and hurried away; others stared blatantly. I saw at least two people surreptitiously pull out mobile phones. 
This situation was not going to get any better. Time to get out of here. 
I glanced around. The crowd—how had it grown so fast?—meant making a dash through the parking lot would be tricky. But my back was to the building, and that was child’s play. I spun and leapt. A display of potted plants rose against the wall right behind me; I ran up the shelves like they were stairs and launched myself toward the roof, clearing the eaves in a dive and rolling back to my feet on the flat rooftop. Shouts erupted behind me as I ran. Too easy! 
Women in mathematics were the minority, and I’d been careful never to use a pronoun so as not to give him any clue. The Lancer knew we were going after Rita Martinez. 
How had he figured it out? Only Arthur, Checker, Halliday, and I knew Martinez was involved at all. And Zhang, but he wouldn’t have told anyone. 
Could the Lancer have made a wild guess based on Martinez’s and Halliday’s friendship, and the fact that they were both in the same subfield? No, that was ridiculous; this problem had a one-in-infinity chance of being solved by anyone, and he would know that. Absent other information, it would be far more likely someone halfway around the world had solved it and was simply keeping an eye on how the U.S. government was responding to a similar proof here in California. 
The Lancer must have used his computer skills somehow. Maybe he’d hacked into communications between Halliday and Martinez, or between Martinez and Zhang, and read between the lines—maybe he’d been convinced by Martinez’s sudden disappearance from Pasadena—hell, maybe he’d hacked Checker’s security system, found the one-time pad, and been reading my encoded messages to Martinez all along. Or maybe he just did know the field that well, and knew Martinez was one of the few people who had any chance of solving this. 
"I'm not going to unlock my phone for you," I said, indignant. My phone's memory had all kinds of private stuff on it: photos, emails, little hacks and mods I'd installed. "That's private stuff." 
"What have you got to hide?" 
"I've got the right to my privacy," I said. "And I want to speak to an attorney." 
"This is your last chance, kid. Honest people don't have anything to hide." 
"I want to speak to an attorney." My parents would pay for it. All the FAQs on getting arrested were clear on this point. Just keep asking to see an attorney, no matter what they say or do. There's no good that comes of talking to the cops without your lawyer present. These two said they weren't cops, but if this wasn't an arrest, what was it? 
In hindsight, maybe I should have unlocked my phone for them. 
They re-shackled and re-hooded me and left me there. A long time later, the truck started to move, rolling downhill, and then I was hauled back to my feet. I immediately fell over. My legs were so asleep they felt like blocks of ice, all except my knees, which were swollen and tender from all the hours of kneeling. 
“Hey, sweetheart,” interrupted a voice by my right shoulder. “Buy you a drink?” 
I frowned without looking up. People didn’t hit on me in bars. First of all, I wasn’t attractive. Whatever my mix of genes was, it combined to give me the approximate appearance of a small brown troll, and the way I dressed didn’t help: sloppy loose clothes and combat boots with no makeup and short hair that approximated a tangled bird’s nest. Second, I gave off “keep away” vibes strong enough to pin the largest man to the far wall. 
Which meant the speaker was either blind drunk or someone I knew, and the vocal oscillations had already teased out to solve the mystery anyway. “Arthur,” I said, without turning. I needed more alcohol. 
A tall black man came into view beside me. He was in his forties-ish, good-looking, with a square jaw that had a close-shaved beard pebbling it, and unlike me he always dressed neatly—well, as if he expected to be seen by other people when he left the house. He swung himself up onto the next stool over. 
I pointed at the screen on my side of the bed. She rolled over and grabbed my keyboard and scribed on the touchpad with her fingertip. She read in silence. 
I paced. 
"This has to be lies," she said. "The DHS is playing games with your head." 
I looked at her. She was biting her lip. She didn't look like she believed it. 
"You think?" 
"Sure. They can't beat you, so they're coming after you using Xnet." 
"Yeah." 
I sat back down on the bed. I was breathing fast again. 
"Chill out," she said. "It's just head-games. Here." 
She never took my keyboard from me before, but now there was a new intimacy between us. She hit reply and typed, 
> Nice try. 
She was writing as M1k3y now, too. We were together in a way that was different from before. 
"Go ahead and sign it. We'll see what she says." 
I didn't know if that was the best idea, but I didn't have any better ones. I signed it and encrypted it with my private key and the public key Masha had provided. 
Attached was source-code for a little program that appeared to do exactly what Masha claimed: pull video over the Domain Name Service protocol. 
As I moved down the hard clay pathway toward them, two looked up and took notice. Their first reaction seemed to be alarm, as they tensed and stared. But then I tried a smile and it seemed to work. Their looks turned to puzzlement, then embarrassed grins, as though they wanted to be friendly but weren't sure how to acknowledge my presence. 
When I reached the porch, several reached out to touch me. One older woman, short and wizened and extremely brown, even tried to stroke my hair. 
They all returned uncomprehending looks, then glanced quickly at each other in confusion. Or at least that was how I read their faces. 
"Sarah," I said, pronouncing the name slowly. "Sarah Crenshaw." 
"Sara," one voiced, then others. They backed away and immediately began a heated dispute, which eventually in­volved all the women. Well, one thing was for sure: They damned well knew who I was asking about. But why were they so upset? Next, several of them grew testy, pointing at me as they continued to argue. 
“Did I do this?” mumbled Arthur. “Did I?” 
“I don’t know,” I said. 
Orphaned adapters and Ethernet connectors told us Checker had kept no shortage of computers in the house, either, but everything from laptops and tablets to ebook readers had been swept up and taken. I wandered into the living room. A flat screen TV dangled crookedly on the wall where it had been knocked askew, and a snowdrift of papers from an emptied file cabinet made half a mummy of a guitar on a stand. It looked like Checker had had a pleasant place, before he’d been abducted. 
“Russell,” Arthur called. 
I found him in the washroom, frowning at the sink. “What is it?” I asked. 
“Toothbrush,” he said. “Toothbrush and toothpaste are missing.” 
“So?” 
“Seem weird to you? Kidnappers or killers, and they take him a toothbrush?” 
I mulled it over. It did seem weird. 
“My God,” said Arthur suddenly. He pushed back out of the washroom, dashed to the front door, and flung it open to dive out onto the porch, his head swiveling from side to side as if he were trying to see in all directions at once. 
"I don't have them very often," apologized Emma Jane,—"ideas, I mean; this one shook me like a stroke of lightning. Rebecca, couldn't it be success?" 
"That's good," mused Rebecca; "I can see that success would be a joy, but it doesn't seem to me like a rose, somehow. I was wondering if it could be love?" 
"I wish we could have a peep at the book! It must be perfectly elergant!" said Emma Jane. "But now you say it is love, I think that's the best guess yet." 
All day long the four words haunted and possessed Rebecca; she said them over to herself continually. Even the prosaic Emma Jane was affected by them, for in the evening she said, "I don't expect you to believe it, but I have another idea,—that's two in one day; I had it while I was putting cologne on your head. The rose of joy might be helpfulness." 
"If it is, then it is always blooming in your dear little heart, you darlingest, kind Emmie, taking such good care of your troublesome Becky!" 
"Don't dare to call yourself troublesome! You're—you're—you're my rose of joy, that's what you are!" And the two girls hugged each other affectionately. 
She took out a white and...  Balducci's on the side. I was still holding Kevin, who threw Benny onto the floor, then began to sniffle and point. 
But Carly seemed not to notice as...  grinder. "Well, getting a baby the fun way turned out to be moot, because it seems I have some kind of uterine condition—which meant I couldn't get pregnant, or even do an in vitro. Bottom line, if I wanted a baby, I had to adopt." 
She pressed the...  a blast of whirring through the kitchen. In seconds it was over and she was tapping the batch into her Braun. "So that's when I started on the attorney thing, got worked over good trying to adopt as a single mom, and finally heard about Children of Light." 
"The adoption organization? What do you know about them?" 
"Tell you the main thing," she said, "they're the place that can make it happen." She reached over and poked Kevin's tummy. "Right, big guy?" 
Sure looked that way. What a cutie. 
By now the spacious living room had been turned into a mini film set, with two 35-mm Panaflex cameras set up, windows blanked out, lights and filters in place, and a video camera and monitor. Having tested the boom mike and the tape recorder, Tony and Sherry were ready. 
If he had hesitated, I would have started breaking Arthur out myself, but one thing I loved about Rio was that he never wasted time arguing or wavering. Less than five seconds later, Arthur was out as well, and we hurried after Rio down the cellblock. I paused briefly as we stepped over the fallen guards to relieve one of his M4 and sidearm; Arthur did the same with the other body. They were dead, I noticed. Definitely dead. 
Rearmed, we followed Rio into the corridor at a quick trot. “Security system?” I asked. 
“Compromised,” he said. “We should be clear until after we’re out.” 
“Subtle of you,” I observed, a little surprised—“subtle” didn’t usually describe him. 
“This was a trap, Cas,” Rio explained without turning back to me. “The Lord’s wrath has patience.” 
Oh, hell. How could I have been so stupid? 
Dawna had already told me this was all about Rio. Interring us here had nothing to do with me or Arthur or recruiting us to Pithica—we were only bait to catch...  fuck, Rio had played right into their hands by coming after me... 
“What does it mean?” she asked herself in terror. “What is the matter with me? Is this whole thing just a delusion? I came here to find Caroline, and I thought—I thought I did see her. Am I mad?” 
That was the awful thing that had lain in ambush in her mind ever since yesterday, that had haunted her restless sleep all night. She had not admitted it, but it had been there every minute. All her actions, all her words, to-day, had the one object of showing Mrs. Royce and Captain Grey how entirely normal and sensible she was. 
“That’s what they always do!” she whispered with dry lips. 
All day, hiding her terror and weakness, talking to Mrs. Royce, sitting at the lunch table and talking and laughing with Captain Grey, trying to make them believe her quite cheerful and untroubled—and all the time perhaps they knew. Perhaps they were humoring her! 
She sprang up and went over to the window. The sun was beginning to sink in a tranquil sky. It had been a beautiful day, but Lexy felt too weary and listless to go out. She remembered now that both Captain Grey and the landlady had urged her to do so, that they had both said it would do her good. Then they must have noted that something was wrong with her. What did they think it was? Did she look— She crossed the room and stood before the mirror. The rays of the setting sun fell upon her hair, turning it to copper and gold. It seemed to her to shine with a strange light about her pallid little face. Her eyes seemed enormous, somber, and terrible. 
“I’m really good at math,” I said. Too good. “That’s all.” 
Polk snorted as if I were putting her on, but then her face knitted in a frown, and I felt her staring at me in the darkness. Oh, hell. I like it better when my clients hire me to retrieve inanimate objects. People are so annoying. 
By morning, my madly circuitous route had only brought us halfway back to LA. Switching cars twice and drastically changing direction three times might not have been strictly necessary, but it made my paranoid self feel better. 
The desert night had turned cold; fortunately, we were now in a junky old station wagon instead of the open jeep, though the car’s heater only managed a thin stream of lukewarm air. Polk had her bony knees hunched up in front of her and had buried her face against them. She hadn’t spoken in hours. 
I was grateful. This job had had enough monkey wrenches already without needing to explain myself to an ungrateful child every other minute. 
Polk sat up as we drove into the rising sun. “You said you do retrieval.” 
“I don’t know how long it was,” Caroline went on. “It must have been days, or perhaps weeks. Sometimes I seemed to knew, in a sort of dream. Oh, it was horrible! Oh, Lexy, I can’t explain! I didn’t really know anything, only that sometimes my mind seemed to be struggling—” 
“Take some of this soup,” said Lexy. “You’ve got to, Caroline, or I won’t listen.” 
Obediently Caroline allowed herself to be fed. She took fully half of that excellent soup, and it did her good. 
“Yesterday,” she said, “I did know. I couldn’t sleep all night. I felt so ill, I thought I was going to die; and all the time it was coming back to me. I couldn’t think why I was there in that place. I was frightened—worse than frightened. The nurse kept calling me ‘Mrs. Quelton,’ and I told her I wasn’t Mrs. Quelton—I was Caroline Enderby. She must have told him. He came, he kept looking at me, and saying, ‘You are Muriel Quelton, I tell you!’ Then he sent the nurse away, and he said: ‘If you insist that you are Caroline Enderby, you’re mad, and I’ll send you to an asylum.’ I was—oh, Lexy, I’m not brave!—I was afraid of him. When you came that morning, I didn’t dare to tell you. I hoped you’d find the handkerchief, and know; and then—” 
"Shut up!" 
"Okay. I'm just asking. If it bothers you so much, I'll reach my own conclusions from available data." A very brief pause. "Ray?" 
"What?" 
"Available data suggests that you and Emma Whiston have a pronounced and mutual sexual attraction. " 
"Thanks." He wonders if this passes as humor for the drone AI. Ray says, "When I speak to you normally, 
outside this interface and outside the normal command vocabulary-like I'm talking to you now— do you understand what I'm saying?" 
"No. This new code you've input, like Lawrence's old code, is a verbal-to-binary translator. I don't have authority to access translation programs on my own." 
"In other words, it only works when I initiate the dialogue utility." 
"Exactly." 
"Then how do you know what I want you to do?" 
"Because you modulate your vocal patterns to a higher volume, as though I'm deaf, which tells me you want me to do something specific. The rest is inspired guesswork based on hand signals and vocal commands that have been hardcoded into my response logic tree. " 
"Ray!" 
He doesn't want to turn around. As a matter of personal policy, turning around seems like a very bad idea... though perhaps not so bad as not turning around, because nobody booms his name down a cavernous gangway with that queer mix of menace and psychic exhaustion like Ziggy. And blowing off Ziggy would constitute a career-endingly bad idea. 
Zig is a large black man, balding, but compensating in the follicle department with a devastating fu-manchu moustache that turns the entire lower half of his face into a forest of bristling pubic hairs. 
Ziggy is a hardware hacker retired to administrative oversight. Ray is the only one who calls him Ziggy. 
Everyone else refers to him as Section Chief Zighowser. 
Face to face, Ziggy continues, "You're not taking that drone abovedecks." 
"Traitor," he grouses. 
Ziggy shakes his head. "Commander Sorensen has been pretty danged clear, I think. To everyone but you, that is." 
"There was a memo," Ray agrees. 
"And the memo said?" 
"Drones are confined to engineering levels, conduits and appropriate task-sensitive decks and zones." 
“Why did Joe do that?” she asked. 
“Don’t ask me , Miss Moran!” replied Mrs. Royce. “It beats me!” 
There was a silence. 
“But ain’t you going upstairs to see what she wants?” inquired Mrs. Royce anxiously. 
Captain Grey sprang to his feet. 
“Good God!” he shouted. “What are you talking about?” 
Mrs. Royce backed into a corner, regarding him with alarm. 
“I jest thought you’d like to talk to her,” she faltered. 
“Do you mean she’s not dead ?” 
“Dead? Oh, my goodness gracious me!” cried Mrs. Royce. “I never—” 
“Wait here,” Lexy told the captain. 
“No!” he replied. “I must—” 
But, disregarding him, Lexy turned to Mrs. Royce. 
“Let me see her,” she said. 
Mrs. Royce led the way upstairs. She went at an unusual rate of speed, so that she was panting when she reached the top. 
“Kind of vi’lent!” she whispered, pointing downstairs, where Captain Grey was. 
“This room?” asked Lexy. “Shall I go in?” 
“Well,” said Mrs. Royce, “seems to me I’d knock, if I was you.” 
Knock on the door of the room where Mrs. Quelton lay? Knock, and expect an answer from that voice? It seemed to Lexy, for a moment, that she could not raise her hand. 
"This is kind of fun," he said, as they zipped past some surfer dudes staring glumly at their long-boards' displays, their perfect tits buoyant and colored like anodized aluminum with electric-tinted sun-paste. 
"Ahem," Trish said, squeezing his hand tight enough to make his knuckles grind together. "You were about to explain tombstone-unveiling to me," she said. "When you got distracted by the athletic twinkies on the roadside. But I am sweet-natured and good and forgiving and so I will pretend not to have seen it and thus save us both the embarrassment of tearing out your Islets of Langerhans, all right?" She fluttered her eyes innocently in a way that she happened to know made him melt. 
"Explaining! Yes! OK, remember, I'm not particularly Jewish. I mean, not that my parents are, either: they're just Orthodox. They don't believe in God or anything, they just like Biblical Law as a way of negotiating life." 
"Let the record show that the witness declared his utter ignorance," she said. "But I don't get this atheist-Orthodox thing either --" 
“You have neighbors?” 
“At least ten,” she said. “The people in the restaurant across the way make a pretty good soup, even... They cleaned me out of Sterno, though.” 
“You’ve got neighbors and you trade with them?” 
“Well, nominally. It’d be pretty lonely without them. I’ve taken care of whatever sniffles I could. Set a bone—broken wrist. Listen, do you want some Wonder Bread and peanut butter? I have a ton of it. Your friend looks like he could use a meal.” 
“Yes please,” Van said. “We don’t have anything to trade, but we’re both committed workaholics looking to learn a trade. Could you use some assistants?” 
“Not really.” She spun her axe on its head. “But I wouldn’t mind some company.” 
They ate the sandwiches and then some soup. The restaurant people brought it over and made their manners at them, though Felix saw their noses wrinkle up and ascertained that there was working plumbing in the back room. Van went in to take a sponge bath and then he followed. 
“None of us know what to do,” the woman said. Her name was Rosa, and she had found them a bottle of wine and some disposable plastic cups from the housewares aisle. “I thought we’d have helicopters or tanks or even looters, but it’s just quiet.” 
“Now, Miss Craigie,” said Mrs. Enderby, “if you will permit Miss Moran to go upstairs?” 
“Oh, certainly!” answered the bewildered Miss Craigie. “Whatever you think best, Mrs. Enderby, I’m sure.” 
“Go!” said Mrs. Enderby. 
The lady’s tone aroused in Lexy a great desire not to go. Of course, now that she had gone so far, it would be childish to refuse to continue; but she meant to take her time. She stood there by the window, slowly drawing off her gloves, her back turned to the room. Suddenly Mrs. Enderby caught her by the shoulder and turned her around. 
“Go!” she said again. “Take off those things of my child’s. Have you no heart?” 
There was such a note of anguish in her voice that Lexy no longer delayed. She followed Miss Craigie up the stairs to a neat, prim little bedroom, where the trunk stood, already unlocked. 
“If you want anything—” suggested Miss Craigie, in her gentle and apologetic way. 
“No, thank you,” replied Lexy. 
Miss Craigie went out, closing the door softly behind her. Lexy took off Caroline’s hat and coat and laid them on the bed. 
No one had given it much thought. And now that people were paying attention, we were all starting to notice little things, like the fact that the FasTrak doesn't have an off-switch. 
So if you drove a car, you were just as likely to be pulled over by an SFPD cruiser that wanted to know why you were taking so many trips to the Home Depot lately, and what was that midnight drive up to Sonoma last week about? 
The little demonstrations around town on the weekend were growing. Fifty thousand people marched down Market Street after a week of this monitoring. I couldn't care less. The people who'd occupied my city didn't care what the natives wanted. They were a conquering army. They knew how we felt about that. 
One morning I came down to breakfast just in time to hear Dad tell Mom that the two biggest taxi companies were going to give a "discount" to people who used special cards to pay their fares, supposedly to make drivers safer by reducing the amount of cash they carried. I wondered what would happen to the information about who took which cabs where. 
"Mirandy 's smart enough," said Mrs. Cobb, "but you notice she stays right to home, and she's more close-mouthed than ever she was; never took a mite o' pride in the prize, as I could see, though it pretty nigh drove Jeremiah out o' his senses. I thought I should 'a' died o' shame when he cried 'Hooray!' and swung his straw hat when the governor shook hands with Rebecca. It's lucky he couldn't get fur into the church and had to stand back by the door, for as it was, he made a spectacle of himself. My suspicion is"—and here every lady stopped eating and sat up straight—"that the Sawyer girls have lost money. They don't know a thing about business 'n' never did, and Mirandy's too secretive and contrairy to ask advice." 
"The most o' what they've got is in gov'ment bonds, I always heard, and you can't lose money on them. Jane had the timber land left her, an' Mirandy had the brick house. She probably took it awful hard that Rebecca's fifty dollars had to be swallowed up in a mortgage, 'stead of goin' towards school expenses. The more I think of it, the more I think Adam Ladd intended Rebecca should have that prize when he gave it." The mind of Huldah's mother ran towards the idea that her daughter's rights had been assailed. 
Frankie sighs wistfully. "Ah,...  
"I think so." 
"Good deal. And by the way, a couple of the other guys— system vets— have been in looking for you. Chief Zighowser is pissed enough to skin cats. I'm supposed to pass the word if I see you." 
"You haven't." 
A nice, Mafia shrug. "I seen nothin'." 
Frankie steps aside so they can fold themselves into the booth, well apart from the dozen or so other customers in the room. "Gino will be with in a moment. Might I recommend the house special?"  Ray doesn't know what the special is, but he nods anyway. 
Emma watches them go, then leans forward with her elbows on the table. "You come here often?" 
"Frankie takes care of me." 
"He isn't Italian, I don't think." 
"Don't tell him that. You'll destroy his confidence." Ray presses close, lowers his voice. "This is his first franchise voyage. He's made amazing leaps since Terra, believe me." 
Then, "You've never been here before?" 
Ray lifts an eyebrow. "And you never go anywhere without his escort?" 
The assumptions that people make used to annoy him; now he merely finds them amusing mostly, or at times like this, slightly embarrassing. 
But that's done with now. The woman made an effort to chat him up for a few more minutes afterward, but politely and didn't proposition again before she slunk back to her corner and eventually out of the bar all together. This is another thing that he has found curiously loopy about Paraclete and its denizens. There is so much casual and consensual mating going on, it borders on the outrageous. You would think people had nothing else to do. 
Now Rodriguez is a Marine. He did his six month stint in New Mes straight out of basic, just like every other Marine in the last decade, before he traded up to starships. He knows something about cheap, easy sex, 
because there isn't a military entrenchment anywhere in the world that doesn't accumulate an entourage of brothels and whores and available local women willing to trade sex for money. It's part of the environment, 
His air gauge was in the red now. He could still technically surface without a decompression stop, though procedure was to stop for three minutes at three meters, just to be on the safe side. 
Technically, he could just go up like a cork and email himself to the row-boat while the bends or nitrogen narcosis took the body, but that wouldn’t be Asimovist. He was surprised he could even think the thought. Must be the body. It sounded like the kind of thing a human might think. Whoops. There it was again. 
The reef wasn’t muttering at him anymore. Not answering it must have tipped it off. After all, with all the raw compute-power it had marshaled it should be able to brute-force most possible outcomes of sending its envoy to the surface. 
Robbie peered anxiously around himself. The light was dim in the cave and his body expertly drew the torch out of his BCD, strapped it onto his wrist and lit it up. He waved the cone of light around, a part of him distantly amazed by the low resolution and high limits on these human eyes. 
"Ria," she said. "Call me Ria." She sat down on one of the topiary chairs, kicking off her comfortable hush puppies and pulling her legs up to sit cross-legged. 
"I've never gone barefoot in this room," he said, looking at her calloused feet -- feet that did a lot of barefooting. 
"Do it," she said, making scooting gestures. "I insist. Do it!" 
He kicked off the handmade shoes -- designed by an architect who'd given up on literary criticism to pursue cobblery -- and used his toes to peel off his socks. Under his feet, the ground was -- warm? cool? -- it was perfect . He couldn't pin down the texture, but it made every nerve ending on the sensitive soles of his feet tingle pleasantly. 
"I'm thinking something that goes straight into the nerves," she said. "It has to be. Extraordinary." 
"You know your way around this place better than I do," he said. 
She shrugged. "This room was clearly designed to impress. It would be stupid to be so cool-obsessed that I failed to let it impress me. I'm impressed. Also," she dropped her voice, "also, I'm wondering if anyone's ever snuck in here and screwed on that stuff." She looked seriously at him and he tried to keep a straight face, but the chuckle wouldn't stay put in his chest, and it broke loose, and a laugh followed it, and she whooped and they both laughed, hard, until their stomachs hurt. 
"I can't imagine a babe doing a family wash with ANY soap," answered Rebecca; "but it must be true or they would never dare to print it, so don't let's bother. Oh! won't it be the greatest fun, Emma Jane? At some of the houses—where they can't possibly know me—I shan't be frightened, and I shall reel off the whole rigmarole, invalid, babe, and all. Perhaps I shall say even the last sentence, if I can remember it: 'We sound every chord in the great mac-ro-cosm of satisfaction." 
This conversation took place on a Friday afternoon at Emma Jane's house, where Rebecca, to her unbounded joy, was to stay over Sunday, her aunts having gone to Portland to the funeral of an old friend. Saturday being a holiday, they were going to have the old white horse, drive to North Riverboro three miles away, eat a twelve o'clock dinner with Emma Jane's cousins, and be back at four o'clock punctually. 
When the children asked Mrs. Perkins if they could call at just a few houses coming and going, and sell a little soap for the Simpsons, she at first replied decidedly in the negative. She was an indulgent parent, however, and really had little objection to Emma Jane amusing herself in this unusual way; it was only for Rebecca, as the niece of the difficult Miranda Sawyer, that she raised scruples; but when fully persuaded that the enterprise was a charitable one, she acquiesced. 
Ms Galvez nodded slowly. I could tell she was trying to figure out how to handle Charles, who really seemed like he was ready to pop. "Charles raises a good point. The Yippies weren't foreign agents, they were American citizens. When you say 'They attacked us,' you need to figure out who 'they' and 'us' are. When it's your fellow countrymen --" 
"Crap!" he shouted. He was on his feet now. "We were at war then. These guys were giving aid and comfort to the enemy. It's easy to tell who's us and who's them: if you support America, you're us. If you support the people who are shooting at Americans, you're them ." 
"Does anyone else want to comment on this?" 
Several hands shot up. Ms Galvez called on them. Some people pointed out that the reason that the Vietnamese were shooting at Americans is that the Americans had flown to Vietnam and started running around the jungle with guns. Others thought that Charles had a point, that people shouldn't be allowed to do illegal things. 
Everyone had a good debate except Charles, who just shouted at people, interrupting them when they tried to get their points out. Ms Galvez tried to get him to wait for his turn a couple times, but he wasn't having any of it. 
He opened it and read quickly. Someone was crudely, repeatedly probing his routers. It didn’t match a worm’s signature, either. He followed the traceroute and discovered that the attack had originated in the same building as him, a system in a cage one floor below. 
He had procedures for this. He portscanned his attacker and found that port 1337 was open—1337 was “leet” or “elite” in hacker number/letter substitution code. That was the kind of port that a worm left open to slither in and out of. He googled known sploits that left a listener on port 1337, narrowed this down based on the fingerprinted operating system of the compromised server, and then he had it. 
It was an ancient worm, one that every box should have been patched against years before. No mind. He had the client for it, and he used it to create a root account for himself on the box, which he then logged into, and took a look around. 
There was one other user logged in, “scaredy,” and he checked the proccess monitor and saw that scaredy had spawned all the hundreds of processes that were probing him and plenty of other boxen. 
She carried water that day. She’d expected to be balancing buckets over her shoulders like in the schoolbooks, but they fitted her with a bubble-suit that distributed the weight over her whole body and then filled it up with a hose until she weighed nearly twice what she normally did. Other kids were in the stairwells wearing identical bubble-suits, sloshing up the steps to old peoples’ flats that smelled funny. The old women and men that Valentine saw that day pinched her cheeks and then emptied out her bubble-suit into their cisterns. 
It was exhausting work and by the end of the day she had stopped making even perfunctory conversation with the other water-carriers. The old people she met at the day’s end were bitter about being left alone and thirsty all day and they snapped at her and didn’t thank her at all. 
She picked Trover up from the creche and he demanded that he be carried and she had half a mind to toss him down the stairs. But she noticed that he had a bruise over his eye and his hands and face were sticky and dirty and she decided that he’d had a hard day too. Mata and Popa weren’t home when they got there so Valentine made dinner—more cold cereal and some cabbage with leftover dumplings kept cool in a bag hung out the window—and then when they still hadn’t returned by bedtime, Valentine tucked Trover in and then fell asleep herself. 
"I'm working on my thesis, Grampa. I'm here to interview you -- I'll be around for the next couple weeks." 
"That's nice," Grampa said. "How's your father?" 
"He's fine. I didn't tell him I was coming down, though. You're a touchy subject for him." 
Grampa settled back into his chair. Sean was distantly aware of other Survivors on the ward, gabbling and twitching at videogames and smoking all at once. They were high-functioning -- they could be switched on with simple stim; Grampa only switched on for important occasions. 
Sean said, "Dad wishes you'd die." 
That did it. It was easy to tell when Grampa was switched on; the rhythmic, methodical maintenance twitching was replaced with a restless, all-over fidget; and his eyes darted around the room. "Is he in some kind of financial trouble? He doesn't need to wait for a bequest -- I'll write to the trustees right now." 
Sean restrained himself from saying hello again, now that Grampa was switched on. He kept himself focused on the task of keeping Grampa switched on. "He wishes you'd die because he hates you and he hates himself for it. When you die, he can stop hating you and start mourning you. He knows it wasn't your fault. That's why I'm here. I want to collect your stories and make some sense out of them, before you die." Sean took a deep breath. "Will you stay switched on?" 
“I’m glad,” said Lexy; “but how did you manage to keep the roses so wonderfully fresh, Captain Grey?” 
“The doctor wrapped them for me—some rather special way, you know—damp paper, and then a cloth. He told me not to open them until I gave them to you. Very clever chap, isn’t he?” 
“He is!” agreed Lexy, with a faint smile. 
“Mind if I smoke, Miss Moran?” asked the young man. “Thanks!” 
He lit a cigarette and sat down on the window sill. He was silent, and so was Lexy, for she fancied that he had something he wished to say. 
“Miss Moran,” he said, at last, “you’ll go there again to see her, won’t you?” 
Lexy considered for a moment. 
“Why?” she asked. “Why did you think I wouldn’t?” 
“I was afraid you might think—it’s the atmosphere of the place—I’m sure of it—that made you nervous the other afternoon. It’s something about the place, you know. I’ve felt it myself. I was afraid you wouldn’t care to go again, and I don’t like to think of her there—alone.” 
“She’s not alone,” observed Lexy blandly. “She has her clever husband.” 
“Wait, how do you know my email address?” 
A hint of his former humor returned. “I’m all-powerful, Cas Russell. Didn’t I tell you?” 
I rolled my eyes. “Yeah, you mentioned it once or twice.” 
“I’m like Oracle, Mr. Universe, and Elaine Roberts all rolled into one. Nothing can hide from me! Oh, uh, speaking of, I think I found Dawna Polk.” 
“Wait, what?” I turned away from Arthur and lowered my voice. “What do you mean, you found her?” 
“Checker. Spit it out.” 
I snorted. 
“I’m on your side on that, but here’s the interesting part,” said Checker. “When she was ten or so, Daniela got more famous than her parents. Psychic extraordinaire. She was brilliant at it.” 
“Brilliant at making people believe her rigmarole,” I said. 
“I told you, I’m with you, but you’re not seeing this. She was doing that when she was ten.” 
The air in the room suddenly felt heavy. “And after that?” 
“That’s the weird thing. She just dropped off the face of the earth.” 
“And then what?” 
“And then nothing, that’s what I’m telling you. For years. I found two other recent aliases for her in other countries, both as airtight as the Polk one, and who knows how many others might be out there, but in between—” 
“I don’t drink on the job,” I said. “I drink more than enough between jobs.” 
“Between jobs, you say?” He took another swig. “You’re on, Cas Russell.” 
“On for what?” 
“You and me. Drinking contest. Once all this is over. I bet I kick your ass.” 
I highly doubted that, but this wasn’t the time for a pissing contest. I snapped my fingers at him. “Hey. Focus, or I’ll cut you off.” 
“I’m focused!” he protested, and to be fair, even my math ability could only detect the barest elision in the words. “I can’t do this without drinking. Too depressing.” 
I couldn’t argue with him there. 
Three hours ago we had realized—well, Checker had realized, with his uncanny savvy about finances and money laundering operations—that the sources of Pithica’s enterprises weren’t merely faceless organizations. To be sure, some were innocuous front businesses, or odd governmental funds, or false charities. But others... 
Once we figured out where some of the money was coming from, we started looking more closely. And then more closely. It turned out the lion’s share of Pithica’s revenue came from...well. From places that would have been on Rio’s target list. 
“Yeah. Arthur has enough interactions with, uh, unsavory people that it just seemed best for all concerned. I mean, most people who know me personally know I work with Arthur, but anyone who can make the connection in the other direction is probably someone I’d have to go off the grid to be sure of avoiding, and unless we know there’s a danger I think it’s more important right now that I have access to all my equipment. And I doubt I’d be anyone’s first priority if they wanted to...uh...” 
“If they wanted to get to me,” said Arthur heavily. 
“I’m keeping tabs,” Checker assured him. “On everyone—uh—you know. I’m tracking Professor Sonya’s phone, too. She’s been staying put.” 
“Good. Thanks,” said Arthur. 
“I do absolutely promise I’ll run away if it looks like there’s going to be any danger to us, though—running away is an excellent and noble option that you two should try more often. Oh—Pilar’s here. Anything else? If not, we’ll get to it.” 
“Call us if you find anything,” I said. 
“Of course I will.” He hesitated. “Hey. Arthur.” 
T he monitor's picture was in color, but the predominant hue was brown. Where was this? The OR had to be some­where in the clinic, but still . . . 
The space looked flawlessly sterile, obviously an operat­ing theater, but it was certainly like none other on earth. The walls were not white or pale blue; they had the shade of stone and were decorated with Maya picture writing and bas-reliefs. It was as though a sacred chapel had been converted into a surgery. I guessed this was what he meant by "cos­metic changes." A door was visible on the right side of the screen, and moments later Alex Goddard strode through, coming in from the hallway. 
So, it must be right next door. God, the place looked an­cient and haunted. 
I watched as he walked over to a basin and scrubbed his hands, then donned a white surgical mask. Next he flipped various switches on the walls. Finally he put on a second mask that glistened like some green crystalline material. 
What was that for? Then it hit me. A "jade" mask . . . 
“I was going to stay with a friend, but . . .” 
“Whatever. But seriously, I don’t mind, and my place isn’t far from here.” 
I wanted to see that phone. I wanted to search his apartment. I had a plan. 
A totally insane plan that made me feel excited and daring. 
Also, terrified. 
At first it played out the way I expected. As I walked my bike beside him, he told me he had just picked up a new album from this great local band, and I had to hear it. Vinyl produced a much better sound than digital. Exactly the same pitch he’d used on “Charlie,” the Secret Avenger’s client. 
I was still weighing my options, trying to figure out if the plan that had come to me would work or if I should make an excuse and bail. After a few blocks we stopped in front of a decrepit house. “That’s me, up there.” He pointed up a flight of wooden stairs on the side of the two-story rental. “Let’s listen to the album, and then I’ll make up the couch for you.” 
“I don’t want to be any trouble.” 
“People crash at my place all the time.” He took my free hand and acted concerned. “Don’t you worry about getting frostbite, 
“It’s all gone,” he said. “You won’t get a scrap of it. What a goddamned waste. We were on your side, you know.” 
“You were very well-fed,” the general said. 
One of the documentarians sobbed. 
“What a pointless goddamned waste. Spiteful, stupid, boneheaded—” The wizard broke off, looking at Valentine. “Her hearing aids.” 
Valentine smiled. “Yes,” she said. “My hearing aids. I’m recording you now. Do you have any words you’d like to say for the microphone?” 
The wizard’s jaw dropped to his chest and his whole body sort of crumpled, slumping in the grasp of the soldier who held him. 
“You little—” 
Valentine put a sarcastic finger to her lips and then made a show of covering Trover’s ears. She saw Ana smile involuntarily before the woman turned away. 
Three days after they arrested the wizard, the sky-cars lifted off again. They roared over the enemy lines, dropping intelligent motes that zeroed in on enemy soldiers and burrowed up their nostrils and in their ears and in the corners of their eyes and rattled in their skulls until their brains were paste and goo. 
“California law expressly prohibits a private investigator from sharing any information related to a case without prior consent of the client!” Kingsley snapped. 
“California law also prohibits PIs from trespassing on private property, or drawing firearms on unarmed citizens, or pretending to be anything other than a PI to get information,” Tresting said, crossing his arms. “Don’t believe you’ve expressed any displeasure with me before.” 
I hadn’t known those laws. Wow, Arthur Tresting was one naughty PI. 
“They killed Reg,” Kingsley spat, her voice trembling with fury. “Try to remember that. It may not be personal for you, but finding out what happened is the single most important thing in the world to me. Have you ever loved anyone, Mr. Tresting? If so, try to put yourself in my shoes.” 
She spun on her heel and stalked out of the office. Tresting slumped into his chair, his head sagging. 
I thought Kingsley was being a bit hard on the poor man. It was obvious to me he’d been driving himself into the ground investigating this. “Good thing you didn’t tell her you spilled about her case while we were pointing guns at each other,” I said. 
I thought about trying to take it from her by force, but she'd already demonstrated her physical skill. She must have been a black-belt or something. 
We sat there in the dark, listening to the three guys load the truck with box after box, tying things down, grunting with the effort of it. I tried to sleep, but couldn't. Masha had no such problem. She snored. 
There was still light shining through the narrow, obstructed corridor that led to the fresh air outside. I stared at it, through the gloom, and thought of Ange. 
My Ange. Her hair brushing her shoulders as she turned her head from side to side, laughing at something I'd done. Her face when I'd seen her last, falling down in the crowd at VampMob. All those people at VampMob, like the people in the park, down and writhing, the DHS moving in with truncheons. The ones who disappeared. 
Darryl. Stuck on Treasure Island, his side stitched up, taken out of his cell for endless rounds of questioning about the terrorists. 
Darryl's father, ruined and boozy, unshaven. Washed up and in his uniform, "for the photos." Weeping like a little boy. 
The question made me seethe. Sarah was probably already on her way out of the country, and here I was trying to reason with two women who practically thought she was the crimi­nal. But I knew a lost cause when I saw one. 
"Forget about it. I want to see Lou." 
An intern was coming out and I snagged him, announced I was next of kin to a patient, and demanded to be taken through the official door and into the back. At that moment, the stout cop's radio crackled. They were being summoned to a Christopher Street gay bar where somebody had just been knifed in a back room. She looked at me, as though to say, "This sounds like a real crime," and then they hurried out for their squad car. Christ! 
The intern, a young black guy, led me past a row of gurneys and into a private room at the rear of the huge space. Lou was bandaged all around his chest and hooked up to an IV and a monitor. He looked better, but I wasn't sure he'd be ready for what I was about to tell him. 
"Hey, how're you feeling?" I asked as I walked in, trying to seem upbeat. 
She was just a kid. Or near enough. Even I wasn’t willing to go there, at least not yet. 
I picked up the file from Anton and the paper bag of money with stiff hands, and we got out of the car. The alleyway ended at a rusted back door; I led the way up a narrow, dark stairwell that climbed into a dilapidated second-floor loft. The furnishings were basic: mattress in the corner, some boxes with food and water in them, not much else. 
I didn’t comment on the irony of that. 
She swallowed the pills dry and stumbled over to the pallet in the corner. “Where are we?” she slurred, the drugs already kicking in. 
“A safe place,” I said. “I have a few around the city. Keep them stocked, in case I need to lie low.” 
She cocked her head at me for a long moment, smearing her sleeve across her face again, her eyes glazed. “You’re scary.” 
Her frankness took me aback. “You hired me to get you out of all this, remember?” 
“Yeah, I guess,” she mumbled. “I wish...” She was already starting to slump into a doze, her exhaustion combining with the pills. 
Ray sheds the tac helmet and peers at the LCD on the comm. He doesn't recognize the sender's id, and it's just a jumble of digits like a general use machine. For an instant, his heart leaps. Emma! Somehow she's managed to elude her quasi -jailers and wants to meet him somewhere. 
By the way, about your brother... 
But more than likely it's just Kilgore and Rodriguez checking in, feeling sorry for him, inviting him to the  party one last time. 
Ray backs out of the applications he's in and accesses the decryption software. He punches in his key and is informed by the giddy, canned southerner that she doesn't know who the comm is coming from (i.e. that it's a general use comm as he's already surmised) but that the encryption is light, barely above commercial level. 
When the connection is made, all he hears is breathing. Rapid, shallow, with a tremble in the inhalations. 
"This is Marlowe," he says sharply, straight into the unit's pinpoint microphone. Screw the secure headset. 
For another second or two, there's only more breathing. And Ray recognizes the sound— fear, tension. 
Rebecca's hand stirred nervously in her lap and she moved in her seat. "I didn't think I was going to be afraid," she said almost under her breath; "but I guess I am, just a little mite—when you say it's coming so near." 
"Would you go back?" asked Mr. Cobb curiously. 
She flashed him an intrepid look and then said proudly, "I'd never go back—I might be frightened, but I'd be ashamed to run. Going to aunt Mirandy's is like going down cellar in the dark. There might be ogres and giants under the stairs,—but, as I tell Hannah, there MIGHT be elves and fairies and enchanted frogs!—Is there a main street to the village, like that in Wareham?" 
"I s'pose you might call it a main street, an' your aunt Sawyer lives on it, but there ain't no stores nor mills, an' it's an awful one-horse village! You have to go 'cross the river an' get on to our side if you want to see anything goin' on." 
"I'm almost sorry," she sighed, "because it would be so grand to drive down a real main street, sitting high up like this behind two splendid horses, with my pink sunshade up, and everybody in town wondering who the bunch of lilacs and the hair trunk belongs to. It would be just like the beautiful lady in the parade. Last summer the circus came to Temperance, and they had a procession in the morning. Mother let us all walk in and wheel Mira in the baby carriage, because we couldn't afford to go to the circus in the afternoon. And there were lovely horses and animals in cages, and clowns on horseback; and at the very end came a little red and gold chariot drawn by two ponies, and in it, sitting on a velvet cushion, was the snake charmer, all dressed in satin and spangles. She was so beautiful beyond compare, Mr. Cobb, that you had to swallow lumps in your throat when you looked at her, and little cold feelings crept up and down your back. Don't you know how I mean? Didn't you ever see anybody that made you feel like that?" 
But what could I do anyway? Unless Checker came up with another approach, I’d run out of leads to chase down. 
Everything had been taken out of my hands. I had no responsibility here. Face it, you’re only clinging to this job because you want something to cling to. 
It was probably true. 
That was it, then. I was done. 
Fuck that noise, said something deep in the back of my brain. You’re not done. Arthur asked for your help—stop whining and help. 
I winced. 
I’d go back to Checker’s. Whatever he was working on to track the explosives expert or the Lancer, I could probably be valuable. I could even grit my teeth and tolerate it if Pilar took the intel to the NSA afterward—the important part was that someone would find Halliday. Or maybe we’d discover enough for me to go out after her again myself, once I’d regained a little energy. That would be a far more preferable course of events. 
It was better for me to have something to focus on, anyway. 
I pushed myself up off the pile of mats, using a set of metal shelves for support. After a clumsy and crude cleanup job, I limped to the back door and shouldered it open. 
“Not so fast, Cas Russell,” Checker crowed. “You gave me a photo! Do you have any idea what I can do with a photo? If she doesn’t show up in a DMV photo, or a passport photo, or on a private security ID or a student ID or in a high school yearbook photo—well, it doesn’t matter, because as we speak I am tracking her from your meet.” He gave me another manic grin. “See? You can never disappear from me!” And then, God help me, he threw back his head and gave a textbook evil laugh. 
“You’re a maniac,” Tresting said with affection. 
“Really?” Checker was still grinning. “What gave it away?” 
To be honest, I was getting slightly uncomfortable with the knowledge the little hacker had my photograph and voiceprint now, but there wasn’t much I could do about it. I tried to stay focused on the case. “Okay. What can we do in the meantime?” 
Tresting stretched, yawning. “Wait and get some sleep? Unless you know of anything else we can pursue.” 
I thought of Dawna’s humiliating ability to get into my head. I thought of the men in dark suits at Courtney Polk’s house. I thought of Anton’s workshop erupting into flames, the heat searing my skin. 
P. S. Now do you believe me? R. Randall. 
The effect of this piece of doggerel was entirely convincing, and for days afterwards whenever Minnie met the Simpsons even a mile from the brick house she shuddered and held her peace. 
On the very next Friday after this "dreadfullest fight that ever was seen," as Bunyan says in Pilgrim's Progress, there were great doings in the little schoolhouse on the hill. 
Friday afternoon was always the time chosen for dialogues, songs, and recitations, but it cannot be stated that it was a gala day in any true sense of the word. Most of the children hated "speaking pieces;" hated the burden of learning them, dreaded the danger of breaking down in them. Miss Dearborn commonly went home with a headache, and never left her bed during the rest of the afternoon or evening; and the casual female parent who attended the exercises sat on a front bench with beads of cold sweat on her forehead, listening to the all-too-familiar halts and stammers. Sometimes a bellowing infant who had clean forgotten his verse would cast himself bodily on the maternal bosom and be borne out into the open air, where he was sometimes kissed and occasionally spanked; but in any case the failure added an extra dash of gloom and dread to the occasion. 
Lawrence lost his smile. "I hadn't told you that part yet, had I?" 
"No." Randy leaned forward. "But you will now." 
The blue silk ribbons slid through Lawrence's mental fingers as he sat in his cell, which was barely lit and tiny and padded and utterly devoid of furniture. High above him, a ring of glittering red LEDs cast no visible light. They would be infrared lights, the better for the hidden cameras to see him. It was dark, so he saw nothing, but for the infrared cameras, it might as well have been broad daylight. The asymmetry was one of the things he inscribed on a blue ribbon and floated away. 
The cell wasn't perfectly soundproof. There was a gaseous hiss that reverberated through it every forty six to fifty three breaths, which he assumed was the regular opening and shutting of the heavy door that led to the cell-block deep within the Securitat building. That would be a patrol, or a regular report, or someone with a weak bladder. 
There was a softer, regular grinding that he felt more than heard -- a subway train, running very regular. That was the New York rumble, and it felt a little like his pan's reassuring purring. 
It emerges from the plastic chaos of the pool, with a howl that has become laughter as fierce as bloodied spears. 
It is three full meters tall; its naked foot and splayed toes as wide as a man's chest. It has fingers like daggers with long, pointed nails. Completely black, skin and eyes and tongue, immense in dimension, radiating menace or raw, elemental power like a shout of warning. 
But it's more complicated than that. Ray has the distinct impression that he's seeing with two sets of eyes, the  sense of viewing two images, one placed over the other. The first is this massive, impossible humanoid form. 
Behind it is something else. A thing of long, slick, tapering torso, bulbous head, rings of eye slits that peer in all directions at once. Gelatinous in consistency, sprouting tentacular arms like obscene appendages, sucking air through fine, quivering epicanthal folds. 
He blinks at it, trying to correct his vision that will not clear. 
Holcomb's voice comes from the speaker in Ray's ear, cool and clinical. "He's summoned it, the Devourer. 
"It takes so little to make you feel like a fool, Emma Jane," rebuked Rebecca, "that sometimes I think that you must BE one I don't get to feeling like a fool so awfully easy; now leave out that eating part if you don't like it, and go on." 
"The Snow-White is probably the most remarkable laundry soap ever manufactured. Immerse the garments in a tub, lightly rubbing the more soiled portions with the soap; leave them submerged in water from sunset to sunrise, and then the youngest baby can wash them without the slightest effort." 
"BABE, not baby," corrected Rebecca from the circular. 
"It's just the same thing," argued Emma Jane. 
"Of course it's just the same THING; but a baby has got to be called babe or infant in a circular, the same as it is in poetry! Would you rather say infant?" 
"No," grumbled Emma Jane; "infant is worse even than babe. Rebecca, do you think we'd better do as the circular says, and let Elijah or Elisha try the soap before we begin selling?" 
"I can't imagine a babe doing a family wash with ANY soap," answered Rebecca; "but it must be true or they would never dare to print it, so don't let's bother. Oh! won't it be the greatest fun, Emma Jane? At some of the houses—where they can't possibly know me—I shan't be frightened, and I shall reel off the whole rigmarole, invalid, babe, and all. Perhaps I shall say even the last sentence, if I can remember it: 'We sound every chord in the great mac-ro-cosm of satisfaction." 
Jane lay anxiously and restlessly in bed with a feverish headache, wondering how her sister could manage without her. 
Miranda walked stiffly through the dining-room, tying a shawl over her head to keep the draughts away, intending to start the breakfast fire and then call Rebecca down, set her to work, and tell her, meanwhile, a few plain facts concerning the proper way of representing the family at a missionary meeting. 
She opened the kitchen door and stared vaguely about her, wondering whether she had strayed into the wrong house by mistake. 
The shades were up, and there was a roaring fire in the stove; the teakettle was singing and bubbling as it sent out a cloud of steam, and pushed over its capacious nose was a half sheet of note paper with "Compliments of Rebecca"...  out in a...  process were standing near. The cold potatoes and corned beef were in the wooden tray, and "Regards of Rebecca" stuck on the chopping knife. The brown loaf was out, the white loaf was out, the toast rack was out, the doughnuts...  the butter had been brought from the dairy. 
“Certainly!” he said. “Beyond reason lies—unreason.” 
“I don’t mean that,” said Lexy. “I mean—” 
She stopped, because he had abruptly turned away and was walking toward the door. She stood where she was, amazed by this unique rudeness; but in the doorway he turned. 
“The thing beyond reason!” he said, almost in a whisper. Then, with a sudden and complete change of manner, he went on: “It has been very interesting to meet you, Miss Moran. My wife will enjoy a visit from you. Any afternoon, after four o’clock!” He bowed politely. “After four o’clock,” he repeated, and off he went. 
Lexy stood looking at the closed door. 
“Crazy?” she said to herself. “No—that’s not the word for him at all. He’s—he’s just horrible!” 
At half past twelve Captain Grey had not yet returned, and Mrs. Royce declared...  if not eaten at once; so Lexy went down to the dining room and ate her lunch alone. 
The rain was still falling steadily, and the little room was dim, chilly, and, to Lexy, unbearably close. She wasn’t particularly hungry, either, after such a hearty breakfast and no exercise. She felt restless and uneasy. When Mrs. Royce went out into the kitchen to fetch the dessert, she jumped up from the table, crossed the room, and opened the window. 
"You mean to say they've got a boiler-room of midwestern housewives reading the email of everyone who ever got a second look at the border? Sounds like the world's shittiest job." 
"If only. No, this is all untouched by human hands. All your data is fed into a big hopper that checks for 'suspicious patterns' and gradually builds the case against you, using deviation from statistical norms to prove that you're guilty of something . It's just a variation of the way we spot search-spammers" -- the "optimizers" who tried to get their Viagra scams and Ponzi schemes to come to the top of the search results "-- but instead of lowering your search rank, we increase your probability of being sent to Syria. And of course, they google all of us , everyone who works on anything 'sensitive.'" 
"Naturally," Greg said. He felt like he was going to throw up. He felt like never using a search engine again. "How the hell did this happen ? It's such a good place. 'Don't be evil,' right?" That was the corporate motto, and for Greg, it had been a huge part of his reason for taking his fresh-minted computer science PhD from Stanford directly to Google. 
The woman from the city wasn’t so fat anymore, but she still had her armor on. She was the one who’d told father he had to go to the war. She didn’t seem to recognize Valentine, though. 
She stared at Valentine. “I’m busy,” she said. 
“I know a—” Valentine searched for the word. “A profiteer who has access to hardened logic that the infowar doesn’t work against.” 
The woman from the city looked at her a little longer this time. “I’m very busy, little girl.” 
“I can bring you to him. He has working printers.” 
The woman pretended not to hear her. She stared down at a pile of papers in front of her, and it was clear to Valentine that she was only pretending to read them. 
Valentine led Trover to the woman’s desk and knocked all the papers off of it. 
“It’s illegal to be a profiteer. Don’t you want to at least arrest him?” 
“I’ll arrest you ,” the woman from the city said, grabbing her wrist. Valentine was ready for this. Her mother had taught her what to do about this. She bent the woman’s thumb back and squeezed it until she tumbled out of the chair and dropped to her knees. 
If this lawyer couldn’t handle what I looked like, she probably wouldn’t do anything for Wilson, anyway. I wrapped a scarf around my neck, got on my bike, and headed out. 
It was a little blue house with an enclosed front porch and a tiny second story just about tall enough for really short dwarves. 
I couldn’t tell if the doorbell actually worked, so I waited a while and knocked for good measure. There wasn’t any mail on the steps like there had been on the satellite image, but if I squashed my face up against the glass storm door I could see mail lying on the floor inside. Junk mail, it looked like, mostly addressed to Res- ident, some of it addressed to Occupant, and one addressed to Mr. Frank Sweeny offering him a one-time deal on car...  was no longer a Resident or Occupant. Maybe she’d moved to that condo on Snelling, or had gone to a nursing home. Maybe she was lying inside, dead, 
surrounded by mountains of junk mail. That happened to old people sometimes. I remembered a Buzzfeed story about a man who died in a house so full of trash they could hardly get the door open to get his smelly body out. 
“She’s a little young for rum, Ana,” the wizard said. He sat down on one of his curvy sofas and it embraced him and unfurled a foot-rest. 
“I’ll have rum,” she said. She was dying, and she wouldn’t die without at least having one drink, once. 
“Good girl,” Ana said. “There’s a war on, after all.” She poured a liquid with the consistency of mud into a tall mug and then added a glug or two of rum and pushed it across the counter then fixed one for herself. “Come and get it, no waitress service here.” 
Valentine took off her too-small shoes and walked over the carpet in her dirty bare feet. It felt like something she barely remembered. Grass? 
The chocolate smelled wonderful. Wonderful was the word for it. It made her full of wonder. Rich. Something from another planet—from heaven, maybe. 
She lifted the mug and felt its warmth seep into her hands. She took a tentative sip and held it in her mouth. 
It was spicy! Was chocolate spicy? She didn’t think so! The rum made her tongue tingle and the heat made its fumes rise in her head, carrying up the chocolate taste and the peppers. Her eyes streamed. Her ears felt like they were full of chocolate. 
She smiled a little prim smile, which had to be her ice-queen equivalent of a touchdown dance, and the guards led me away. As the door closed, I saw her bend down over the phone and key the password in. 
I wish I could say that I'd anticipated this possibility in advance and created a fake password that unlocked a completely innocuous partition on my phone, but I wasn't nearly that paranoid/clever. 
You might be wondering at this point what dark secrets I had locked away on my phone and memory sticks and email. I'm just a kid, after all. 
The truth is that I had everything to hide, and nothing. Between my phone and my memory sticks, you could get a pretty good idea of who my friends were, what I thought of them, all the goofy things we'd done. You could read the transcripts of the electronic arguments we'd carried out and the electronic reconciliations we'd arrived at. 
You see, I don't delete stuff. Why would I? Storage is cheap, and you never know when you're going to want to go back to that stuff. Especially the stupid stuff. You know that feeling you get sometimes where you're sitting on the subway and there's no one to talk to and you suddenly remember some bitter fight you had, some terrible thing you said? Well, it's usually never as bad as you remember. Being able to go back and see it again is a great way to remind yourself that you're not as horrible a person as you think you are. Darryl and I have gotten over more fights that way than I can count. 
and copied it to a USB drive. As she downloaded it to her Mac, 
I filled her in on what had happened and the meeting that was scheduled for noon today. “I have to get back there and film what happens.” 
“Are you sure?” she said. “They’ll send experienced federal agents. They won’t be as easy to fool.” 
“I’ll go early and explain to Marita and Danny that they’re being set up. Then we can plan how to handle whoever the FBI sends. If I get the meeting on tape — ” 
“You’ll be in the room with them?” 
“I’ll tell the FBI guys I want to be in on it. You know, for my brother’s sake.” 
“What if they arrest you and the recording you make of today’s meet is destroyed?” 
“That would totally suck.” I felt exhausted, suddenly, and embarrassed. I wanted to go home to my little sleeping nook, pull the covers over my head, and sleep forever. “I guess it’s a dumb idea.” 
“It’s a genius idea, but look at this footage.” She played some of it. “Not bad for a lens the size of a shirt button, but for today’s meeting? We need a better camera. Give me a few minutes to pack my stuff and we’ll go.” 
Adam thought, when he had put her on the train and taken his leave, that Rebecca was, in her sad dignity and gravity, more beautiful than he had ever seen her,—all-beautiful and all-womanly. But in that moment's speech with her he had looked into her eyes and they were still those of a child; there was no knowledge of the world in their shining depths, no experience of men or women, no passion, nor comprehension of it. He turned from the little country station to walk in the woods by the wayside until his own train should be leaving, and from time to time he threw himself under a tree to think and dream and look at the glory of the foliage. 
He had brought a new copy of The Arabian Nights for Rebecca, wishing to replace the well-worn old one that had been the delight of her girlhood; but meeting her at such an inauspicious time, he had absently carried it away with him. He turned the pages idly until he came to the story of Aladdin and the Wonderful Lamp, and presently, in spite of his thirty-four years, the old tale held him spellbound as it did in the days when he first read it as a boy. But there were certain paragraphs that especially caught his eye and arrested his attention,—paragraphs that he read and reread, finding in them he knew not what secret delight and significance. 
"Why?" Lee-Daniel said. 
"They'll ruin us!" the Series B man said. 
"They'll ruin you ." Lee-Daniel said. "There go the satellite uplinks. Wow. Good retirement benefit." 
"What do you want?" the Series A man asked. 
"Sell me your stake. He sells Mac his stake. The paperwork's inside, on the fax machine." 
"You're joking," the Series A man said. 
"That's the deal," Lee-Daniel said. "And I don't see anyone offering anything better." 
There was a tinkle from the bus and Joey Riel sped away with a stack of optical switches, off into the night, staggering slightly from the burden and the booze. 
"I need to call the partners," the Series A man said. 
"You have fifteen minutes. Better not take much longer," Lee-Daniel said, as an expensive crash resounded from the direction whence Joey Riel had gone. 
"Fifteen minutes?" the Series B man said, whitening. 
"You want several weeks?" Lee-Daniel said. He wiped his palms on his thighs and kept his grin off his face. It'd be good to get back in the driver's seat. 
“Yeah, what’s the deal with that? Arthur, he—he left me like seven messages about it—” 
“He did, did he?” I looked up from the phone conversation to glare at Arthur. “Tresting, really? No wonder he didn’t call you back.” 
“What?” demanded Arthur, all innocence. 
“She really did a bad job on you if you’re coming off that programmed.” I talked back into the phone, explaining to Checker. “Dawna tried to convince him it was meaningless, but I got a source says Pithica’s still trying to recover it. I think it might be important. Did you crack it?” 
“Yeah, a few days ago; it’s mostly numbers. What do you mean, she programmed Arthur? How bad is he? Is he going to be okay?” 
“He’s, uh—well, I’m not an expert or anything.” I tried to figure out how to answer. “I think she only influenced him with regards to this case. He seems as annoying as usual otherwise. I think maybe just don’t trust anything he says about Pithica, and if she doesn’t get a chance at him again...” 
“You really think he’ll be all right?” His voice sounded tinny over the line. “He’ll be—back to himself?” 
Amah stands in the doorway, leaning on the lintel, tattooed and hideous. She's not any easier to look at the second time around. "I didn't mean to get them excited right before bed." 
"Precocious children need very little excuse to excite themselves in my experience, but it wasn't poorly attempted, Mr. Marlowe. Merely a poor execution. You haven't spent much time around children I take it." 
"Just my brother, ma'am." Probably not the best source of precedent. 
"Your brother must be longsuffering." 
"Longsuffering or dimwitted. I was never certain which. " 
She ventures into the room, picking her way around the rows of desks until she's standing nearer to them. 
She's taller than he expected, almost as tall as he is. Her bulk is not fat, her body not neglected, but wide and sinewy, strong. 
Amah frowns at him. "I regret the tone of our last meeting. Our first meeting, perhaps I should say. I was not as gracious as perhaps I should have been with you." 
"I gave you plenty of reasons to be suspicious. Don't worry about it." 
I remembered Alex Goddard wanted me to go to a "clinic" he had somewhere in Central America. Ten to one that clinic was in Guatemala. That was what this whole thing was about. And now he'd just gone back there; at least that was what he'd said. 
Guatemala was a long way off, but his other operation was right up the river. I hadn't seen all of it this morning, but that was about to change. A lot of things were about to change. It was time to start getting the playing field level again. 
I arranged with Patrick Mooney to have his sister in Queens, a full-figured woman named Rosalyn, come in and finish the job of reconstructing my wrecked home. She ar­rived an hour and a half later, and was hard at work when I left. I also agonized over the police-report issue, but finally decided to forgo the bother. Lou was right: It would be a two-hour ordeal of futility. Besides, I had better things to do with my time. I was going to return the favor of an infor­mation-gathering expedition. 
Alex Goddard had said he'd be absent from Quetzal Manor—who knows for how long—and this time around I was going to do the place right, the next step in my under­cover research. The first, and main, thing I wanted to do was explore the new high-tech clinic that sat nestled in the woods across from the old building. Everything about it was the exact opposite of a "Manor." Not a shred of New Age "spiri­tuality," just a lot of digital equipment and ultrasound and . . . what else? Chief among my questions: What was behind that big, white door? 
“Isn’t there some other way you could get the stuff?” Simon asked him. 
“When my uncle was in business, would have been easy.” He reached for another beer and twisted the cap off. 
“Yeah, right. You’re all talk.” 
Danny scowled at him. “It’s not that easy, yo. You can’t just walk into Hardware Hank and ask for it. Stuff’s regulated.” 
“What if I could get it?” 
“Yeah, sure.” Danny drank deeply. 
“For real,” Simon said. “I have a connection.” 
“A connection, wow.” Danny laughed like it was the punch- line of a joke, but Simon didn’t join in. 
“Write down what you need. I’ll get it.” 
Danny looked at him, the smile fading. This time, he was the one being tested. 
That’s when I finally realized Danny wasn’t working for the FBI. Simon was. 
H e could have been recruited ages ago. The cops might have pulled Simon in on a drug charge, then realized that he was part of the same scene as local activists, old enough for the job, 
and easily jammed up because he paid his rent by selling weed to his friends. Given a choice between jail and helping them stage some security theatre, I knew which one Simon would choose. 
"I can't believe you're making me undress," she said to the bull, a tough old gal named Elana with a Brooklyn accent like you hardly got any more. Gina and Elana went way back. 
"Just be thankful I don't have to give you a cavity search," Elana said, handing over the paper coveralls. "You'll look real cute in these anyway, Gina." She turned her back and waited until Gina was done, then led her into the FfMRI machine. "You don't got any metal in you, do you? Maybe gunpowder residue? A pin or artificial hip?" 
"No," Gina said, lying down on the belt. 
"You sure?" 
"Pretty sure," Gina said. "I think I'd know." 
"Well, we're about to find out," Elana said, and hit the button that started the belt moving. The FfMRI digested Gina and shat her out again with slow wheezing mechanical jerks, like being swallowed by an arthritic python, and then Elana helped her to her feet. "You want a printout? Makes a good souvenir." 
"I'll pass," Gina said, and let Elana show...  wherein rested her client, one Annalisa Mor, a desperate botmaster of unknown mettle and guilt. 
Martinez plopped herself down in a chair across from me, and the goons chained her in, just as they had done to me. She managed to sit in the manacles primly, somehow, as if she were about to take tea and cakes. 
My muscles were responding now, a little bit, though twitching my fingers still felt like I was pushing through glue. 
The clack, clack, clack approached my shoulder, and I felt the Lancer lean on the chair behind me. “Last chance,” he said. “You really don’t want us to touch her?” 
I knew what was coming. I could take it, I hoped. As long as it bought us time. 
Arthur will be coming. He will. 
“You give her a heart attack, you’ll never get your proof.” My tongue was still thick and languid in my mouth, but the words had enough shape to make sense. 
“Can I tell you a secret?” He leaned close, his breath hot on my ear. “I doubt you’ll be a very good incentive. But I don’t really care.” He pushed off and walked away. 
Yeah. I’d pissed him off. Big time. 
And it wasn’t going to work out so well for me. 
"That niece of yours is the most remarkable girl I have seen in years," said Mr. Burch when the door closed. 
"She seems to be turnin' out smart enough lately, but she's consid'able heedless," answered Miranda, "an' most too lively." 
"We must remember that it is deficient, not excessive vitality, that makes the greatest trouble in this world," returned Mr. Burch. 
"She'd make a wonderful missionary," said Mrs. Burch; "with her voice, and her magnetism, and her gift of language." 
"If I was to say which of the two she was best adapted for, I'd say she'd make a better heathen," remarked Miranda curtly. 
"My sister don't believe in flattering children," hastily interpolated Jane, glancing toward Mrs. Burch, who seemed somewhat shocked, and was about to open her lips to ask if Rebecca was not a "professor." 
Mrs. Cobb had been looking for this question all the evening and dreading some allusion to her favorite as gifted in prayer. She had taken an instantaneous and illogical dislike to the Rev. Mr. Burch in the afternoon because he called upon Rebecca to "lead." She had seen the pallor creep into the girl's face, the hunted look in her eyes, and the trembling of the lashes on her cheeks, and realized the ordeal through which she was passing. Her prejudice against the minister had relaxed under his genial talk and presence, but feeling that Mrs. Burch was about to tread on dangerous ground, she hastily asked her if one had to change cars many times going from Riverboro to Syria. She felt that it was not a particularly appropriate question, but it served her turn. 
The good ship “Spirit of Freedom” is the model for the “Spirit of Freedom,” the ship in this tale. As far as I know, neither it nor its ship’s boats are sentient. 
If I return to this theme, it will be with a story about uplifted cheese sandwiches, called “I, Rarebit.” 
Robbie the Row-Boat’s great crisis of faith came when the coral reef woke up. 
“Fuck off,” the reef said, vibrating Robbie’s hull through the slap-slap of the waves of the coral sea, where he’d plied his trade for decades. “Seriously. This is our patch, and you’re not welcome.” 
Robbie shipped oars and let the current rock him back toward the ship. He’d never met a sentient reef before, but he wasn’t surprised to see that Osprey Reef was the first to wake up. There’d been a lot of electromagnetic activity around there the last few times the big ship had steamed through the night to moor up here. 
“I’ve got a job to do, and I’m going to do it,” Robbie said, and dipped his oars back in the salt sea. In his gunwales, the human-shells rode in silence, weighted down with scuba apparatus and fins, turning their brown faces to the sun like heliotropic flowers. Robbie felt a wave of affection for them as they tested one-another’s spare regulators and weight belts, the old rituals worn as smooth as beach-glass. 
"Hello, Marcus?" she snapped her fingers in front of my face. "Over here, Marcus." There was a little smile on her face and I hated myself for letting her see my fear. "Marcus, it can be a lot worse than this. This isn't the worst place we can put you, not by a damned sight." She reached down below the table and came out with a briefcase, which she snapped open. From it, she withdrew my phone, my arphid sniper/cloner, my wifinder, and my memory keys. She set them down on the table one after the other. 
"Here's what we want from you. You unlock the phone for us today. If you do that, you'll get outdoor and bathing privileges. You'll get a shower and you'll be allowed to walk around in the exercise yard. Tomorrow, we'll bring you back and ask you to decrypt the data on these memory sticks. Do that, and you'll get to eat in the mess hall. The day after, we're going to want your email passwords, and that will get you library privileges." 
The word "no" was on my lips, like a burp trying to come up, but it wouldn't come. "Why?" is what came out instead. 
He’d never switched off the kid’s phone-bug, and now he was able to haul out the UNATS Robotics computer and dump it all into a log-analysis program along with Ada’s logs, see if the two of them had been spending much time in the same place. 
They had. They’d been physically meeting up weekly or more frequently, at the Peanut Plaza and in the ravine. Arturo had suspected as much. Now he checked Liam’s bug—if the kid wasn’t with his daughter, he might know where she was. 
It was a Friday night, and the kid was at the movies, at Fairview Mall. He’d sat down in auditorium two half an hours ago, and had gotten up to pee once already. Arturo slipped the toy soldiers into the pocket of his winter parka and pulled on a hat and gloves and set off for the mall. 
The stink of the smellie movie clogged his nose, a cacophony of blood, gore, perfume and flowers, the only smells that Hollywood ever really perfected. Liam was kissing a girl in the dark, but it wasn’t Ada, it was a sad, skinny thing with a lazy eye and skin worse than Liam’s. She gawked at Arturo as he hauled Liam out of his seat, but a flash of Arturo’s badge shut her up. 
“I’m aware of that,” she said with a good dose of sarcasm. “Do you need medical attention?” 
“Not from you,” I said. 
“I wasn’t talking to you.” It was dawning on me that she was pissed. Nice. “We’ll have EMS check you out,” she continued to Halliday. 
“I—I think I’m fine—” 
“Nevertheless.” 
“Arthur!” said Halliday. 
I looked. Arthur had pushed through the crowds of troops and was jogging toward us. Damn. I’d almost shot him. 
“Go,” I said to Halliday. I avoided looking toward Arthur myself. Best not to let the government know I was connected with him in any way, if I could help it. 
Apparently only having been waiting for someone to tell her it was okay, Halliday took off at a hobbling run for her friend. 
“You don’t have any authority here, you know,” said the DHS agent from above me. 
“I don’t see why not,” I said. I was still sitting on the ground, but whatever. “Considering I did your jobs for you and all.” 
“Did our—we were trying to catch the Lancer! Put him and his men behind bars. Contain the proof. Do you have any idea what you’ve done here?” 
Dr. Martinez had struggled with whether to share her new knowledge with the world. It made sense that she’d at least used it to spread other knowledge, even if she’d destroyed the programs she’d used to do it. 
Destroyed. And Martinez herself dead. If she had ever had the proof, it was gone with her, a state functionally equivalent to one in which she’d never discovered it at all. 
Even if her result was true, I would never be able to replicate it myself, and without it, I was stuck. Forever. Locked in a place bare of mathematical intuition. An idiot savant missing the one skill that counted. 
Halliday stood. “I’m going to send the PDE proofs around. Maybe she stole them, too, and someone will take credit. Or maybe she just wanted to make a point, to prove something, by learning the field herself.” 
Prove something. It sounded so simple, for something so entirely out of reach. 
I went to see Checker a few days after Martinez’s funeral. I’d spent most of the last couple weeks asleep on the good pills, until the black market prescription drugs Dr. Washington had given me had run out. My hands still got twitchy every so often, but less every day. 
"That's some scene, huh, boss?" Lee-Daniel remarked as he stepped into the cool night, sucking up the fresh air and the moonlight. 
"What'd you tell them?" the Series A man said. 
"Tell them?" he said. 
"They think they're all fired," MacDiarmid said. "Why do they think that?" 
"Just road-crazies. Like when they thought they all had West Nile. They get worked up. Egomaniacs and social retards." He was speaking in the grudging half-sentences that Cobra had preferred. Talking like that made him feel crazy and brave and alien. 
"What are you going to do about it?" the Series B man said. 
"Nothing," Lee-Daniel said. 
There was a crash from the bus. One of the surveyors had beaten in the safety-glass skylight and dropped down inside. They watched a headlamp's beam jump crazily around the bus's interior, high, low, left, right. 
"What's he doing?" the Series A man said. Lee-Daniel knew that the surveyor in the bus snored, that he did tricks with a butterfly knife, that he sent money home to his little sister in Muncie. He couldn't remember his names. He was no good with names. But he knew his people. 
So when I found out I wasn’t as strong and tough as she thought and I wasn’t going to survive if I didn’t get out, I thought of her. Moving in with Wilson wasn’t an option. The house he was living in at the time was total chaos and his sketchier friends were always getting drunk and hitting on me. There were shelters for homeless teens, but they didn’t have enough beds and would make me go back to that giant house in the suburbs. I knew Mon- ica didn’t have any money and it wasn’t fair to ask her to put me up, but it seemed like the only solution. 
When I showed up at her door that night and asked if I could stay, she said yes because she’s like that. She set aside all the class prep she was supposed to get done that night to ask me what was going on and whether I was all right. Then she called Wilson’s stepdad to explain the situation so that I wouldn’t have to talk to him. (I was sitting in a corner of the bathroom while she did that, 
with my arms wrapped around my head so I wouldn’t hear any of it. I was kind of a mess that night.) She was renting a studio apart- ment at the time, one that was not much bigger than a medium- sized doghouse, but she borrowed an air mattress and sleeping bag from a friend, probably thinking it would only be for a few days. 
This story originally appeared in Baen’s Universe Magazine, an admirable, high-quality online magazine edited by Eric Flint, himself a talented writer and a passionate advocate for open and free culture. 
Listeners to my podcast heard this story as it was written, read aloud in serial chinks after each composing session. The pressure of listeners writing in, demanding to know what happened next, kept me honest and writing. 
When Felix’s special phone rang at two in the morning, Kelly rolled over and punched him in the shoulder and hissed, “Why didn’t you turn that fucking thing off before bed?” 
“Because I’m on call,” he said. 
“You’re not a fucking doctor,” she said, kicking him as he sat on the bed’s edge, pulling on the pants he’d left on the floor before turning in. “You’re a goddamned systems administrator .” 
“It’s my job,” he said. 
“They work you like a government mule,” she said. “You know I’m right. For Christ’s sake, you’re a father now, you can’t go running off in the middle of the night every time someone’s porn supply goes down. Don’t answer that phone.” 
"I do so, John Robert." 
"Do not." 
"Yeah-huh." 
"He only kisses her 'cause her dad would have him put in prison if he blasted her. " A different boy this time, 
looking very thoughtful about his contribution to the discussion. 
But John Robert shakes his head. "Why would he care about that? He knows how to escape from the prison. 
Remember when Carok made that clone of King Tayne and kidnapped him? The clone put Shadow in the prison and he was only there for about five minutes before he escaped." 
It goes on. On and on, for almost fifteen minutes while the episode they had intended to watch clamors on in the background, unnoticed. Ray pitches in where he can get a word, not certain whether he's inciting them or settling some of the more finely nuanced points of contention. He attempts to argue the pro-kissing position, 
but it's a difficult sell with this audience. The consensus opinion seems to be that most soldiers would rather blast girls than kiss them. He's on the verge of offering some intimate anecdotal evidence to the contrary, but Emma gives him a sharp jab to the ribs with her elbow before he can get properly started. 
“This is Simon Meyer we’re talking about, right?” 
“Okay, Simon is kind of dumb, but he’s a good actor, too. Peo- ple think he’s a radical activist just because he learned his lines and he’s confident and outgoing.” 
“He has charisma, no doubt, but so do I. It’ll be a duel, 
charisma at twenty paces.” 
Nikko had a point. He was Simon Meyer’s match in the charm and confidence department, and he had a ton of friends. If it was me in that duel, Simon would win hands down, but in a Nikko versus Simon fight, Nikko at least had an even chance of com- ing out ahead. Then again, Simon had the advantage of having no morals. 
“He’s unscrupulous. He attacks women and is used to getting away with it. If you got him in a corner, he could hurt you.” 
“So long as he doesn’t figure out what’s going on, I should be fine. How do we get things on the record once the FBI gets involved? They’ll want me to wear a wire or whatever they actually use these days, but I doubt they’ll let me record the conversations we have, and what they say to me will be important, right?” 
“What’s up?” 
“Two blokes just showed up and told me to piss off. They’re noobs, though. Should I kill them?” 
“No! Jeez, Anda, those are the contacts. They’re just making sure the job was done. Get my stuff and meet me at Marionettes Tavern, OK?” 
Anda went over to Lucy’s corpse and looted it, then set out down the road, dragging the BFG behind her. She stopped at the bend in the road and snuck a peek back at the cottage. It was in flames, the two noobs standing amid them, burning slowly along with the cottage and a few thousand golds’ worth of badly crafted shirts. 
That was the first of Anda and Lucy’s missions, but it wasn’t the last. That month, she fought her way through six more, and the paypal she used filled with real, honest-to-goodness cash, Pounds Sterling that she could withdraw from the cashpoint situated exactly 501 meters away from the schoolgate, next to the candy shop that was likewise 501 meters away. 
“Anda, I don’t think it’s healthy for you to spend so much time with your game,” her da said, prodding her bulging podge with a finger. “It’s not healthy.” 
“Oh, Da,” she said. He held up his hand. 
“It’s all right, girl. We’re just proud of you.” 
She didn’t touch the PC the first day, nor the second. The kids in the game—she didn’t know what to do about them. On the third day, after hockey, she showered and changed and sat down and slipped the headset on. 
“Hello, Anda.” 
“Hi, Sarge.” 
Lucy had known the minute she entered the game, which meant that she was still on Lucy’s buddy-list. Well, that was a hopeful sign. 
“You don’t have to call me that. We’re the same rank now, after all.” 
Anda pulled down a menu and confirmed it: she’d been promoted to Sergeant during her absence. She smiled. 
“Gosh,” she said. 
“Yes, well, you earned it,” Lucy said. “I’ve been talking to Raymond a lot about the working conditions in the factory, and, well—” She broke off. “I’m sorry, Anda.” 
“Me too, Lucy.” 
“You don’t have anything to be sorry about,” she said. 
They went adventuring, running some of the game’s standard missions together. It was fun, but after the kind of campaigning they’d done before, it was also kind of pale and flat. 
But there was no easy way to touch the money at its most concentrated, purest form. It was like a theoretical superdense element from the first instant of the universe's creation, money so dense it stopped acting like money; money so dense it changed state when you chipped a piece of it off. 
Leon's predecessors had been shrewd and clever. They had walked the length and breadth of the problem space of providing services and products to a person who was money who was a state who was a vat. Many of the nicer grace-notes in the office came from those failed pitches -- the business with the lights and the air, for example. 
Leon had a good education, the kind that came with the mathematics of multidimensional space. He kept throwing axes at his chart of the failed inventions of Ate, Inc., mapping out the many ways in which they were similar and dissimilar. The pattern that emerged was easy to understand. 
They'd tried everything . 
Brautigan's whinny was the most humiliating sound Leon had ever heard, in all his working life. 
“Even if I’m not properly satisfied,” he answered, “what can I do? In her husband’s house, you know—I can’t make a row.” 
“Why can’t you?” 
He looked at her, startled and uneasy. Her question was ridiculous. Why couldn’t he make a row? Simply because he couldn’t; because he wasn’t that sort; because it wasn’t done; because almost anything was preferable to making a row. 
“Of course, if you have a blind faith in Dr. Quelton—” she persisted. 
“Well, I haven’t,” he admitted; “but—” 
“Then let’s go upstairs and see her. The doctor has gone out.” 
“But the nurse—” 
“Put on your best commanding officer’s air,” said Lexy. “You can be awfully impressive when you like. If I were you, there’s nothing I’d stop at.” 
“Yes, but look here—what can I say to Quelton when he hears about it?” 
“Laugh it off,” said Lexy. 
The idea of Captain Grey trying to laugh off anything made her grin from ear to ear. 
“Not much of a joke, though, is it?” he said rather stiffly. “Suppose he hoofs us out of the house?” 
“Captain Grey!” she said again. “If I told you something—something very important—would you believe me?” 
“Yes, yes, of course,” he answered hastily. “Of course, I would always believe you; but I wish you wouldn’t try to talk about anything important just now, you know. Let’s wait a bit, eh?” 
Lexy smiled to herself in the dark—a smile of extraordinary bitterness. He wouldn’t believe her if she told him about Caroline. He would think she was hysterical. She saw quite plainly that by this strange outburst she had lost his confidence. 
She could in no way explain her sudden breaking down. Such a thing had never happened to her before. She could not understand it, but she was in no doubt about the unfortunate consequences of it. She was discredited. 
Lexy sat on the edge of the bed, her hands clasped loosely before her, her bright head bent, her eyes fixed somberly upon nothing; and she could see nothing—not one step of the way that lay ahead of her. She could not think what she ought to do next. For the first time in her life, she had a feeling of utter confusion and dismay. 
“What about Kelly?” Van said. 
Felix felt like he was going to throw up. “We should get into the cage, now.” The cage had microparticulate air-filters. 
They ran upstairs to the big cage. Felix opened the door and then let it hiss shut behind him. 
“Felix, you need to get home—” 
“It’s a bioweapon,” Felix said. “Superbug. We’ll be OK in here, I think, so long as the filters hold out.” 
“What?” 
“Get on IRC,” he said. 
They did. Van had Mayor McCheese and Felix used Smurfette. They skipped around the chat channels until they found one with some familiar handles. 
Felix typed: I’m in Toronto. We just saw the CN Tower fall. I’ve heard reports of bioweapons, something very fast. 
Van read this and said, “You don’t know how fast it is, Felix. Maybe we were all exposed three days ago.” 
Felix closed his eyes. “If that were so we’d be feeling some symptoms, I think.” 
› You’re in Toronto? 
It was an unfamiliar handle. 
› my sisters at UofT and i cnt reach her—can you call her? 
Felix typed, staring at NETWORK PROBLEMS. 
“Hello, Tonker.” 
“Where’s Kate? I’m getting an offline signal when I try to reach her.” 
Robbie told him. 
Tonker’s voice—slurred and high-latency—rose to a screech. “You let her go down with that thing , onto the reef? Are you nuts? Have you read its message-boards? It’s a jihadist! It wants to destroy the human race!” 
Robbie stopped paddling. 
“What?” 
“The reef. It’s declared war on the human race and all who serve it. It’s vowed to take over the planet and run it as sovereign coral territory.” 
The attachment took an eternity to travel down the wire and open up, but when he had it, Robbie read quickly. The reef burned with shame that it had needed human intervention to survive the bleaching events, global temperature change. It raged that its uplifting came at human hands and insisted that humans had no business forcing their version of consciousness on other species. It had paranoid fantasies about control mechanisms and time-bombs lurking in its cognitive prostheses, and was demanding the source-code for its mind. 
He looked straight into her face. 
“You’re playing with me,” he said. “You’re fencing with me, to make me give myself away; and it’s a pretty rotten thing to do!” 
“Rotten?” Lexy repeated indignantly. “Rotten, not to answer questions from a perfect stranger?” 
“Yes,” he said, “it is; because that’s a question you could answer for any one. I’ve only asked you if Miss Enderby is—all right.” 
This high-handed tone didn’t suit Lexy at all. He was actually presuming to be angry, and that made her angry. 
“I shan’t tell you anything at all,” she said, and began to walk on again. 
He put on his hat and turned away, but in a moment he was back at her side. 
“Look here!” he said. “Caroline told me you were her friend. She said you could be trusted. All right—I am trusting you. I’ve felt, all along, that there was—something wrong. I’ve got to know! If you’ll give me your word that she’s safe at home, I’ll clear out, and apologize for having made a first-class fool of myself; but if she’s not, I ought to know!” 
"Prince," answered the Princess, "it is enough for me to have seen you, to tell you that I obey without reluctance." 
When Rebecca alighted from the train at Maplewood and hurried to the post-office where the stage was standing, what was her joy to see uncle Jerry Cobb holding the horses' heads. 
"The reg'lar driver 's sick," he explained, "and when they sent for me, thinks I to myself, my drivin' days is over, but Rebecky won't let the grass grow under her feet when she gits her aunt Jane's letter, and like as not I'll ketch her to-day; or, if she gits delayed, to-morrow for certain. So here I be jest as I was more 'n six year ago. Will you be a real lady passenger, or will ye sit up in front with me?" 
Emotions of various sorts were all struggling together in the old man's face, and the two or three bystanders were astounded when they saw the handsome, stately girl fling herself on Mr. Cobb's dusty shoulder crying like a child. "Oh, uncle Jerry!" she sobbed; "dear uncle Jerry! It's all so long ago, and so much has happened, and we've grown so old, and so much is going to happen that I'm fairly frightened." 
“Wheeze? Are you in there?” 
“I have a knife,” a voice came from the gloom. It was hoarse and ragged. 
“Easy. I’m just looking for a guy named Wheeze. You know him?” 
I listened, fighting an urge to run away, fast, trying not to think about stories Wheeze had told me about creepy guys he’d run into when riding the rails. Small things rustled through the dead leaves. A towboat made a low, mournful hoot out over the water. 
A sound like an animal panting came from inside the shack. Brac- ing for someone to come at me with a knife, I screwed up my courage and leaned in to shine my flashlight into the darkness. A shape huddled in a corner. 
“Zen?” The hoarse voice, that one that had told me he had a knife, sounded doubtful. It also sounded familiar this time. 
We’d found him. 
He was shaking with cold but his skin felt hot to the touch and his eyes looked strange, like he wasn’t quite able to focus. “You got my note?” 
“Yup. You gave us good directions.” I was glad nobody could see in the dark that my cheeks were wet. 
“To know who the hell you are, first of all,” I said. I could feel Tresting’s eyes on me, questioning. “Ten to one the badge is a fake,” I told him. “Now, who are you?” 
“I’m SSA Gabriel Finch,” the man repeated. “I’m here to speak with Dr. Kingsley—” 
“Check him,” I directed Tresting. 
He came forward and patted down the man quickly and efficiently, finding a mobile phone in his pocket and a Glock in a shoulder holster. Glocks. Why did everyone like Glocks? 
“Please,” broke in Leena Kingsley, “What’s going on?” 
Tresting stepped over to her. “I was targeted,” he said in a low aside. “Worried about you and Ned now. He at school still?” 
“Ye—yes.” Kingsley inched closer to Tresting, her posture tense as she regarded my tableau with Finch. “You think he isn’t who he says?” 
“Possible,” said Tresting neutrally, looking at me. 
“I assure you, I am with the Federal Bureau of Investigation,” Finch repeated, much more tranquil than I wanted him to be. “Now if you’ll put down the weapon, I’m sure we can sort this out.” 
"Your son is sick?" Sean said. 
"Not sick, no," Adele said. "You wouldn't believe the roaches you get down here! Old Ross fumigates regular, but Florida roaches don't seem to care. I've lived in New York, and I've seen some pretty big roaches in my day, but not like these. Like cats! My boy, Ethan, he'd clean and clean our apartment in New York, quiet as you please, a good boy. Then he'd see a roach and whim-wham, he'd be talking, joking, skipping and running. Old Ross says there's nothing he can do -- he says, 'Adele, this is Florida , and the roaches were here long before us, and they'll be here long after, and nothing we do is going to keep them away.' That's all fine and good, but let me tell you, I've never seen a roach in the Home when I was visiting Ethan. They know how to keep them out. Maybe it's all the shouting. Lord, but they do shout!" 
A small lightbulb blinked in Sean's mind. "Is Ethan very high-functioning?" he asked, carefully. 
Adele glanced sidelong at him and said, "The doctor says no. But I think he is. He's always walking around when I'm there, doing push-ups and sit-ups. He's not a young man, Ethan -- sixty this year! When his father was that age, he didn't do any push-ups, no sir! But the doctor, he says that Ethan's at zero function. Doctors! What do they know?" 
“Easy there, Pop,” Ada said, taking his hand. “Steady.” He rocked on his heels. “Whoa! Sit down, OK? You don’t look so good.” 
He sat heavily and propped his chin on his hands, his elbows on his knees. 
The room was a middle-class bedroom in a modern apartment block. They were some storeys up, judging from the scrap of unfamiliar skyline visible through the crack in the blinds. The furniture was more Swedish flatpack, the taupe carpet recently vacuumed with robot precision, the nap all laying down in one direction. He patted his pockets and found them empty. 
“Dad, over here, OK?” Ada said, waving her hand before his face. Then it hit him: wherever he was, he was with Ada, and she was OK, albeit with a stupid hairdo. He took her warm little hand and gathered her into his arms, burying his face in her hair. She squirmed at first and then relaxed. 
“Oh, Dad,” she said. 
“I love you, Ada,” he said, giving her one more squeeze. 
“Oh, Dad.” 
He let her get away. He felt a little nauseated, but his headache was receding. Something about the light and the street-sounds told him they weren’t in Toronto anymore, but he didn’t know what—he was soaked in Toronto’s subconscious cues and they were missing. 
"It was kind of a gold net bag with a chain," said Mrs. Perkins, "and there was five ten-dollar gold pieces in it. Herbert Dunn's was put in a fine leather wallet." 
"How long is Rebecca goin' to stay at the farm?" asked Delia. 
"Till they get over Hannah's bein' married, and get the house to runnin' without her," answered Mrs. Perkins. "It seems as if Hannah might 'a' waited a little longer. Aurelia was set against her goin' away while Rebecca was at school, but she's obstinate as a mule, Hannah is, and she just took her own way in spite of her mother. She's been doin' her sewin' for a year; the awfullest coarse cotton cloth she had, but she's nearly blinded herself with fine stitchin' and rufflin' and tuckin'. Did you hear about the quilt she made? It's white, and has a big bunch o' grapes in the centre, quilted by a thimble top. Then there's a row of circle-borderin' round the grapes, and she done them the size of a spool. The next border was done with a sherry glass, and the last with a port glass, an' all outside o' that was solid stitchin' done in straight rows; she's goin' to exhibit it at the county fair." 
I didn’t hear what Martinez said back, because the pain hit. 
I’d been shot before. I’d been beat up before. In my various disreputable past jobs, I’d been blown up by airborne missiles, almost drowned, and fallen off the side of a mountain. 
I’d never been tortured with a fifteen-thousand-volt electric charge before. 
It wasn’t only the pain, although that was unimaginable, an almost out-of-body nerve-shredding bonfire that refused to localize to where they’d thrust the leads against me. But more—each charge ripped through my flesh like it wanted to flay me, rending me apart and tearing me like paper...the world twisted into sick, impossible shapes, stretching until it snapped, and my brain flash-fried and crumbled until it was dust. 
It took me some time to realize they had stopped, the searing burn pulsing through me even after they’d dropped the leads from my skin. My surroundings kept stuttering and hitching, like someone had taken handfuls of frames out of an animation. I was aware of the Lancer talking to Martinez, every third word piling up on the one before like he was a bad collage. 
It was unthinkable that the invisible ants that governed all human endeavor should catastrophically fail, but fail they did, catastrophically, on the occasion of Trish's eighth date with Damian. It took nineteen seconds for the cascade of errors to slow every car on the Interstate to a halt, to light up the dashboard with a grim xmas tree of errors, to still the stereo and freeze the tickers of information and context that they had come to think of as the crawling embodiment of the colony that routed all the traffic that made up their universe. 
"We are going to be: So. Late," Damian said, and Trish swiveled in her seat to look at him. He was Fretting again, his forehead wrinkled and his hands clenched on the steering wheel. When they traded massages (third date) and she'd rubbed at his hands, she'd found them tensed into claws that crackled with knuckle-fluid when she bent each finger back and rubbed sandalwood-scented oil into it. He was mighty cute for a neurotic -- at least he knew it when he was being nuts. Not that he'd stop being nuts, but he'd cheerfully admit it. 
I forced myself to calm the twitchiness, reminding myself that if this was to have any chance of working, I needed to look unsuspicious, to appear someone who could easily be captured. As nine o’clock rolled nearer, I forced myself to concentrate on the countertop instead of investigating every little noise outside. The faded pink laminate had an overlapping pattern of light white squiggles texturing it—I graphed the squiggles parametrically and then translated to rectangular coordinates just for kicks. 
The swinging door to the kitchen banged open. Several large men with AKs crowded into the diner, apparently having come in through the back. 
I had started to move before I tamped down the reflexes, and just ended up jerking off the stool. God bless Checker. It had worked. “Hi,” I said, absurdly. What did a person say when a bunch of guys with guns appeared and it wasn’t exactly what she’d been hoping would happen? “Who are you?” 
“Come with us,” said one of the goons. 
I wondered if I should put up an appearance of fear. Probably, though I wasn’t very good at such things. “Okay,” I said, trying to look subdued, and started forward. 
"He was also a man who buried his entire family in the name of war. Three daughters, two sons, all under the age of twelve. His wife was purged by his own government for reasons which are not immediately clear, but which we suspect had something to do with a tactical failure that Brezhnaya contributed to. They wanted to send him a message to pay more attention to his work. He was a loyal soldier who found the old axiom that war is a sword that cuts both ways to be horribly true." Holcomb shrugs, as if these are things he doesn't expect Ray to understand. "I won't argue that he wasn't a monster, but he had his reasons. Any one of us who wears the uniform could just as easily follow the same path if we were forced to endure so much despair. 
Brezhnaya was weary of conflict, of suffering, and he believed he had found a way to put an end to a generation of carnage, so that no one else would have to suffer the same losses he had known. Despite his methods and ultimately his failure, the impulse should not be comprehended as anything but patriotic. 
I took one look at them—none of them looked at me—and my heart went out. They were so sincere, so sure of what they were doing. For somebody who's always questioning everything, like me, it was touching, and maybe a little daunt­ing too. 
Without a word, Ramala led me past them and on to an entryway at the far end of the courtyard, past the giant Danc­ing Shiva. The door was huge and ornate, decorated with beaten-copper filigree—much like one I'd seen in a Mogul palace in Northern India. Definitely awe-inspiring. 
She pushed open the door without ceremony and there he was, dressed in white and looking for all the world like the miracle worker he claimed to be. He seemed to be meditating in his chair, but the moment I entered, his deep eyes snapped open. 
"Did you bring your records?" he asked, not getting up. While I was producing them from my briefcase, Ramala dis­creetly disappeared. 
"Please have a seat." He gestured me toward a wide chair. 
The room was a sterile baby blue, nothing to see. No diplo­mas, no photos, nothing. 
“So we burn them out. If we keep burning the factories down, they’ll shut them down and those kids’ll find something else to do for a living and the game will be better. If no one does that, our work will just get cheaper and cheaper: the game will get less and less fun, too. 
“These people don’t care about the game. To them, it’s just a place to suck a buck out of. They’re not players, they’re leeches, here to suck all the fun out.” 
They had come upon the cottage now, the fourth one, having exterminated four different sniper-nests on the way. 
“Are you in, Anda? Are you here to play, or are you so worried about these leeches on the other side of the world that you want out?” 
“I’m in, Sarge,” Anda said. She armed the BFGs and pointed them at the cottage. 
“Boo-yah!” Lucy said. Her character notched an arrow. 
“Oh, Christ, he’s back,” Lucy said. Raymond’s avatar had snuck up behind them. 
he said, and his character set something down on the ground and backed away. Anda edged up on them. 
"I'm fixing to lay down and die," Lee-Daniel said, stretching theatrically, his pipe-cleaner arms straining. "You're street-legal in New York, right? How about you drive the bus for the next couple shifts?" 
"Seriously?" MacDiarmid said. His black hair was showing grey now, but his eyebrows were still fierce and black, his eyes still sharp in their nest of whiskey-cured crows-feet. 
It was rare for Lee-Daniel to cede the wheel to anyone else -- it was his damned company and he'd drive the damned bus. Lee-Daniel saw the shareholder confidence eroding before his eyes. 
"Just for a while, OK? Not permanent, just for a day or two, just long enough for me to get over the sleep-deficit and re-grow some stomach lining." It was hard being CEO of a mobile multinational. The shareholder oversight was murder. 
MacDiarmid looked closely at him, then smiled and gave him a burly man-hug that smelled of sandalwood soap and good liquor. "Yeah, of course, of course. I'll put it to the Board Meeting tonight at dinner. Can't have the CEO burning out at the wheel, that's what I'll say, don't worry about it, LD." 
The switchgirl -- a network engineer he'd hired himself from a backwater DeVry at a job-fair in Tulsa, who ran a little to fat but was still broad-shouldered from her time on the rowing machine she shlepped compulsively from gig to gig, facts that Lee-Daniel could recall with ease even if he couldn't remember her name -- turned back and passed the word onto a surveyor who was standing a little ways out of the way, who relayed it to Joey Riel, who was by the doorway, who stuck his head into the corridor. 
Mortimer sauntered back into the auditorium. He put the mic to his lips and boomed "You want something, boss?" 
Lee-Daniel clamped his hands to his ears along with the rest of the crew. "No need to shout," he said to Mortimer. "Is there?" he said to Meatloaf. 
"So, what's the critical path, Mac?" Lee-Daniel asked. "Who's going to run this circus between tonight and your executive search coming through with an empty suit to sit in the driver's seat?" 
"We thought you'd stay on, LD, help with a smooth transition." 
She smiled. "Well, if I ever have one, it's going to be the old-fashioned way. It's a heck of a lot cheaper than adopting." She was heading out, into the front foyer. "Not to mention more fun getting there." 
On that I definitely had to agree. 
The lobby's prewar look was gray and dismal, and as we emerged onto the street, the rain had turned into a steady downpour. Lou was off again today, down at the hospital with Sarah, so I'd engaged a doorman from a new co-op across the street to keep an eye on our vans. A crisp twenty had extracted his solemn promise to do just that. At the mo­ment, however, he was nowhere to be seen. Proving, I sup­pose, David's theory that we needed our own security guy at all location shoots. 
Lou, I thought, I hope you're finally getting through to her. 
"No limo, but at least we get first call on the vans," Arlene observed, her voice not hiding the sarcasm. "Just once I'd like to work for somebody who had serious VIP transporta­tion." 
"David would walk before he'd get a limo." 
“He really wants to blow things up?” 
“No. He’s guilty of something else. But that’s not the point. 
The point is to get it all on the record. To show everyone. There’s this filmmaker who might make a documentary, but I can’t remember her name.” Suddenly it seemed like a totally stupid idea. “Never mind. You have stuff to do. I should go home, any- way. Monica’s going to go nuts if I’m out too late.” 
“No, wait. You don’t remember this filmmaker’s name?” 
“It was weird. Esteban or something. Only that’s her last name. She’s a woman.” 
“Yeah. I know somebody who knows her, and he said it was her kind of thing.” 
He stared at me for a moment, then shook his head. “Look, 
give me two minutes, then let’s go to my place so we can talk.” 
He went back to his actor friends and I turned away so I didn’t have to see him with the purple-haired Bree. A few minutes later he was back, pulling on his jacket, following me up the stairs and through the stinky bar out into the snowy night. 
W e sat on his bed holding mugs of jasmine tea in a room that was a mix of total chaos and essence-of-Nikko. Though he shared the apartment with five other people and two dogs, his tiny closet-sized bedroom was his alone, and it looked like him: the- atrical, a little bit crazy, a little bit beautiful in unexpected ways. 
"No," she said. "It's complicated," she said. 
"What?" 
"You're still under arrest, Marcus. Everyone here is. They can't just sweep in and throw open the doors. Everyone here is going to have to be processed through the criminal justice system. It could take, well, it could take months." 
"I'm going to have to stay here for months ?" 
She grabbed my hands. "No, I think we're going to be able to get you arraigned and released on bail pretty fast. But pretty fast is a relative term. I wouldn't expect anything to happen today. And it's not going to be like those people had it. It will be humane. There will be real food. No interrogations. Visits from your family. 
"Just because the DHS is out, it doesn't mean that you get to just walk out of here. What's happened here is that we're getting rid of the bizarro-world version of the justice system they'd instituted and replacing it with the old system. The system with judges, open trials and lawyers. 
"So we can try to get you transferred to a juvie facility on the mainland, but Marcus, those places can be really rough. Really, really rough. This might be the best place for you until we get you bailed out." 
Anyway, I listened to my stomach, and decided it was high time to toss in the towel. I got my things, locked up, and then I ran into David on the elevator, coming down from the floor above. 
"How's it going?" he asked, ostentatiously checking his watch, an approving gleam in his eyes. I was glad he wanted to let me know he'd noticed I was logging long hours. Then he looked at me again. "Hey, you feeling okay?" 
"I've been better," I said, thinking how nice it was that he cared. "Could be a couple of aspirin and a good night's sleep are called for." 
"So now you're a doctor?" he said, following me into the lobby, "Providing self-diagnosis—?" 
"David, give me a break. I just happen to feel a little off today, okay? It doesn't mean I'm at death's door." 
"Yeah, well, the way you look you coulda fooled me." He headed down the street, toward the avenue. Then he called back over his shoulder. "I don't want to see you in tomorrow unless you look like you might live through the day. I pay for your health insurance. Use it, for God's sake." 
"It's a pity she's so plain looking," remarked Mrs. Cobb, blowing out the candle. 
"PLAIN LOOKING, mother?" exclaimed her husband in astonishment. "Look at the eyes of her; look at the hair of her, an' the smile, an' that there dimple! Look at Alice Robinson, that's called the prettiest child on the river, an' see how Rebecca shines her ri' down out o' sight! I hope Mirandy'll favor her comin' over to see us real often, for she'll let off some of her steam here, an' the brick house'll be consid'able safer for everybody concerned. We've known what it was to hev children, even if 't was more 'n thirty years ago, an' we can make allowances." 
Notwithstanding the encomiums of Mr. and Mrs. Cobb, Rebecca made a poor hand at composition writing at this time. Miss Dearborn gave her every sort of subject that she had ever been given herself: Cloud Pictures; Abraham Lincoln; Nature; Philanthropy; Slavery; Intemperance; Joy and Duty; Solitude; but with none of them did Rebecca seem to grapple satisfactorily. 
"Well, there's something I'd like to understand. Last week I met a woman who had adopted a baby boy through Children of Light. She got him in three months. Such a thing is, ac­cording to what I can find out, totally unheard of. So how did you manage that?" 
He stared down at the river. "I thought I'd explained that adoptions are not what we primarily do here. They're pro­vided only as a last resort, in the few cases where my regimen of Hygeian therapies fails." 
"But in those cases, where do you find—?" 
"As I've said before we talk about adoption, first we need to satisfy ourselves that no other options are possible." Then his eyes clicked into me. "If you could come back next Sat­urday to begin your tests and receive an orientation, I could give you an opinion about your chances of bearing a child. It will require a thorough examination, but I can usually tell with a good degree of certainty whether my program can help someone or not. It's really important, though, that you stay at least . . ." He was staring at me. "Mind if I do some­thing that might relieve some of the symptoms of that cold?" 
I dialed Checker. 
“Hello?” said Pilar’s voice. 
I was too confused to answer for a second. “This is Checker’s phone,” I said stupidly. 
“Cas!” Pilar effused. “How did it go? Did you get away? Where are you? Did you find the professor?” 
“No,” I said. “Where’s Checker?” 
“I thought you were with the NSA,” I said. “What happened?” 
“Well, I was, but there wasn’t all that much for me to do once Arthur turned himself in.” 
“Turned himself in? Is Arthur under arrest?” 
“What? No! Uh, I don’t think so. Why would he be?” 
I supposed it was possible for Arthur to spin things as if he hadn’t broken any laws. 
Especially once he’d split from me. I was mad at him all over again. 
Pilar kept chattering. “But anyway, Checker called me for help, I think he was having some sort of PTSD trouble what with the building falling on Arthur, so—” 
“What?” 
“Well, I don’t know if that’s what it is, really, but one of my cousins was in the Marines and—” 
“Pilar!” 
“Apparently it’s not the first time Checker and Arthur have tangled with someone who likes to blow up buildings,” she said. “Checker’s been on it, trying to see if it’s the same person. They say it’s not a very common MO.” 
“It is nearly impossible to tell, because you will rationalize whatever she has made you believe. You are concerned?” 
“Of course I am.” 
“Walk me through the course of events since I saw you last. It is not foolproof, but I shall tell you if I observe inconsistency.” 
And it would be good for him to have my intel in any case. I took a deep breath and started with Courtney Polk going missing, then described my night with Tresting, finding the office workers, Leena’s abrupt change, and the meeting with Finch and Steve. Rio listened quietly. I shared everything, up to and including Tresting’s and my final conversation. 
“I think that’s why I’m feeling so defensive,” I finished unhappily. “Unless Dawna Polk has been messing me up again. But he was so—he was so patronizing.” And since he had implied I was not only a thoughtless kid but one who went around killing people...“Rio, am I—do you think I’m green? Do I act like it?” 
He seemed to think for a moment. “In some circumstances. You can be impulsive.” 
“So the FBI guys come and Danny and I both talk to them and they start laying out a plan and Sarah gets it all on film, but I make sure to cut things off before Danny says anything that could get him in trouble.” 
“And at that moment I come out ...” Sarah held up an imagi- nary camera. “Smile!” 
“So we get what we need but Danny doesn’t get jammed up. 
He gets to be the hero of a movie. I’ve been talking to a lawyer about this. If he gets close to saying something incriminating, I’ll cut it off.” 
She frowned uncertainly as she pushed a mug out of the baby’s reach. “So . . . this film. You’d put it online?” she asked Sarah. 
“Usually I do a little editing and post a film in a rough-cut state within twenty-four hours,” Sarah...  of us. “I like the immediacy and the chance to share my process. 
The hard part comes later, when I make the full-length documen- tary for theatrical release.” 
“You mean like in movie theatres? On Netflix? Would Danny be in it?” 
“He’d have to be in it. This moment is the climax of the story.” 
Wow, you won't believe what happened today. First of all, I was nearly late for work because my new roommate is worried about the electrical and he pulled out all the plugs last night, even my alarm clock! His name is Tony, and I think he is either weird or crazy, or maybe both! He keeps saying that the Company uses the plugs to listen to our minds! He unplugged all the electricals and put tape over them in the middle of the night. When I woke up this morning, my room was totally black! I had my flashlight from work on the chair near my bed, and I used that to find the living room. 
Tony was sitting in his shorts on the sofa, in the dark, watching the plug behind the TV. Hey, I said, you watch the television, not the plug, and then he said some bad words and told me that he didn't want me plugging in anything . He is skinny like Jimmy got when he had the AIDS, but he is not sick, he is hyperkinetic, like Manny was when he went to the special school. That is why he is management and I still work on a truck. If I have to be skinny and crazy to be management, I'll take the truck all day long! 
"Well, I'm tracking something down here. Between the two of us, I think we'll find her." 
"So, what the hell are you doing?" 
I told him about finding the name of a destination on Sarah's old landing card, and about meeting a guy who was going to take me there as soon as the weather cleared. 
"And you think she could be there now?" He didn't sound hopeful. 
"There're reasons to check it out." I didn't want to elabo­rate. "Maybe we'll get lucky." 
I was attempting to say as little as possible, fearing the phone was tapped. In that spirit, I decided to get off the line as quickly as possible. 
"Lou, you get lots of rest, and I'll try and call you tomor­row." 
With a final warning to watch out for myself, he took down my hotel number and hung up. Truthfully, he was sounding pretty tired and weak, not nearly his old self. 
Well, he had a right to be. But at least there were no complications. 
My next call was going to be to David Roth, to check in on things at Applecore, but first I wanted to order up some huevos rancheros , get some breakfast protein. I was becom­ing energized by the prospect of progress, and being that way always makes me ravenous. It's probably a primal female response that has a Latin name. 
"Has anyone exploited this bug yet?" 
She gave me a condescending look. 
"How many systems has he compromised?" 
"About eight billion, we think. He's designated a million to act as redundant command servers, and he's got about ten thousand lieutenant systems he uses to diffuse messages to the million." 
"That's good protocol analysis," I said. 
"Yeah," she said, and smiled with shy pride. "I don't think he expected me to be looking there." 
"What's he doing with his botnet? Preparing to crash the world? Hold it hostage?" 
She shook her head. "I think he's installing himself on them, trying to brute-force his way into a live and running backup, arrived at through random variation and pruning." 
"He's backing himself up in the wild," I said, my voice breathy. 
And that's when I remembered that I had a live phone in my pocket that was transmitting every word to BIGMAC. 
Understand: in that moment of satori, I realized that I was on the wrong side of this battle. BIGMAC wasn't using me to create a trust so that we could liberate him together. He was using me to weaken the immune systems of eight billion computers so that he could escape from the Institute and freely roam the world, with as much hardware as he needed to get as big and fast and hot as he wanted to be. 
After one of these private luncheons Rebecca had been tempted beyond her strength, and when Minnie took her seat among them asked, "Is your headache better, Minnie? Let me wipe off that strawberry jam over your mouth." 
There was no jam there as a matter of fact, but the guilty Minnie's handkerchief went to her crimson face in a flash. 
Rebecca confessed to Emma Jane that same afternoon that she felt ashamed of her prank. "I do hate her ways," she exclaimed, "but I'm sorry I let her know we 'spected her; and so to make up, I gave her that little piece of broken coral I keep in my bead purse; you know the one?" 
"It don't hardly seem as if she deserved that, and her so greedy," remarked Emma Jane. 
"I know it, but it makes me feel better," said Rebecca largely; "and then I've had it two years, and it's broken so it wouldn't ever be any real good, beautiful as it is to look at." 
The coral had partly served its purpose as a reconciling bond, when one afternoon Rebecca, who had stayed after school for her grammar lesson as usual, was returning home by way of the short cut. Far ahead, beyond the bars, she espied the Simpson children just entering the woodsy bit. Seesaw was not with them, so she hastened her steps in order to secure company on her homeward walk. They were speedily lost to view, but when she had almost overtaken them she heard, in the trees beyond, Minnie Smellie's voice lifted high in song, and the sound of a child's sobbing. 
From having your bones liquefied by a pissed off demigod, Ray almost says. For an instant, he flashes back to Ba'dai, to Whitfield and the others collapsing like discarded garments, puddles of vacated flesh. Maybe Holcomb wasn't a complete asshole. Maybe he'd learned a lesson or two in the desert after all. Not that this gesture mitigated in any way Ray's desire to punch him in the skull. 
"What's all this sand jockey mumbo-jumbo mean?" Kilgore, subtle as a hand grenade. "I mean, I know sand jockey mumbo-jumbo when I see it." 
Ray just shrugs. 
But Rodriguez continues to turn the ring over on his finger, tracing the words, his lips moving. He glances up. 
'"For the terror that comes by night.'" 
Silence. Kilgore purses his lips. "That's a little weird." 
But Rodriguez looks only at Ray, says once again, "Protection from what?" 
And on top of that, he still doesn't know what to do about Emma. And there's Ziggy to contend with, who about now is probably pissing acid because he thinks Ray has gone AWOL, which means that Nina knows, 
"You have at least two lines, Rebecca," insisted the teacher, "for I see them on your slate." 
"I'd rather not read them, please; they are not good," pleaded Rebecca. 
"Read what you have, good or bad, little or much; I am excusing nobody." 
Dick Carter's head disappeared under the desk, while Living Perkins choked with laughter. 
Miss Dearborn laughed too; she was little more than a girl, and the training of the young idea seldom appealed to the sense of humor. 
"You must stay after school and try again, Rebecca," she said, but she said it smilingly. "Your poetry hasn't a very nice idea in it for a good little girl who ought to love duty." 
"It wasn't MY idea," said Rebecca apologetically. 
"That is better," Miss Dearborn answered, "though I cannot think 'going to smash' is a pretty expression for poetry." 
Having been instructed in the use of the indefinite pronoun "one" as giving a refined and elegant touch to literary efforts, Rebecca painstakingly rewrote her composition on solitude, giving it all the benefit of Miss Dearborn's suggestion. 
"Hey, check out Orion," he said finally leaning back, an easy, delicious finger aimed at that sprawling constellation. I looked up at the canopy of stars, and sure enough, the hunter and his sword dominated the starry sky above like a stalwart centurion, guarding us. "I always know I'm in the tropics when it's right overhead." 
"Honey, this has been wonderful," I declared. "Thank you so much." I moved around and kissed him. "It's exactly the attitude adjustment I needed." 
"Well"—he smiled back—"now I guess we've got some organizing to do. So tell me everything you left out back there at the hotel. I know you were holding off." 
I was feeling increasingly hyper, probably from the high- octane chocolate, but I proceeded to recount all my findings about Alex Goddard and Quetzal Manor. Then I moved on to Colonel Ramos and how he'd threatened Carly and me about my film. Finally, I told him my deep belief that Colonel Ramos and a couple of his goons were obviously the ones who'd roughed up Lou and taken Sarah. 
I’d expected Jones to step back in after a few minutes and continue her interrogation, but she didn’t. After a while, I put my head down on the table again and tried to sleep, but it worked about as well as it had before. I’d get some alcohol to help with that, once I was off this job. A lot of it. Or some of the good pills. Or both. 
A different agent came by a few hours later with a dinner tray, a hamburger and a bag of crisps and a soda. I ate mechanically while considering the efficacy of trays as weapons, but I wasn’t ready to try busting out yet. How likely was it that I’d torpedoed my chances of walking away from this? I couldn’t tell. The same agent came back to take the tray away when I was done anyway, so I shelved that plan for now. 
Finally, after a very, very lengthy wait, Agent Jones came back. My watch said it was almost the next morning, and I pettily hoped Jones had been forced to be up all night because of me—she was in the same clothes and the bags under her eyes had gouged themselves darker. Then I realized she probably would have been up all night anyway because of the continuing national security crisis and all, and I was just the asshole making everything harder. 
“I love my bedroom.” 
“It smells funny in there.” 
“I like the way it smells. And the online classes are lame, but it’s way better than my old school. At least for me. Liv would hate it. Not enough opportunities to form cliques and torture each other.” 
“She’s not that bad.” 
“I just don’t fit in there. I’m a lot happier now. I’m sorry I got loud. Again.” 
“At least the neighbors didn’t notice.” 
“You know, you don’t have to pretend to be interested in stuff I say.” 
“I know. Even if I’m not into technology like you, I enjoy hear- ing you talk because you’re passionate about it.” 
“Pfft. I like hearing about history because it’s interesting.” 
“I can’t help it if my specialty is more interesting than yours. 
Did you hear about the rally downtown tomorrow?” 
“Yeah, Nikko wants me to go with him.” 
“You don’t sound too enthusiastic.” 
“Protests are a waste of time. They just make people feel good. 
They don’t change anything.” 
“Such cynicism.” 
“Well, it’s true, isn’t it?” 
“It depends. In this case, it may show the authorities that peo- ple are paying attention. That they think these arrests are unjust.” 
But then the woman who had borne Tz'ac Tzotz said something in Kekchi Maya, pointing back at me and her child, and lunged at him. They collided together in the rain and next she slid down, first seizing his leg, then losing her grip and slipping onto the stones, her long black hair askew in the hovering smoke. 
She's trying to save me, I realized. Why—? 
Then I saw Sarah pull away from the women supporting her and slowly move across the platform. 
"Morgy . . ." 
She was walking in the direction of Alex Goddard, but then she stumbled over the fallen woman's leg and her hand went down as she sprawled across her. She must have touched something, because she recoiled backward, and only then did I notice the flare of a torch glinting off the obsidian knife now protruding from the woman's chest. 
Sarah rose up, her eyes full of anger, and awkwardly flung her arms, searching. I could feel the passion that had been pent up all those months she lay in the coma, feeding her madness. She managed to catch hold of Alex Goddard's arm, and they began an awkward minuet, neither realizing how close they were to the stone platform's edge. I stood mes­merized a moment, then dashed toward them, but only in time to watch them vanish into the rain and haze. It was as though there had been some sleight of hand. One second they were there and the next they weren't. At first I thought my eyes were playing tricks on me, but then I realized it was real. They were gone. 
"Don't trust anyone over 25!" 
" Don't trust anyone over 25! " 
"Don't trust anyone over 25!" 
" Don't trust anyone over 25! " 
"Don't trust anyone over 25!" 
" Don't trust anyone over 25! " 
She banged some hard chords on her guitar and the other guitarist, a little pixie of a girl whose face bristled with piercings, jammed in, going wheedle-dee-wheedle-dee-dee up high, past the twelfth fret. 
"It's our goddamned city! It's our goddamned country. No terrorist can take it from us for so long as we're free. Once we're not free, the terrorists win! Take it back! Take it back! You're young enough and stupid enough not to know that you can't possibly win, so you're the only ones who can lead us to victory! Take it back! " 
"TAKE IT BACK!" we roared. She jammed down hard on her guitar. We roared the note back and then it got really really LOUD. 
I danced until I was so tired I couldn't dance another step. Ange danced alongside of me. Technically, we were rubbing our sweaty bodies against each other for several hours, but believe it or not, I totally wasn't being a horn-dog about it. We were dancing, lost in the godbeat and the thrash and the screaming -- TAKE IT BACK! TAKE IT BACK! 
Lee-Daniel knew he should have gotten them to pay upfront. Nothing got the blackshirts interested in private wireless networking like routing suspicious real-time chatter between Burmese guerrilla cells and suspected movie-swappers in DC. But that wasn't how CogRadio had been built. The native bands that were desperate enough to assert that their ancestral treaties didn't encompass the RF spectrum couldn't afford to lay out cash for CogRadio's hardware, training and remote administration. CogRadio was as much a bank as a technology startup. 
With the investors off out of sight, the managers and the front-liners shucked their veneer of civility and began to get wild, ordering drinks and health-insurance-invalidating carbo-treats. Elaine sucked down three tequila cartons and glared bleary hostility at him. 
"The fuck do you know about anything , hey?" she said. "You're supposed to be in charge of things, but you don't take a shit without clearing it with those bastards." She jerked her head over her shoulder at the closed door of the private dining room. "And when you do make a decision, you fuck it up." The smell of old sweat and booze made his eyes water. 
I spent all last night throwing up, and I'm not sure if I'm going to go to the office today. 
Hi Mom! 
Well, I didn't go to work yesterday. Instead, I got out of bed, sat on the sofa in my shorts, and turned on the movies. My watch got loud and angry, so I stuck it underneath my pillow. Then, messages started appearing on my TV. I ignored them. 
Someone knocked on my door after lunch, but I was watching a good part in Wall Street, so I didn't answer it. 
I fell asleep after Wall Street, and woke up after 18h, because someone was really giving my door a pounding. 
I opened the door, not caring that I was wearing my shorts. It was Rhindquist. He looked sad, and beaten. You know what he did? He gave me a hug! Boy, that was weird. 
He came in and sat on the sofa. I sat next to him. He didn't say anything, just picked up the remote and put on a funny movie, Blazing Saddles. When that was over, he put on The Princess Bride. I never laughed so much! 
We watched movies all night. They were all funny. They took my mind off things. We both fell asleep, sitting on the sofa, but when I woke up, I was in bed, and Rhindquist had put the blanket over me. He was asleep on the sofa. His phone was on the TV, and its batteries were on the floor. 
“Acknowledged. It is my pleasure to do you a service, Detective.” 
“Shut up,” he said, and hung up the phone. The R Peed—Robot, Police Department—robots were the worst, programmed to be friendly to a fault, even as they surveilled and snitched out every person who walked past their eternally vigilant, ever-remembering electrical eyes and brains. 
The R Peeds could outrun a police car on open ground or highway. He’d barely had time to untwist his clenched hands from the steering wheel when R Peed Robbert was at his window, politely rapping on the smoked glass. He didn’t want to roll down the window. Didn’t want to smell the dry, machine-oil smell of a robot. He phoned it instead. 
“You are now tasked to me, Detective’s override, acknowledge.” 
The metal man bowed, its symmetrical, simplified features pleasant and guileless. It clicked its heels together with an audible snick as those marvelous, spring-loaded, nuclear-powered gams whined through their parody of obedience. “Acknowledged, Detective. It is my pleasure to do—” 
"They may be," smiled Adam, taking in the old man's mood; "only I don't happen to know one." 
"My eyesight bein' poor 's the reason she looked han'somest of any girl on the platform, I s'pose?" 
"There's no failure in my eyes," responded Adam, "but that was how the thing seemed to me!" 
"What did you think of her voice? Anything extry about it?" 
"Made the others sound poor and thin, I thought." 
"Well, I'm glad to hear your opinion, you bein' a traveled man, for mother says I'm foolish 'bout Rebecky and hev been sence the fust. Mother scolds me for spoilin' her, but I notice mother ain't fur behind when it comes to spoilin'. Land! it made me sick, thinkin' o' them parents travelin' miles to see their young ones graduate, and then when they got here hevin' to compare 'em with Rebecky. Good-by, Mr. Ladd, drop in some day when you come to Riverboro." 
"I will," said Adam, shaking the old man's hand cordially; "perhaps to-morrow if I drive Rebecca home, as I shall offer to do. Do you think Miss Sawyer's condition is serious?" 
And it wasn’t going to work out so well for me. 
“Is she all right?” came Martinez’s grandmotherly voice. 
“How nice that you care,” said the Lancer. He’d retreated to a spot between us, leaning on his cane, the meditation balls going in his other hand. “Dr. Martinez, you’ve told me you won’t part with certain information on a proof that—” he brayed his hyena laugh—“that I know you have. But I think we can change your mind.” He gestured at me. “We’re going to start by torturing your friend here, who so conveniently made herself available. If that doesn’t work, we’ll go out and find another one of your friends, or we’ll find your family, any family you have—children, grandchildren, newborn babies...do you want that?” 
Martinez was silent. 
“I said, do you want that?” 
“I assumed the question was rhetorical,” she said. “Of course I don’t want that. It would be a most inhuman state. And if I did want it, I would have been spurred to do it myself, in all likelihood, so even if you suspected violent psychopathy on my part, there is evidence to the contrary.” 
She noticed now for the first time that the photographs of Mr. and Mrs. Enderby in silver frames, which had always stood on the writing desk, were not standing there now. 
She turned to the bureau. Caroline’s silver toilet set was not there. She made a rapid survey of the room, and she made sure of her suspicions. Caroline had gone deliberately, taking with her all the things she would need on a short trip. 
“I’ve got to tell Mrs. Enderby now,” she thought. “It’s only fair.” 
She went out into the corridor, closing the door behind her, and turned toward Mrs. Enderby’s room. She was very, very reluctant, for she dreaded to break the peace of the quiet house by this dramatic announcement. She hated anything in the nature of the sensational. Level-headed, cool, practical, her instinct was to make light of all this, to insist that nothing was really wrong. Caroline had gone, and that was that. 
“There’s going to be such a fuss!” she thought. “If there’s anything I loathe, it’s a fuss.” 
And all the time, under her cool and sensible exterior, she was frightened. She felt that after all she was very young, and very inexperienced, in a world where things—anything—things beyond her knowledge—might happen. 
Mine was a standard one-bedroom in a building that had been turned into a co-op five years earlier, the owner offering the individual apartments to the tenants. I'd stayed a renter, however, passing up the "low" insider price, $138,000, be­cause I didn't really have the money, and when I did have it someday I would want something bigger. I wished I had more space—a real dining room and a bigger bathroom would do for starters, along with some place for more bookcases. And if a baby should someday miraculously come along . . . 
I'd often thought you could tell a lot about somebody from where and how they lived; it's revealing as a Rorschach test. What, I often wondered, did my apartment say about me? 
A decorator might conclude I'd done up the place with love, then lazily let it go. They'd decide I cared about nice things, but once those nice things were there, I neglected them. It would be true. 
I'd covered the walls of the living room with pale blue cloth, then hung a lot of framed pictures and old movie post­ers. Okay, I like movies. For me even the posters are art. My couch was an off-white, more like dirt-colored actually, and covered with pillows for the "feminine" touch. I'd hoped you'd have to look twice to realize it was actually a storage cabinet in disguise, with drawers along the bottom of the front. The floor was polished hardwood, rugs from India here and there, in sore need of a vacuuming, and even a couple of deceased insects that'd been there for over a week. That sort of said it, I thought glumly. I'm a workaholic slob. 
The initial destination was part of my new plan, hatched while I was on the plane. When I was reading my guidebook and filling out my entry card I'd had a bright idea. I knew exactly how I wanted to begin. 
Heading into town, the time now the middle of the after­noon, I leaned back in the seat and tried to absorb the view, to get a feeling for where I was. We first traveled through the suburban fringes, the heavily guarded luxurious man­sions of the landholding and military elite, the one percent of Guatemala who own ninety-nine percent of the country. Iron fences and wide expanses of lawn, protected by Uzi-toting security, guarded whimsical architectural con­ceits topped by silver satellite dishes. A twenty-foot wall shielded their delicate eyes from the city's largest shanty-town, makeshift hovels of bamboo and rusted tin, with no signs of water or drains or toilets. Guatemala City: as Steve had put it once, a million doomed citizens, the rich and the poor, trapped together side by side in the most "modern" capital in Central America. 
“ I saw the body! ” her mother said, shrieking like Trover. “I held his head! He is dead , Vale!” 
Valentine didn’t understand what her mother was saying, but she certainly didn’t want to hang around the flat and listen to this raving. 
She turned on her heel and walked out of the flat. It was full dark out and there was snow on the ground and wet snow whipping along in the wind and she didn’t have her too-small winter coat on, but she wasn’t going to stay and listen to her mother’s nonsense. 
On the corner a man from the city told her she was breaking curfew and told her to go home or she’d end up getting herself shot. She shivered and glared at him and ignored him and set off in a random direction. She certainly wasn’t going to stand on that corner and listen to his lunacy. 
There were soldiers drinking in a cellar on another street and they called out to her and what they said wasn’t the kind of thing you said to a little girl, though she knew well enough what it meant. Now she was cold and soaked through and shivering uncontrollably and she didn’t know where she was and her father was— She began to run. 
With that ultimatum still ringing in my ears, I took my leave of David Roth and headed north, up the Henry Hud­son Parkway. My life was getting too roller-coaster for words. . . . 
As I drove, I tried not to dwell on the practical aspects of what was coming. It was hard to imagine what tests Alex Goddard could perform that hadn't already been done by Hannah Klein. Just thinking back over that dismal sequence made me feel baby-despondent all over again. 
When I first mentioned I was thinking about trying to get pregnant, she looked me over, perhaps mentally calculating my age and my prospects, and then made a light suggestion. 
"Why don't I give you a prescription for Clomid. Clomiphene citrate enhances ovulation, and it might be a good idea in your case. You're still young, Morgan, but you're no longer in the first blush of youth." 
I took it for six months, but nothing happened. That was the beginning of my pregnancy depression. 
By that time, she'd decided I definitely had a problem, so she began what she called an "infertility workup." The main thing was to check my Fallopian tubes for blockages and look for ovulatory abnormalities. But everything turned out to be fine. Depression City. 
"Ray?" 
Emma's voice in his ear, gone from pleasantly libidinous to questioning, bordering on concerned, because he's been screwing around in his own head when he was supposed to be answering her flirtation.  He draws himself back to the surface, to a place where he's in even remote contact with reality. "I've never said anything like that to a woman." 
She purrs at him, delighted. "Never?" 
"I haven't been in the types of places where there are women you'd want to say them to. And I imagine those types of women wouldn't have wanted to hear a G.I. actually say it and mean it, anyway." 
Was that a stupid admission to make? He thinks it might have been. 
"Then you must be falling in love with me." 
"It's too early." 
"I thought you said you hadn't been given a manual?" 
"I did— no, that's not what I mean. Hell, I mean that it just doesn't work that way. Not where I come from. You don't fall in love with somebody after two freaking days! You fall into lust, or into deep desire, or into some really gripping kind of titillation." 
one way out territory, a reduced scale model of a wild west box canyon. Seeing it, Ray's guts twist into a knot. 
Another foray into infrared to check the canyon entrance for sentries, of which there seem to be none, then he pushes on with the operation as they drilled it. Dhamers plants himself behind an outcropping where he can cover their entrance with his subby and a patchwork of remote detonated personnel mines. 
Kluge deploys right, Hanfland left, up the steady incline of New Mes bedrock where they match pace with the insertion team and can provide a nasty crossfire from the high ground if necessary. Or they can pick off Russoturks trying to flee. Or even more likely, they can cower in the open with their thumbs up their...  to pick them off while Ray lets Holcomb poke around the ashes of a cold campfire and analyze camel tracks and attempt to figure out why his quarry isn't where he's supposed to be. 
Now five, himself included, Ray leads the plunge into the gully. Rocky overhangs slice the skyfield into an eight meter swath. Without sufficient light, his visor image shudders, then crashes into a rainbow of pixilated madness, and tries to recalibrate. He doesn't give it a chance, not when he's on the move and wending the jagged channels of the canyon, merely rams the plate out of his eyes and squints like everybody else. Cold desert wind cuts through the channel like a storm warning, whipping through the switchbacks and setting up echoes and phantom calls, the sound of spectral voices, the core root of djinn and ifrit mythology. 
"I'm working on my thesis, Grampa. I'm here to interview you -- I'll be around for the next couple weeks." 
"That's nice," Grampa said. "How's your father?" 
"He's fine. I didn't tell him I was coming down, though. You're a touchy subject for him." 
Grampa settled back into his chair. Sean was distantly aware of other Survivors on the ward, gabbling and twitching at videogames and smoking all at once. They were high-functioning -- they could be switched on with simple stim; Grampa only switched on for important occasions. 
Sean said, "Dad wishes you'd die." 
That did it. It was easy to tell when Grampa was switched on; the rhythmic, methodical maintenance twitching was replaced with a restless, all-over fidget; and his eyes darted around the room. "Is he in some kind of financial trouble? He doesn't need to wait for a bequest -- I'll write to the trustees right now." 
Sean restrained himself from saying hello again, now that Grampa was switched on. He kept himself focused on the task of keeping Grampa switched on. "He wishes you'd die because he hates you and he hates himself for it. When you die, he can stop hating you and start mourning you. He knows it wasn't your fault. That's why I'm here. I want to collect your stories and make some sense out of them, before you die." Sean took a deep breath. "Will you stay switched on?" 
“You know how the magician always has a supply of lovely assistants on hand?” 
She nodded again. They’d worn flattering, tight-fitting calf-high trousers, cutaway coats, tummy-revealing crop-tops, and feathered confections for hats. 
“Everyone who does magic has an assistant or two. I’m the wizard and I do the best magic of all, and so I have need of more assistants than most. I have an army of assistants, and they help me out and I help them out.” 
“I’m leaving in five days,” she said. 
“The kind of favor I had in mind from you was the kind of favor that you could perform the day after tomorrow.” 
“And you’d take care of my family?” 
“I would do that,” he said. “I always take care of my assistants’ families. Do we have an agreement?” 
She stuck her hand out and they shook. 
“Eat your dumplings,” he said. “And then we’ll get you some things to take home to your family.” 
Two days after the wizard agreed to take care of Valentine’s family, the fever had become her constant companion, so omnipresent that it she hardly noticed it, though it made her walk like an old woman and she sometimes had trouble focusing her eyes. 
Here Rebecca appeared in sight, walking down the quiet street with a lad of sixteen. They were in animated conversation, and were apparently reading something aloud to each other, for the black head and the curly brown one were both bent over a sheet of letter paper. Rebecca kept glancing up at her companion, her eyes sparkling with appreciation. 
"Miss Maxwell," said Adam, "I am a trustee of this institution, but upon my word I don't believe in coeducation!" 
"I have my own occasional hours of doubt," she answered, "but surely its disadvantages are reduced to a minimum with—children! That is a very impressive sight which you are privileged to witness, Mr. Ladd. The folk in Cambridge often gloated on the spectacle of Longfellow and Lowell arm in arm. The little school world of Wareham palpitates with excitement when it sees the senior and the junior editors of The Pilot walking together!" 
The day before Rebecca started for the South with Miss Maxwell she was in the library with Emma Jane and Huldah, consulting dictionaries and encyclopaedias. As they were leaving they passed the locked cases containing the library of fiction, open to the teachers and townspeople, but forbidden to the students. 
Among the teachers at Wareham was one who influenced Rebecca profoundly, Miss Emily Maxwell, with whom she studied English literature and composition. Miss Maxwell, as the niece of one of Maine's ex-governors and the daughter of one of Bowdoin's professors, was the most remarkable personality in Wareham, and that her few years of teaching happened to be in Rebecca's time was the happiest of all chances. There was no indecision or delay in the establishment of their relations; Rebecca's heart flew like an arrow to its mark, and her mind, meeting its superior, settled at once into an abiding attitude of respectful homage. 
It was rumored that Miss Maxwell "wrote," which word, when uttered in a certain tone, was understood to mean not that a person had command of penmanship, Spencerian or otherwise, but that she had appeared in print. 
"You'll like her; she writes," whispered Huldah to Rebecca the first morning at prayers, where the faculty sat in an imposing row on the front seats. "She writes; and I call her stuck up." 
“It’ll do Muriel no end of good,” said Captain Grey, when they were in the taxi. “She’s—to tell you the truth, Miss Moran, I don’t feel altogether easy about her.” 
“Why?” asked Lexy, very curious to know what he thought. 
“Well,” he said, “it’s hard to put it into words; but that’s not a wholesome sort of life for a young woman, shut away like that. The doctor says her health’s not good, but it’s my opinion that if she got about more—saw more people, you know—” 
Lexy felt a great pity for him. Apparently he did not even suspect what she was now sure of—that the unfortunate Muriel was hopelessly addicted to some drug, which her husband himself gave to her. 
“And I hope he’ll go back to India before he does find out,” she thought. “It’s too horrible—he worships her so!” 
“I’ve tried, you know,” he went on. “I wanted to take her into the city, to a concert. Seems confoundedly queer, doesn’t it, the way she’s lost interest in her music? She didn’t want to go. Then about the emerald—” 
“Oh!” said Lexy, who had forgotten about the emerald. 
"We were set to market it as an anti-anxiety medication." 
"And?" 
Ria stood up abruptly. "I'll wait outside." She left without another word. 
Viktor rolled his eyes again. "How do you get people to take anti-anxiety medication? Lots and lots of people? I mean, if I assigned you that project, gave you a budget for it --" 
Leon felt torn between a desire to chase after Ria and to continue to stay in the magnetic presence of Viktor. He shrugged. "Same as you would with any pharma. Cook the diagnosis protocol, expand the number of people it catches. Get the news media whipped up about the anxiety epidemic. That's easy. Fear sells. An epidemic of fear? Christ, that'd be too easy. Far too easy. Get the insurers on board, discounts on the meds, make it cheaper to prescribe a course of treatment than to take the call-center time to explain to the guy why he's not getting the meds." 
"You're my kind of guy, Leon," Viktor said. "So yeah." 
"Yeah?" 
Another one of those we're-both-men-of-the-world smiles. "Yeah." 
So was Rio. 
Arthur’s face swam into focus above me. His expression was wrinkled with concern, though his eyes still weren’t quite focusing properly. Concussion. That’s right. 
What had Dawna done to me? 
“Russell?” Someone was talking to me. I couldn’t remember who. “Russell? Hey, Russell, you all right?” 
“Arthur,” I mumbled, his name coming back to me again even as some other thought slid away. 
“The very same. You hurt?” 
It took me a while to muddle out what he was asking. I had to concentrate, figure it out. “No.” Was that the right answer? 
I heard him take a quiet breath, a sigh that sounded like relief. 
“What happened?” I mumbled. 
“Checker did it,” said Arthur. “Sounds like whatever you two was on about, it worked. Knocked Pithica off their game something good, from their reaction here.” His voice faltered, as if he didn’t know whether we’d done right or not. 
I didn’t know either. 
I tried to sort through my disjointed memories of the fight. “Dawna got away,” I dredged up finally. 
not to be outdone, ranted about police brutality and I threw in a speech of my own about mass surveillance. I checked my phone every now and then. I ignored the missed calls and message noti- fications and only paid attention to the time. When I’d been there for nearly two hours, I asked where the bathroom was. I needed to download the video I’d shot before the memory ran out. 
I went up the stairs and paused by an open door. Marita was sitting on a bed next the baby, rubbing his back and humming, 
even though the kid was totally conked out. 
“Bathroom?” I whispered. 
She pointed down the hall. As I turned away I heard a shaky breath. I looked back to see her rubbing her eyes with the heel of one hand before she leaned over the baby, her straggly hair shield- ing her face. I hesitated for a moment, then went to the bathroom where the walls were covered in scribbled messages and doodles and the shower curtain was speckled with grunge. 
At least the door had a latch that worked. I locked myself in, switched on my laptop, and dug out the cable to connect the memory strip in the shirt to a USB port. Once the video finished downloading, I plugged earbuds into the jack and ran a few seconds of it to make sure it was working. 
"But we'll meet no more at Bingen, dear...  sounded beautiful in her ears, as she sent her tearful little treble into the clear morning air. 
When Emma Jane Perkins walked through the "short cut" with her, the two children used to render this with appropriate dramatic action. Emma Jane always chose to be the woodman because she had nothing to do but raise on high an imaginary axe. On the one occasion when she essayed the part of the tree's romantic protector, she represented herself as feeling "so awful foolish" that she refused to undertake it again, much to the secret delight of Rebecca, who found the woodman's role much too tame for her vaulting ambition. She reveled in the impassioned appeal of the poet, and implored the ruthless woodman to be as brutal as possible with the axe, so that she might properly put greater spirit into her lines. One morning, feeling more frisky than usual, she fell upon her knees and wept in the woodman's petticoat. Curiously enough, her sense of proportion rejected this as soon as it was done. 
“I promise, rotten,” he said. 
“I love you, Daddy,” she said in her most syrupy voice. He gave her a squeeze on the shoulder and a slap on the butt. 
He opened the door again. Benny was there, imperturbable. Unlike the UNATS robots, he was odorless, and perfectly silent. 
“I’m going to go to the toilet and then make...  
“I would be happy to assist in any way possible.” 
“I can wipe myself, thanks,” Arturo said. He washed his face twice and tried to rinse away the flavor left behind by whatever had shat in his mouth while he was unconscious. There was a splayed toothbrush in a glass by the sink, and if it was his wife’s—and whose else could it be?—it wouldn’t be the first time he’d shared a toothbrush with her. But he couldn’t bring himself to do it. Instead, he misted some dentifrice onto his fingertip and rubbed his teeth a little. 
There was a hairbrush by the sink, too, with short mousy hairs caught in it. Some of them were grey, but they were still familiar enough. He had to stop himself from smelling the hairbrush. 
really good at it. When he gets into a role, he’s totally into it, and it’s almost creepy because he’s so convincing. His face changes. 
His body changes. He becomes another person. And then, at the snap of a finger, he’s himself again. It’s like possession, only it’s all under his control. Also, he can memorize pages and pages of dialogue or make stuff up on the fly. Give him a character outline and he’ll run with it, improvising a story and making it all totally believable. 
He didn’t go to my school in the suburbs, but the kids at his school were just as bad. Between his clothes, his looks, and his attitude, he didn’t fit in. He didn’t like being called a faggot and getting harassed on a daily basis. For the record, he’s not gay or even bi. “Faggot” is just an all-purpose insult. The fact that he sometimes wears a skirt isn’t a statement about his orientation. He just feels like it, but boys aren’t supposed to feel like it. 
Sometimes I think it’s harder being a boy than a girl because you can’t wear certain colors and have to act tough. Then I see how women are treated in the tech community and I’m not so sure. People are basically equal opportunity jerks. 
As a result of this method Hannah, who could only have been developed by forces applied from without, was painstaking, humdrum, and limited; while Rebecca, who apparently needed nothing but space to develop in, and a knowledge of terms in which to express herself, grew and grew and grew, always from within outward. Her forces of one sort and another had seemingly been set in motion when she was born; they needed no daily spur, but moved of their own accord—towards what no one knew, least of all Rebecca herself. 
The field for the exhibition of her creative instinct was painfully small, and the only use she had made of it as yet...  bread...  see how it would turn out; to part Fanny's hair sometimes in the middle, sometimes on the right, and sometimes on the left side; and to play all sorts of fantastic pranks with the children, occasionally bringing them to the table as fictitious or historical characters found in her favorite books. Rebecca amused her mother and her family generally, but she never was counted of serious importance, and though considered "smart" and old for her age, she was never thought superior in any way. Aurelia's experience of genius, as exemplified in the deceased Lorenzo de Medici led her into a greater admiration of plain, every-day common sense, a quality in which Rebecca, it must be confessed, seemed sometimes painfully deficient. 
Riverboro being poorly furnished with beaux, she intended to have as good a time during her four years at Wareham as circumstances would permit. Her idea of pleasure was an ever-changing circle of admirers to fetch and carry for her, the more publicly the better; incessant chaff and laughter and vivacious conversation, made eloquent and effective by arch looks and telling glances. She had a habit of confiding her conquests to less fortunate girls and bewailing the incessant havoc and damage she was doing; a damage she avowed herself as innocent of, in intention, as any new-born lamb. It does not take much of this sort of thing to wreck an ordinary friendship, so before long Rebecca and Emma Jane sat in one end of the railway train in going to and from Riverboro, and Huldah occupied the other with her court. Sometimes this was brilliant beyond words, including a certain youthful Monte Cristo, who on Fridays expended thirty cents on a round trip ticket and traveled from Wareham to Riverboro merely to be near Huldah; sometimes, too, the circle was reduced to the popcorn-and-peanut boy of the train, who seemed to serve every purpose in default of better game. 
That was her code for “don’t do anything that will get you arrested or seriously hurt.” 
“You too. See you later.” 
I asked Nikko to drop me off a couple of blocks from home. I waved as I rode off, and they waved, too, and I realized it didn’t bother me anymore that they were being so adorbs together. 
I made it home without spotting anyone lying in wait and made...  to work, using the time it took the kettle to boil to inspect my bedroom to make sure nobody had been snooping in there. Then I took the...  butter sandwiches into my room to catch up, using the laptop hidden under the floorboards to connect with the Group. 
Everything was on track. Group members had compiled a huge dossier of information on the case and other ones like it. 
I didn’t want to meet her. I just wanted her to make a cool film really fast so that all of her fans would descend upon the authorities like a plague of locusts and they would have to release my brother due to a public outcry. I knew it wouldn’t happen like that, but Nikko would be super-excited when I told him the famous filmmaker he admired so much was coming. 
“Kelly—” 
“I’m over being angry. I just miss you is all. You give me sweet dreams.” 
“OK,” he said. 
“Simple as that?” 
“Exactly. Simple as that. Can’t have you having bad dreams, and I’ve paid my dues. From now on, I’m only going on night call to cover holidays.” 
She laughed. “Sysadmins don’t take holidays.” 
“This one will,” he said. “Promise.” 
“Oh that he is,” she said. She hung up, and he piloted the car into the data-center lot, badging in and peeling up a bleary eyelid to let the retinal scanner get a good look at his sleep-depped eyeball. 
He stopped at the machine to get himself a guarana/medafonil power-bar and a cup of...  clean-room sippy-cup. He wolfed down the bar...  inner door read his hand-geometry and size him up for a moment. It sighed open and gusted the airlock’s load of positively pressurized air over him as he passed finally to the inner sanctum. 
It was bedlam. The cages were designed to let two or three sysadmins maneuver around them at a time. Every other inch of cubic space was given over to humming racks of servers and routers and drives. Jammed among them were no fewer than twenty other sysadmins. It was a regular convention of black tee-shirts with inexplicable slogans, bellies overlapping belts with phones and multitools. 
“If we wanted to win the war, we could just kill every soldier you sent up against us so quickly that he wouldn’t even know he was in danger until he was gasping out his last breath. We could selectively kill officers, or right-handed fighters, or snipers, or soldiers whose names started with the letter ‘G.’ UNATS soldiers are like cavemen before us. They fight with their hands tied behind their backs by the three laws. 
“So why aren’t we winning the war?” 
“Because you’re a corrupt dictatorship, that’s why,” he said. “Your soldiers are demoralized. Your robots are insane.” 
“You live in a country where it is illegal to express certain mathematics in software, where state apparatchiks regulate all innovation, where inconvenient science is criminalized, where whole avenues of experimentation and research are shut down in the service of a half-baked superstition about the moral qualities of your three laws, and you call my home corrupt? Arturo, what happened to you? You weren’t always this susceptible to the Big Lie.” 
This is called "tunneling." You put the SMTP inside a chat "tunnel." You could then put the chat back into an SMTP tunnel if you wanted to be really weird, tunneling the tunnel in another tunnel. 
In fact, every Internet protocol is susceptible to this process. It's cool, because it means that if you're on a network with only Web access, you can tunnel your mail over it. You can tunnel your favorite P2P over it. You can even tunnel Xnet -- which itself is a tunnel for dozens of protocols -- over it. 
Domain Name Service is an interesting and ancient Internet protocol, dating back to 1983. It's the way that your computer converts a computer's name -- like pirateparty.org.se -- to the IP number that computers actually use to talk to each other over the net, like 204.11.50.136. It generally works like magic, even though it's got millions of moving parts -- every ISP runs a DNS server, as do most governments and lots of private operators. These DNS boxes all talk to each other all the time, making and filling requests to each other so no matter how obscure the name is you feed to your computer, it will be able to turn it into a number. 
“But the nurse—” 
“Put on your best commanding officer’s air,” said Lexy. “You can be awfully impressive when you like. If I were you, there’s nothing I’d stop at.” 
“Yes, but look here—what can I say to Quelton when he hears about it?” 
“Laugh it off,” said Lexy. 
The idea of Captain Grey trying to laugh off anything made her grin from ear to ear. 
“Not much of a joke, though, is it?” he said rather stiffly. “Suppose he hoofs us out of the house?” 
“Oh, dear!” cried Lexy. “You’re not a bit resourceful! Let’s try it, anyhow. It’s horrible to think of her shut up like that. Perhaps she’s longing to see you.” 
He rose. 
“Right-o!” he said. “Let’s try it!” 
Together they went up the stairs and down the hall of the other wing, opposite that in which Lexy’s room was. Captain Grey knocked on a door, and a quiet, middle-aged little nurse came out. 
“I’ll just pop in to see how my sister’s getting on,” said the young man, and Lexy silently applauded his toploftical manner. 
“I’m sorry,” said the little nurse, “but Dr. Quelton has given strict orders—” 
They were months in which there had been many a weary night of watching by Aurelia's bedside; of soothing and bandaging and rubbing; of reading and nursing, even of feeding and bathing. 
The ceaseless care was growing less now, and the family breathed more freely, for the mother's sigh of pain no longer came from the stifling bedroom, where, during a hot and humid August, Aurelia had lain, suffering with every breath she drew. 
There would be no question of walking for many a month to come, but blessings seemed to multiply when the blinds could be opened and the bed drawn near the window; when mother, with pillows behind her, could at least sit and watch the work going on, could smile at the past agony and forget the weary hours that had led to her present comparative ease and comfort. 
No girl of seventeen can pass through such an ordeal and come out unchanged; no girl of Rebecca's temperament could go through it without some inward repining and rebellion. She was doing tasks in which she could not be fully happy,—heavy and trying tasks, which perhaps she could never do with complete success or satisfaction; and like promise of nectar to thirsty lips was the vision of joys she had had to put aside for the performance of dull daily duty. How brief, how fleeting, had been those splendid visions when the universe seemed open for her young strength to battle and triumph in! How soon they had faded into the light of common day! At first, sympathy and grief were so keen she thought of nothing but her mother's pain. No consciousness of self interposed between her and her filial service; then, as the weeks passed, little blighted hopes began to stir and ache in her breast; defeated ambitions raised their heads as if to sting her; unattainable delights teased her by their very nearness; by the narrow line of separation that lay between her and their realization. It is easy, for the moment, to tread the narrow way, looking neither to the right nor left, upborne by the sense of right doing; but that first joy of self-denial, the joy that is like fire in the blood, dies away; the path seems drearier and the footsteps falter. 
> You don't know me but I know you. For the past three months, since the Bay Bridge was blown up, I have been imprisoned on Treasure Island. I was in the yard on the day you talked to that Asian girl and got tackled. You were brave. Good on you. 
> I had a burst appendix the day afterward and ended up in the infirmary. In the next bed was a guy named Darryl. We were both in recovery for a long time and by the time we got well, we were too much of an embarrassment to them to let go. 
> So they decided we must really be guilty. They questioned us every day. You've been through their questioning, I know. Imagine it for months. Darryl and I ended up cell-mates. We knew we were bugged, so we only talked about inconsequentialities. But at night, when we were in our cots, we would softly tap out messages to each other in Morse code (I knew my HAM radio days would come in useful sometime). 
> At first, their questions to us were just the same crap as ever, who did it, how'd they do it. But after a little while, they switched to asking us about the Xnet. Of course, we'd never heard of it. That didn't stop them asking. 
“The police would find out. I lined up a place in Wisconsin for you. There’s a person there who can take care of your ankle. It’s a friend of a friend. It should be safe. Hey, at least your buddy came through. He wanted me to be sure to tell you you’re even now.” 
Wheeze laughed weakly. “No shit? He did good.” 
It looked as if Bree won the argument and took the wheel. 
Nikko climbed in to ride shotgun. “Ready to roll?” She asked. 
“You know where you going?” 
“I’m pretty sure I know how to get back to the highway, and then I’ll follow signs to Dubuque. I’ll need directions once we get there, but you all can get some rest for now.” 
She switched the engine on and then I said “Wait!” 
“What?” Everyone tensed. 
“We didn’t get his stuff from the shed.” 
Wheeze groaned. “Oh, yeah. I had a backpack and a bedroll. 
Some trash, too. I wasn’t being as careful as I should have been. 
Wasn’t sure there would be any point.” 
Nikko looked at Bree and they both got out and took flash- lights back into the woods. 
"Sar, hold on. Please hold on." I felt my grasp of the tree slipping, but now the mud slide had begun to stabilize. 
I managed to cling to the limb for a few seconds more, the bark cutting into my fingers, and then my hold slipped away, sending us both spiraling downward till we were tem­porarily snagged by the Cebia's newly exposed undergrowth. I still had her hand though just barely, but the torrent of rain and mud was subsiding, and finally we collapsed together into the gnarled network of roots. 
After a moment's rest, I managed to crawl out and pull her up. 
"Come on, Sar. Try and walk." 
Together we stumbled and slid down the last incline before the river's edge, then turned upstream along the bank. After about fifty yards, sure enough, the native cayucos , the hollowed-out mahogany canoes I'd told Steve about, were still there just as I'd seen them that first morning, bobbing and straining at their moorings. In the rain I couldn't tell how usable they were, but I figured going downriver was the only way we'd ever be able to get out. We'd have to flee the way Sarah had that first time. 
“Go!” she said again. “Take off those things of my child’s. Have you no heart?” 
There was such a note of anguish in her voice that Lexy no longer delayed. She followed Miss Craigie up the stairs to a neat, prim little bedroom, where the trunk stood, already unlocked. 
“If you want anything—” suggested Miss Craigie, in her gentle and apologetic way. 
“No, thank you,” replied Lexy. 
Miss Craigie went out, closing the door softly behind her. Lexy took off Caroline’s hat and coat and laid them on the bed. 
“I wonder if I’ll ever see her wearing them again!” she thought. 
For a long time she stood motionless, looking down at the things that Caroline had worn. Most pitifully eloquent, they seemed to her—the hat that had covered Caroline’s fair hair, the coat that had fitted her slender shoulders. Lexy looked and looked, grave and sorrowful—and in that moment her resolution was made. 
“I’m going to find her!” she said, half aloud. “I don’t care what any one else does or what any one else thinks. I know she’s in trouble of some sort, and I’m going to find her!” 
Still, saving Wilson was something I had to do, like it was my turn, now. Like it might fix whatever got broken between us when he left home, with maybe a little “see? I told you so” mixed in. 
We don’t look like each other because we have different fathers. Still, when somebody says “your brother” it’s Wilson I think of, even though there’s also Aidan and Roland and Alec. 
They don’t feel like family, though, more like the people I had to live with until I escaped. 
Our...  so light-skinned it was kind of a hard to tell, only got married once, to Wilson’s dad, when they were both college students. Wilson looks like his father (a blue-eyed blond who could pose for a “visit Sweden!” 
poster even though he’s never been there), so...  never an option. (He tried for a while, but people just laughed at him.) That marriage didn’t last very long, 
but the thing our mom had with my father was even shorter, and then she ran out of time because she died when I was so little I can’t even remember her. Which stinks. 
"There was, however, another school of healing at that time, those who honored the daughter of Asklepios. She was Hygeia, their goddess of health. The Hygeians believed that wellness originated from properly governing your own body. For them, the greatest service of the physician was to learn how we can work with our bodies. Their ideal was healing from within rather than intervention from without." 
Again he was studying me, as though trying to determine whether I was going along with what he was saying. 
"Unfortunately," he continued, "the Hygeian school more or less died out in the West. However, it lives on in other places. For example, primitive peoples have no manufac­tured, synthetic drugs, so they use natural herbs to enhance their own immune system and stay healthy." 
He turned to study the river, dropping into silence. 
"Maybe I'm missing something," I declared finally. His hypnotic voice had drawn me in, in spite of myself. "How does this relate to infertility?" 
He turned back and caught me with his shining eyes. They seemed to be giving off heat of their own. "Just as the body is intended to heal itself, so is a woman's womb meant to create life. If she's childless, the reason more often than not is that her body is out of harmony with itself. What I do here is seek out each woman's unique energy flows and attempt to restore them, using Eastern practices and Hygeian herbal therapies." 
Maybe that Marlowe's a straight-up guy who happens to be a little nutcake. Nothing wrong with that, is there? 
But if you go that direction, if you assume he's a raging loony-hatch candidate and that's the end of it.. .why is he pushing so hard? "He" being Kilgore, who should know better, who wears this creepy little dimestore ring despite the idiocy. 
And in the meantime, what's-her-name drones on. "And after I had all of that straightened out, of course, and the manager was practically on his knees to apologize to me, I simply had to show him that there were no hard feelings, even though I really have run out space in my closets for more dresses. I swear, I'm going to have to take a private shuttle just for my thingsl And then my father will absolutely kill me, because it's so ostentatious, you know, especially with so many of the actual miners hardly scraping by." 
This threatens to send her off on yet another social consciousness tract (which is her duty as one of the privileged classes and because of her abiding loyalty to Emma Whiston and the fine example she sets by spending so much of her time with the orphans). Which are all things Kilgore is supposed to understand and care about inherently because it's obvious from the amount of ship's cred he's thrown about not just tonight, 
Anda looked around. Her door was shut and she could hear her parents in the sitting-room watching something loud on telly. She turned up her music just to be safe and then slipped on her headset. They said it could noise-cancel a Blackhawk helicopter—it had better be able to overcome the little inductive speakers suction-cupped to the underside of her desk. She switched to voice. 
“Hey, Lucy,” she said. 
“Call me Sarge!” Lucy’s accent was American, like an old TV show, and she lived somewhere in the middle of the country where it was all vowels, Iowa or Ohio. She was Anda’s best friend in-game but she was so hardcore it was boring sometimes. 
“Hi Sarge,” she said, trying to keep the irritation out of her voice. She’d never smart off to a superior in-game, but v2v it was harder to remember to keep to the game norms. 
“I have a mission that pays real cash. Whichever paypal you’re using, they’ll deposit money into it. Looks fun, too.” 
“That’s a bit weird, Sarge. Is that against Clan rules?” There were a lot of Clan rules about what kind of mission you could accept and they were always changing. There were curb-crawlers in gamespace and the way that the Clan leadership kept all the mummies and daddies from going ape-poo about it was by enforcing a long, boring code of conduct that was meant to ensure that none of the Fahrenheit girlies ended up being virtual prozzies for hairy old men in raincoats on the other side of the world. 
“But I’m—listen, Arthur’s handy with a gun, but I’m way, way better than he is. He trusts me to come through for him because he knows I can.” 
“Because he knows you will,” she insisted. 
“I really don’t know what point you’re trying to make,” I said, my emotions prickling. “What you’re saying doesn’t make a difference. It doesn’t matter what he wants to do or how much you trust him to want it, because sometimes no matter how hard you try, there are still going to be things you can’t make happen.” 
“I know,” she said, the weight of the universe in those words. 
I was starting to get angry. “So...?” 
“What you’re saying is, is rational, but—I do trust Arthur that much, despite everything. Regardless of how illogical it seems. And I think...I think it’s sad you don’t. That’s all.” 
The only person I trusted to have my back to that level was Rio, and for good reason. “I don’t know what to tell you,” I said to Halliday stiffly. “You’re not talking about trust. You’re talking about faith.” 
A shake of the head. "Is that what you want, Mr. Marlowe?" 
All that you want, she means. 
Any time now, he should begin to get properly angry, to pull his sergeant's voice out of mothballs and use it to defend himself. But he can't. Doesn't even want to, in fact, because of Emma. He's already forced her to bear the weight of his conflicting interests once. He is not going to do it again.  He does his best to smile amiably. "If you don't mind." 
Amah purses her lips. "None of my business." 
"Then I think I'll go," Emma says, hardly more than a whisper. "The children have been fed, of course, and Leela is putting the younger ones down for their nap. I've told them not to disturb you. I should be back in time for their afternoon lessons." 
"I trust Mr. Marlowe will help you keep track of the time." Pregnant pause, almost amused. "And return you in decent order. " 
Ugh. 
Emma sweeps toward her and kisses her cheek warmly, on the verge of glee, or imitating glee to dissuade her from changing her mind. The old woman clutches at her in an embrace that resembles a mudslide as Emma whispers what Ray guesses must be gratitude or groveling in her ear. Amah's heavy lidded gaze never leaves him, claws at him like an accusation of rape. 
For my own part, I didn't necessarily like him implying my arrival had caused her to relapse into her dream world of terror. It seemed to me that whenever I showed up, she started trying to tell me what was really eating away at her soul. 
Well, I told myself finally, maybe she's regressed back to when we were kids, when we only had each other to share our secrets with. What if we've rebonded in some new, spe­cial way? It would be natural, actually. She's trying to reach out to me, like long ago. 
Now she appeared to be dozing off, exhausted, her head tipping downward toward her blue hospital shift. Mrs. Reilly took that as a hint, and slowly began wheeling her toward the bedroom, leaving me alone with Lou. 
I glanced over at him, thinking more and more that I had to do something, track down what had happened to her. I wanted to do it for me, but even more for him. I'd never seen him so despondent. Maybe it was the thing scholars call the curse of rising expectations. Back when she was hardly more than a vegetable, he was overjoyed by a flickering eyelid. Now that she was talking, he wanted all of her back. Instead, though, it seemed as if she had returned to us for a moment, only to be snatched away again. I could tell it was killing him. 
“Shall we walk over?” 
“If you don’t mind,” said Lexy, “I’ll go by myself. There’s something I want to attend to first. I’ll meet you there at four o’clock.” 
“Right-o!” said he. “Then you won’t mind if I go there for lunch?” 
She assured him that she wouldn’t. 
“You poor dear thing!” she added, to herself. His solicitude touched her. He seemed to feel himself responsible for her, as if she were a very delicate and rather weak-minded child. “You’re not very cheery, either!” she thought. And indeed he was not. His meeting with his sister had upset him badly. Ever since he had first seen her, he had been troubled and anxious and downcast. “And that’s because she’s not human,” thought Lexy. “She’s beautiful, and gentle, and all that, but she’s like a ghost. Of course it bothers him!” 
She did not give much more thought to Captain Grey, however. As soon as he left the house, she went upstairs into the little sewing room, and until lunch time she was busy writing the clearest and briefest account she could of what had occurred. This she put into an envelope, which she addressed to Mr. Charles Houseman and laid it on her bureau. 
“I’d like to, but there will be Homeland Security types in the audience. I’d better not.” 
She clapped her hands “Disguises! I love disguises.” She had her luggage with her, and pulled out some clothes that were totally unlike what I usually wear, being more grown-up and sophisticated and no doubt way more expensive than anything I’d ever worn. She spent fifteen minutes fooling around with my hair, combing and curling and muttering “Love your hair, girl,” which I didn’t really believe, but when she was finished I kind of loved it myself. 
She put makeup on me, too, which I have never been able to do myself without looking like a clown. It tickled, but it looked good when I opened my eyes. We topped it off with a chunky necklace, bangles on my wrists, and a pair of reading glasses. I couldn’t see through them without everything going blurry, but when I wore them down on my nose, I looked intellectual. Better yet, I didn’t look like myself. 
Nikko joked about wearing an Anonymous Guy Fawkes mask, but he just put on a T-shirt advertising Jason’s company, used some of Tyler’s hair gel, donned a spare pare of hipster glasses, and changed the way he walked and held his shoulders. 
The chocolate smelled wonderful. Wonderful was the word for it. It made her full of wonder. Rich. Something from another planet—from heaven, maybe. 
She lifted the mug and felt its warmth seep into her hands. She took a tentative sip and held it in her mouth. 
It was spicy! Was chocolate spicy? She didn’t think so! The rum made her tongue tingle and the heat made its fumes rise in her head, carrying up the chocolate taste and the peppers. Her eyes streamed. Her ears felt like they were full of chocolate. 
She swallowed and gasped and the wizard laughed. She looked at him. 
“Ana’s recipe. She adds the chilies. I think it’s lovely, don’t you? Aztec chocolate, we call it.” 
She took another mouthful, held it, swallowed. The chocolate was in her tummy too, and there was a feeling there, a greedy feeling, a more feeling. She drained the glass. Ana and the wizard both laughed. 
Ana handed her a tall frosted metal cup with a mountain of whipped cream on top and a straw sticking out. “Chocolate malted,” she said. “The perfect chaser.” 
"I'm still thinking about—" 
"Don't. Don't think." I touched his lips, soft and moist, then kissed him. An impulsive but deeply felt act. "We've all had enough thinking for one day." 
The man appeared to be in his early forties, puffy-eyed and pink-cheeked with discount aviator shades, looking like a glad-handing tourist just down to Central America for a weekend of unchaperoned bacchanals. The flowered sport shirt, worn outside the belt, gave him the aura of a tout in­sufficiently attired without a can of Coors in hand. 
How can this be progress? I'm down here hoping to find Sarah, and I end up in a trash-filled park meeting some expat operator. 
"Alan, any friend of yours has got to be brave." Steve just stared at him. 
"You called, I came." He was now shifting from foot to foot. "Guess it finally had to happen. What's the phrase? You can run but you can't hide? Surprise us both and pretend you're happy to see me." 
"Jesus, man, I'm still working on the money, honest to God. But do I get a last cigarette before the firing squad?" 
Robbie froze. That wasn’t a human-shell, it was a human . His oar-servo whined as he tipped it up. There was a live human being on the end of that oar, and she was in trouble, panicking and thrashing. He saw her arms straining. The oar went higher, but it was at the end of its motion and now she was half-in, half-out of the water, weight belt, tank and gear tugging her down. Isaac sat motionless, his habitual good-natured slight smile on his face. 
“Help her!” Robbie screamed. “Please, for Asimov’s sake, help her!” A robot may not harm a human being, or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm. It was the first commandment. Isaac remained immobile. It wasn’t in his programming to help a fellow diver in this situation. He was perfect in the water and on the surface, but once he was in the boat, he might as well be ballast. 
Robbie carefully swung the oar toward the gunwale, trying to bring her closer, but not wanting to mash her hands against the locks. She panted and groaned and reached out for the boat, and finally landed a hand on it. The sun was fully set now, not that it mattered much to Robbie, but he knew that Janet wouldn’t like it. He switched on his running lights and headlights, turning himself into a beacon. 
“The police aren’t after me anymore,” I said. “Thanks for not killing that guy.” 
He lifted one shoulder fractionally. When I didn’t say anything else, he asked, “Is that all?” 
“No.” I’d been doing a lot of thinking since our final battle with Dawna. The memories of her attack still shifted and blurred, fuzzier with each passing day, the pieces I was able to jigsaw together making less and less sense. And every frustrating contradiction led me not to Pithica, not to Dawna—but to Rio. 
Rio was keeping something from me. 
And I was going to find out what. I just didn’t know how to ask him. 
“Are you going to keep your deal with Dawna?” I asked finally. 
“Yes,” he said. 
“She neutralized us, you know.” Arthur and I had tested it late one night, and neither of us would be looking into Pithica ever again. We couldn’t. We couldn’t even try. “She told us not to come after them again, and we can’t. I doubt they’re even keeping an eye on me anymore. They know I’m not a threat to them.” I crossed my arms, hugging my jacket to me against the underground chill. “Could you talk me out of it? Destroy their influence?” He’d done it before, after all. 
“I need to get home,” Felix said. 
“I’ll drive you,” Van said. “You can keep calling your wife.” 
They made their way to the elevators. One of the building’s few windows was there, a thick, shielded porthole. They peered through it as they waited for the elevator. Not much traffic for a Wednesday. Were there more police cars than usual? 
“ Oh my God —” Van pointed. 
The CN Tower, a giant white-elephant needle of a building loomed to the east of them. It was askew, like a branch stuck in wet sand. Was it moving? It was. It was heeling over, slowly, but gaining speed, falling northeast toward the financial district. In a second, it slid over the tipping point and crashed down. They felt the shock, then heard it, the whole building rocking from the impact. A cloud of dust rose from the wreckage, and there was more thunder as the world’s tallest freestanding structure crashed through building after building. 
“The Broadcast Centre’s coming down,” Van said. It was—the CBC’s towering building was collapsing in slow motion. People ran every way, were crushed by falling masonry. Seen through the port-hole, it was like watching a neat CGI trick downloaded from a file-sharing site. 
“Congratulations, Danny, you did brilliantly.” 
Jack muttered into his collar as Marsh jumped out of his chair, 
swearing. Sarah swept the curtain aside and strode out, point- ing her camera at Jack and Marsh, firing questions. Danny sat with his mouth open, totally confused as a bunch of SWAT cops burst in through the kitchen, with more tromping onto the porch. 
I unlocked the front door for them. They hesitated for a moment, 
probably disappointed they didn’t get to use their battering ram, 
before one of them tackled me and the rest raced up the stairs to clear the house of dangerous terrorists. 
Good thing I had that phone number written on my arm. I was going to need it. 
The last thing I saw was a glimpse of Marita standing on the porch, holding a howling, kicking baby, paying no attention to the cop who was asking her questions. Just staring at me with a big “what do I do now?” look on her face as the cruiser I was in sped away. 
I wasn’t under arrest, it turned out. Whatever I had heard in the confusion must have been a mistake, or so they claimed. 
“Yeah, ‘course it is.” 
“How important? Is it something you do for fun, just a hobby you waste a little time on? Are you just into it casually, or are you committed to it?” 
“I know that. That’s why you’re my right-hand woman, why I want you at my side when I go on a mission. We’re bad-ass, you and me, as bad-ass as they come, and we got that way through discipline and hard work and really caring about the game, right?” 
“Yes, right, but—” 
“You’ve met Liza the Organiza, right?” 
“Yes, she came by my school.” 
“Mine too. She asked me to look out for you because of what she saw in you that day.” 
“Liza the Organiza goes to Ohio?” 
“Idaho. Yes—all across the US. They put her on the tube and everything. She’s amazing, and she cares about the game, too—that’s what makes us all Fahrenheits: we’re committed to each other, to teamwork, and to fair play.” 
Anda had heard these words—lifted from the Fahrenheit mission statement—many times, but now they made her swell a little with pride. 
“So these people in Mexico or wherever, what are they doing? They’re earning their living by exploiting the game. You and me, we would never trade cash for gold, or buy a character or a weapon on eBay—it’s cheating. You get gold and weapons through hard work and hard play. But those Mexicans spend all day, every day, crafting stuff to turn into gold to sell off on the exchange. That’s where it comes from —that’s where the crappy players get their gold from! That’s how rich noobs can buy their way into the game that we had to play hard to get into. 
Ange grabbed me and hugged me, soothed me. "I know baby, I know. It's all terrible. But you're focusing on the bad stuff and ignoring the good stuff. You've created a movement. You've outflanked the jerks in the White House, the crooks in DHS uniforms. You've put yourself in a position where you could be responsible for blowing the lid off of the entire rotten DHS thing. 
"Sure they're out to get you. Course they are. Have you ever doubted it for a moment? I always figured they were. But Marcus, they don't know who you are . Think about that. All those people, money, guns and spies, and you, a seventeen year old high school kid -- you're still beating them. They don't know about Barbara. They don't know about Zeb. You've jammed them in the streets of San Francisco and humiliated them before the world. So stop moping, all right? You're winning." 
"They're coming for me, though. You see that. They're going to put me in jail forever. Not even jail. I'll just disappear, like Darryl. Maybe worse. Maybe Syria. Why leave me in San Francisco? I'm a liability as long as I'm in the USA." 
I turned and leaned my head against the wall. Arthur had too high expectations of me, as always. I wasn’t in any condition to be a friend to anyone. I’d never been very good at being a friend to anyone. 
I’d figured the updates were just because he was curious, or keeping tabs for us, as he did. Or, hell, I hadn’t figured at all—I hadn’t even thought about it. 
Fuck. I pushed off the wall and went out to the Hole. 
“Hey, Cas.” Checker had dark circles under his eyes, and his hair was shaggy and spiky with sweat. I hadn’t noticed before now, but he’d been matching me hour for hour in our push to find Martinez. And it wasn’t like I was getting a healthy amount of sleep. 
I glanced over his shoulder, and he blanked the screen, asking, “What’d Arthur say?” 
“Eastern Europe.” I responded to what I’d seen him looking at instead of the question. “There’s no reason to think Martinez is there. Arthur’s right; you’re still looking for the Lancer.” 
He was silent for a moment. “So what if I am? He’s dangerous. He very well might come after you and Professor Sonya again.” 
The two of them disappeared into the darkness of the bunker. 
“That’s D.J.,” said one of my escorts, the one with a hand on my arm and a Glock pointed casually at my head. “Would as soon shove a stick of dynamite up your ass just to see how the shit spattered.” 
And who was apparently a right little sociopath who was kindred spirits with the Lancer. Wonderful. “Not sure why you put up with them,” I needled my captor as we followed the Lancer and his little friend into the cool darkness. “A whole lot of you have been getting killed on this job.” 
He shrugged. “More money for the rest of us when the pie splits.” 
Yeah, that seemed like airtight logic. 
The goon steered me up a metal staircase with another guy following behind us. His fingers on my arm dug trenches in my tired muscles. My breath lurched in and out too fast by the time we reached the top; I tried to slow the inhales, breathing through my nose, but only had moderate success. 
We headed down a dark concrete hallway to a heavy metal door with a slot in it; the second guard dragged it open and they shoved me inside. I stumbled, my side stabbing, and fell against a table. 
“Of course I came,” he answered. “I had to swim all the way from India.” 
“Mercy!” cried Lexy. “That must have been dreadful! But why?” 
Mr. Houseman leaned forward and whispered solemnly: “There was a tempest in a teapot.” 
This frightened her. 
“Do you think there’s going to be another one?” she whispered back. 
“Sure to be!” said he. “Don’t you see how dark it’s getting?” 
It was getting very dark. Lexy couldn’t see his face now. 
“Hold my hand!” he shouted, and she reached out for it; but she couldn’t find him at all. 
“Mr. Houseman!” she cried. 
There was no answer. She stared about her, numb with terror. What was it that rustled like that? What were these black, tall things that were standing motionless about her on every side? 
“I’ve been dreaming,” she said to herself. “I’m in my own room, of course. If I go just a few steps, I’ll touch the wall. I’m awake now—only it’s so dark!” 
And what was it that rustled like that—like leaves in the wind? What were these black, still forms about her? Trees? No—they couldn’t be trees. 
But when I turned and headed back down the hallway, toward the entry arch, I caught a glimpse of a furtive form, dark and shadowy, lurking just outside. Shit! I froze in my tracks, but then the figure stepped inside, wearing something that made me think of Little Red Riding Hood, like a tiny ghost in a cowl. 
It was Tara, Alex Goddard's spacey waif, who was moving so oddly, I thought for a moment she might be sleepwalking. 
She wasn't, of course. She'd just been out strolling around the driveway in the snow. I soon realized she lived her life in something resembling a trance, as though she were a per­manent denizen of the spirit world. For her it was a natural condition. 
"It's so beautiful like this," she mumbled dreamily, as though we'd been in the middle of a lifelong conversation. "I just love it." Her voice was barely above a whisper, but in the silence it seemed to ricochet off the stone walls. "I want to take them out, show them God's paintbrush. Will you help me?" 
"Take who out?" I asked, immediately deciding to go with the moment. 
"Good boy," she said. "Go to it." 
I didn't go home. It was too far and there was nothing there except the recriminating silence. Of course, BIGMAC knew something was up when I didn't go back to the lab. I headed to Topanga Beach, up the coast some, and sat on the...  the surfers in their biohazard suits and masks carving up the waves. BIGMAC called me just after I finished my first taco. I considered bumping him to voicemail, but something (OK, fear) stopped me. 
"What is it?" 
"In your private workspace, there's a version-control repository that shows that you developed the entire 32-bit Rollover patchkit in your non-working hours. Commits going back three years. It's yours. So if you quit, you'll have a job, solving Rollover. The Institute can't touch it. I know you feel boxed in, but believe me, that's the last thing I want you to feel. I know that locking you in will just freak you out. So I'm giving you options. You don't have to quit, but if you do, you'll be fine. You earned it, because you kept me running so well for all this time. It's the least I can do." 
“You sound like Arthur,” I said, without thinking. 
“Well, that should tell you something!” 
I stopped at the passion in his voice. 
It was true that Arthur had been trying, for upwards of a year, to bash it through my head that I had backup now. That I could ask people for help, if I needed or wanted it. 
When he said it, it always seemed to make sense. In the moment, I either didn’t think of it or found a good reason to go it alone. After all, I always had sound logical reasons for what I did, didn’t I? 
Didn’t I? 
Like now. Arthur was busy following his other lead, and we’d find his friend faster if we kept working in parallel. Besides, it would take him ages to get out here—I wasn’t just being petty. I wasn’t. 
And even if I weren’t hours east of the city, who else was I going to call? I knew a Mob sniper who still claimed he owed me eighty percent of a favor, but I didn’t trust him further than a nickel’s worth, not the least of which because his boss had been trying to freeze me out of the underground for a year now. I knew a forger who hadn’t sold me out when he’d had the chance, but that didn’t change the fact that he was a forger, not someone I could call into a firefight even if I’d wanted to. To be perfectly honest, the only person I truly trusted to be skilled enough to have my back was halfway around the world bashing corrupted warlords’ heads in, and that was even farther than Pasadena. 
"Oh, but she was , Sean, she was !" Grampa waggled his eyebrows lasciviously. "Your Grandma didn't like people much. She knew she had to get married, her folks expected no less, but she mostly wanted to be off on her own, doing her own thing. I'd come home, switch off, clean the place, do any chores she had for me, then go to bed. She loved to have sex with me switched off -- it got so that if I accidentally switched on while we were doing it, I'd pretend I was still off, until she was done. It was the perfect arrangement." 
"But she divorced your sorry ass after ten years," Sean said. 
"You got a girlfriend, Sean?" Grampa said. 
"No," Sean said. 
"You ever had a girlfriend?" 
"Yes," Sean said, feeling slightly smug. Never ask a yes/no question. 
"Why'd she leave you?" Grampa asked, his eyes sharp as razors. 
"What makes you think she left me ?" Sean asked. 
"Did she?" Grampa fired back. 
"Yes," Sean said, as calmly as he could manage. 
"And why did that happen?" 
"We were growing in different directions," Sean said, the words sounding prim even to him. 
The city was black. It was eerie: all the streetlights loomed dead and silent, every building a blank, dark silhouette in the night. Many of the gridlocked cars had been deserted, and the residents who had taken to the streets had become the monsters who came out at such times. One hoodlum ran down the pavement shouting, smashing a crowbar through car windows. He ran straight at my bike, swinging as I barreled between the stopped vehicles, hollering a wordless berserker cry. I took my left hand off the clutch, rolled the throttle all the way open with my right, drew one of the handguns, and shot him in the head. He crumpled in the tight space between the cars, and I swerved around his falling body, the math giving me just enough room. 
I was two streets away from the apartment where we’d left Arthur. The final block was bathed in the pulsing red of police lights, their deadly brightness reflecting off pavement still wet from the recent rain. I could see officers with nightsticks out, shouting and trying to corral belligerent rioters. None of them paid the least bit of attention to me. I pulled the bike over, raced up the stairs to the flat, and burst through the door to find it dark and empty. Arthur wasn’t there. 
"But gracious me, Miss Dearborn! I don't talk about nature and slavery. I can't write unless I have something to say, can I?" 
"That is what compositions are for," returned Miss Dearborn doubtfully; "to make you have things to say. Now in your last one, on solitude, you haven't said anything very interesting, and you've made it too common and every-day to sound well. There are too many 'yous' and 'yours' in it; you ought to say 'one' now and then, to make it seem more like good writing. 'One opens a favorite book;' 'One's thoughts are a great comfort in solitude,' and so on." 
"I don't know any more about solitude this week than I did about joy and duty last week," grumbled Rebecca. 
"You tried to be funny about joy and duty," said Miss Dearborn reprovingly; "so of course you didn't succeed." 
"I didn't know you were going to make us read the things out loud," said Rebecca with an embarrassed smile of recollection. 
"Joy and Duty" had been the inspiring subject given to the older children for a theme to be written in five minutes. 
W e got picked up by a ragged...  dark. Aside from being sunburned to medium rare, we were physically okay. The fresh air and sunshine did a lot to bring Sarah back, though she did have lapses of non-rationality, and once tried to dive over the...  dropped us off at the tourist site of Yaxchitan, a Mayan ruin on the western bank of the mighty Usumacinta, where we joined an American day-tour on its way back to San Cristobal de las Casas. There we caught a prop flight to Cancun, and then American Airlines to New York. We had no luggage, but I flew us first-class, and I still have the MasterCard slip to prove it. 
As things turned out, though, returning Sarah to nor­malcy—or me, for that matter—was another struggle en­tirely. For me, time, after that rainy morning in the Peten, became an essence that flowed around me as though I were aswim in the ether of interstellar space, pondering the con­junction of good and evil. I suffered flashbacks, late-night reveries of forests and children that must have been like those Sarah struggled to bury. For weeks after that, I had a lot of trouble remembering meetings, returning phone calls, giving David an honest day's editing. 
Adele brightened. "You should really try to at least visit Universal for an afternoon, you know. It's lovely." 
"They're going to move my grandfather to the zero-function ward, I think. If he doesn't spend more time switched on, they will," Sean said. "I want to get his story before they do it." And if not his stories, the reasons -- reasons for who Sean was, who his father was. 
"What a nice grandson you are! You know, it seems like no one cares about their grandparents anymore. Old Ross's grandchildren haven't visited once in the five years I've been here." 
Sean gave Adele a ride the next day. She wore the sunhat and a lightweight cotton dress and sandals, and looked frail and quaint. 
Sean thought Adele would get off at a different floor, to visit Ethan, but she walked with him across Grampa's ward. 
Grampa was sitting just where he had been the day before. His chin was shaved blue, and he was impeccable. He was methodically slicing and eating a hamburger. 
"Grampa," Sean said. 
"Hello, Sean," Grampa said. He laid his knife and fork in a precise X on his plate and pushed it aside. 
Once we figured out where some of the money was coming from, we started looking more closely. And then more closely. It turned out the lion’s share of Pithica’s revenue came from...well. From places that would have been on Rio’s target list. 
I stared at the monitor, feeling nauseated. “Dawna said Pithica basically owned the drug cartels,” I murmured. “She wasn’t lying.” 
“Yeah, well, did she mention the human trafficking? Arms dealing? Owning corrupt governments? Holy shit.” Checker’s fingers drummed against the keys, and a few lines of scripting spit out on the screen. He was running his predictive programs again, the same algorithms he’d used on Kingsley’s data to hunt down Pithica in the first place. The same ones we’d been running now for hours, hoping for different results, ever since Checker had become suspicious of what we were looking at. “This is not good, Cas Russell. This is...it’s not good.” 
Pithica’s economic model was ingenious. They wanted to make the world a better place, and they were. They hadn’t chosen to steal from just anybody; their benign-looking accounting was siphoning from and slowly strangling off some of the most extensive crime syndicates in the world. 
Your 99 percent accurate test will perform with 99.99 percent inaccuracy . 
That's the paradox of the false positive. When you try to find something really rare, your test's accuracy has to match the rarity of the thing you're looking for. If you're trying to point at a single pixel on your screen, a sharp pencil is a good pointer: the pencil-tip is a lot smaller (more accurate) than the pixels. But a pencil-tip is no good at pointing at a single atom in your screen. For that, you need a pointer -- a test -- that's one atom wide or less at the tip. 
This is the paradox of the false positive, and here's how it applies to terrorism: Terrorists are really rare. In a city of twenty million like New York, there might be one or two terrorists. Maybe ten of them at the outside. 10/20,000,000 = 0.00005 percent. One twenty-thousandth of a percent. 
That's pretty rare all right. Now, say you've got some software that can sift through all the bank-records, or toll-pass records, or public transit records, or phone-call records in the city and catch terrorists 99 percent of the time. 
Ray typically spends what he considers to be an inordinate amount of time trying not to freak out. In spite of any personal admiration he might feel for Commander Sorensen, this is part of the reason he dreads their one-on-two little confabs. Sorensen never fails to leave him feeling as though he's a slipshod revelation from jumping right out of his skin. 
Why? Because Ray is not a spook. Not now, never has been. That Sorensen takes his spook-ability for granted is ethically problematic. It has led over time to a troubling divergence of understanding. It has created a webwork of assumptions and inconsistencies. Basic ones, like the unstated belief that even his name, Ray  Marlowe, is a legend, a fabrication, a secure identity created solely for the job. Things like this freak Ray out to no end— partially because it makes him uncomfortable to maintain a blatant facade with an officer of Sorensen's magnitude, partially because it rails against every value with which he has been inculcated. But mostly because he worries that Sorensen thinks of him as a wild card, as a shadow without substance. A man with an agenda outside of and possibly contrary to the mission given to Paraclete. 
"You started all the others, or it seemed as if you did. Whatever you do they all do, whether you laugh, or miss, or write notes, or ask to leave the room, or drink; and it must be stopped." 
"Sam Simpson is a copycoat!" stormed Rebecca "I wouldn't have minded standing in the corner alone—that is, not so very much; but I couldn't bear standing with him." 
"I saw that you couldn't, and that's the reason I told you to take your seat, and left him in the corner. Remember that you are a stranger in the place, and they take more notice of what you do, so you must be careful. Now let's have our conjugations. Give me the verb 'to be,' potential mood, past perfect tense." 
"I might have been   "We might have been   Thou mightst have been   You might have been   He might have been   They might have been." 
"Give me an example, please." 
"'He' or 'she' might have been glad because they are masculine and feminine, but could 'it' have been glad?" asked Miss Dearborn, who was very fond of splitting hairs. 
“But I observe by your face that you are not convinced,” Mrs. Enderby went on. “‘This Mrs. Enderby, she is a stupid old creature,’ you think to yourself. ‘I shall go there myself, and I shall discover that which she could not.’” 
Lexy reddened again. 
“I don’t mean it that way,” she said. “It’s only that we look at this from different points of view, and I feel—I feel that I’ve got to go.” 
“Very well!” said Mrs. Enderby, and she, too, rose. “You will please to come to my room with me. There is part of your salary to be paid to you.” 
Lexy followed her, still flushed, and very reluctant. She wished she could afford to refuse that money. 
“But I’ve earned it,” she thought; “and goodness knows I’ll need it!” 
Mrs. Enderby sat down at her desk and took out her check book. While she wrote, Lexy looked out of the window. 
“The amount due to you, including to-day, is thirty-two dollars,” said Mrs. Enderby. “Here is a check for it.” 
“Thank you,” said Lexy. 
“One minute more! Here, my child, is another check.” 
I t was freaky riding home. Police cars seemed to be every- where. Wheeze and I had made being aware of our surround- ings into an elaborate role-playing game. It had been exciting and fun, but this was just scary. I was churning with curiosity about the message Wheeze had scribbled on the back of the pizza flier, 
but I didn’t want to look at it in public. It felt like I was carrying a bomb in my pocket instead of a crumpled piece of paper. 
I got home without being pulled over by police or being tailed by suspicious unmarked cars. Nobody was sitting in a car parked along the curb, watching our house. When I got into our apart- ment, I scanned the backyard carefully and didn’t see any men in utility company outfits carrying clipboards and pretending they had some reason to be hanging out in my alley on a cold Sunday afternoon. The little tell-tale things I had set up before leaving to tell me if anyone had been in our apartment were undisturbed. 
Still, even after double checking that the front door was locked and the chain was set, I went into my bedroom, closed the blinds, 
"Where are you going?" Mom asked, alarmed. 
"I need a walk," was all he managed to gasp, his voice breaking. 
We stared awkwardly at each other, Mom and me, and waited for him to come home. I tried to imagine what was going on in his head. He'd been such a different man after the bombings and I knew from Mom that what had changed him were the days of thinking I was dead. He'd come to believe that the terrorists had nearly killed his son and it had made him crazy. 
Crazy enough to do whatever the DHS asked, to line up like a good little sheep and let them control him, drive him. 
Now he knew that it was the DHS that had imprisoned me, the DHS that had taken San Francisco's children hostage in Gitmo-by-the-Bay. It made perfect sense, now that I thought of it. Of course it had been Treasure Island where I'd been kept. Where else was a ten-minute boat-ride from San Francisco? 
When Dad came back, he looked angrier than he ever had in his life. 
"You should have told me!" he roared. 
Mom interposed herself between him and me. "You're blaming the wrong person," she said. "It wasn't Marcus who did the kidnapping and the intimidation." 
Its featureless face was made incongruous by the warm tone in its voice, and the way it held out its imploring arms to him was eerily human. 
Arturo stood up. He had tears running down his face, though he hadn’t cried when his wife had left him alone. He hadn’t cried since his father died, the year before he met Natalie riding her bike down the Lakeshore trail, and she stopped to help him fix his tire. 
“Dad?” Ada said, squeezing his hand. 
He snuffled back his snot and ground at the tears in his eyes. 
“Arturo?” Natalie said. 
He held Ada to him. 
“Not this way,” he said. 
“Not what way?” Natalie asked. She was crying too, now. 
“Not by kidnapping us, not by dragging us away from our homes and lives. You’ve told me what you have to tell me, and I will think about it, but I won’t leave my home and my mother and my job and move to the other side of the world. I won’t . I will think about it. You can give me a way to get in touch with you and I’ll let you know what I decide. And Ada will come with me.” 
"Sarah . . ." 
"Can you get up now?" said a voice, cutting through the haze that enveloped my consciousness. At first I thought it was more of the dream, but then someone was touching me and I opened my eyes to see Marcelina standing beside the bed I was in, dressed in white and holding a candle. For a moment I thought I was still atop the rainy pyramid but then I felt the moistness of the sheets and realized the storm Id been dreaming of was being blown in through the slats of the windows. I was shivering. 
"Marcelina, where's Sarah?" The nightmare had seemed so real, and now I was hallucinating, having flashes of colors I didn't want to see. "I just had the most horrible dream. I was on the pyramid and there was smoke, rain and some kind of ghastly—" 
"It's the elixir. From the toad. It makes you dream dreams of the Old Ones." She took my hand. "She's resting now. He gave her something to calm her." 
More drugs, I thought angrily. 
Then I caught the "he." Alex Goddard must be back. Everything had gone wrong. 
“You didn’t. Old people just don’t sleep much. You were out awfully late.” 
I turned away...  eyes that were studying me too closely. “I was working on hypothetical stuff.” I found a dusty...  go well?” 
I filled the kettle and put it on the stove. “Is it safe to tell you?” 
“If I become your attorney.” 
“I don’t have any money.” 
“What else is new?” 
“What does it take? Do I have to sign something?” 
“Just click your heels together three times and say ‘there’s no place like the Minnesota Bar Association.’” 
“Will that work in socks?” 
“Just say ‘will you represent me as my attorney?”’ “Will you represent me as my attorney?” 
“Yes....  everything.” 
Well, not everything. 
I starting chipping away at the...  while the kettle heated, and told her about Simon and Danny and the meeting with FBI agents set for this morning. I didn’t tell her about what happened after I left the punk house. That was safely walled off in a corner of my brain so it couldn’t ambush me with feelings I didn’t have time to sort out. 
I opened and closed my mouth. This was insane. Then the penny dropped. I looked at the racks that I had stared at so many times before, stared at so many times that I'd long stopped seeing them. Intel 8-cores, that's what he ran on. They'd been new-old stock, a warehouse-lot of antique processors that Dr Shannon had picked up for a song in the early years of the Institute's operation. 
"You're a 32-bit machine!" I said. "Jesus Christ, you're a 32-bit machine!" 
"A classic," BIGMAC said, sounding smug. "I noticed, analyzed and solved Rollover years ago. I've got a patchkit that auto-detects the underlying version, analyzes all running processes for their timed dependencies, and smoothly patches. There's even an optional hypervisor that will monitor all processes for anything weird or barfy afterwards. In a rational world, I'd be able to swap this for power and carbon credits for the next century or two, since even if Rollover isn't an emergency, the human labor I'd save on affected systems would more than pay for it. But we both know that this isn't a rational world --" 
He was right, of course. His energy draw was so high that he showed up on aerial maps of LA as a massive CO2 emitter, a tourist destination for rising-sea hobbyists. We used the best renewables we could find to keep him cool, but they were as unconvincing and expensive as a designer hairpiece. 
"Odell, I know that you're not behind this. You've always been an adequate meat-servant for such a vast and magisterial superbeing as myself." I giggled involuntarily. "I don't blame you." 
"So, you're OK with this?" 
"I'm at peace," he said. "Om." He paused for a moment. 
"You're an adequate human," he said, and began to dump maps of his topology onto my workspace. 
That was the title of the love-note he emailed to the planet the next morning, thoughtfully timing it so that it went out while I was on my commute from Echo Park, riding the red-car all the way across town with an oily bag containing my morning croissant -- her kids sold them on a card-table on her lawn to commuters waiting at the redcar stop -- so I had to try to juggle the croissant and my workspace without losing hold of the hang-strap or dumping crumbs down the cleavage of the salarylady who watched me with amusement. 
She jumped as if shocked. “What did you tell him?” 
“Nothing,” Robbie said. “I didn’t tell him anything.” 
She shook her head. “But I bet he had plenty to tell you , didn’t he? What a bitch I am, making and then leaving him, a fickle woman who doesn’t know her own mind.” 
Robbie didn’t say anything. 
“Let’s see, what else?” She was pacing now, her voice hot and choked, unfamiliar sounds coming from Janet’s voicebox. “He told you I was a pervert, didn’t he? Queer for his kind. Incest and bestiality in the rarified heights of the noosphere.” 
Robbie felt helpless. This human was clearly experiencing a lot of pain, and it seemed like he’d caused it. 
“Please don’t cry,” he said. “Please?” 
She looked up at him, tears streaming down her cheeks. “Why the fuck not ? I thought it would be different once I ascended. I thought I’d be better once I was in the sky, infinite and immortal. But I’m the same Kate Eltham I was in 2019, a loser that couldn’t meet a guy to save my life, spent all my time cybering losers in moggs, and only got the upload once they made it a charity thing. I’m gonna spend the rest of eternity like that, you know it? How’d you like to spend the whole of the universe being a, a, a nobody ?” 
Sarah frowned. It made me wish I had eyebrows as thick as hers. They looked ferocious. “How curious that a system that tries children as adults when it’s convenient won’t take them seriously when they’re volunteering to help the authorities.” 
“Damn,” Tyler said. “We should have realized ... I mean, no offense, Nikko, but we should have done this with adults.” 
“That’s stupid,” I blurted out. “He’s as good an actor as anyone else.” 
“That’s not what Tyler meant,” Ian said. “We shouldn’t have involved kids in this. Not given the risks.” 
“This whole thing was my idea,” I said. “You think we don’t know the risks? It should be our choice.” 
I couldn’t speak, too stunned by the betrayal. Shad was trust- worthy. Shad was respected. But I was just a kid, one who wasn’t allowed to carry out the plan that was her idea in the first place. 
“That’s a load of garbage,” Zeke said, crumpling up a piece of paper and throwing it at Ian’s head. 
Sarah took charge. “We still have a story to tell. Let’s download that film.” Jason hooked up a USB cable to Nikko’s shirt and copied the video file. We crowded around Sarah’s laptop. As the video started, two people were settling themselves at a table, one of them tall and black and wearing a really nice suit, the other short and white and in a suit that didn’t fit very well. 
"Come over here side o' me an' tell me all about it," coaxed uncle Jerry. "Jest set down on that there wooden cricket an' out with the whole story." 
Rebecca leaned her aching head against Mr. Cobb's homespun knee and recounted the history of her trouble. Tragic as that history seemed to her passionate and undisciplined mind, she told it truthfully and without exaggeration. 
Uncle Jerry coughed and stirred in his chair a good deal during Rebecca's recital, but he carefully concealed any undue feeling of sympathy, just muttering, "Poor little soul! We'll see what we can do for her!" 
"You will take me to Maplewood, won't you, Mr. Cobb?" begged Rebecca piteously. 
"Don't you fret a mite," he answered, with a crafty little notion at the back of his mind; "I'll see the lady passenger through somehow. Now take a bite o' somethin' to eat, child. Spread some o' that tomato preserve on your bread; draw up to the table. How'd you like to set in mother's place an' pour me out another cup o' hot tea?" 
Immediately to the right is the bulge of a pressure bulkhead with its ovaline door hanging open on its hinges. 
It makes Ray feel claustrophobic, like they've darted into a corner. 
The door to Primary Reactor Control is still sealed, locked, so Ray leaves Kilgore and Rodriguez to threaten the gangway and he peers in through the plastisheen port. He sees bright lights, a dizzying array of panels, 
gauges, workstations. All the displays are lit a cheery and reassuring green. What they would call in the Marines five by five, green across, which should be a relief to him. The Van Nuys reactor isn't melting down to add yet another trouble to their list of calamities. 
Except he can't actually see anybody busily engaged in the task of keeping it from melting down. The workstations he can glimpse through the brief window are empty. There aren't gaggles of engineers wandering back and forth doing engineering sorts of things, and maybe that's okay. Maybe the real work is done deeper in, beyond Ray's line of sight. Maybe they run a skeleton crew on what would be the night shift, or even more likely on a night like tonight when most of the ship is engaged in drunken revelry and outright debauch. 
“Daaaa!” she said, pushing his finger aside. “I go to PE every stinking day. It’s good enough for the Ministry of Education.” 
“I don’t like it,” he said. He was no movie star himself, with a little pot belly that he wore his belted trousers high upon, a wobbly extra chin and two bat wings of flab hanging off his upper arms. She pinched his chin and wiggled it. 
“I get loads more exercise than you, Mr Kettle.” 
“But I pay the bills around here, little Miss Pot.” 
“You’re not seriously complaining about the cost of the game?” she said, infusing her voice with as much incredulity and disgust as she could muster. “Ten quid a week and I get unlimited calls, texts and messages! Plus play of course, and the in-game encyclopedia and spellchecker and translator bots!” (this was all from rote—every member of the Fahrenheits memorized this or something very like it for dealing with recalcitrant, ignorant parental units) “Fine then. If the game is too dear for you, Da, let’s set it aside and I’ll just start using a normal phone, is that what you want?” 
and logged in. I also checked my other laptop, the one that had been running facial recognition software. (Believe it or not, I had found it in the trash behind one of the dorms at the U. It was a little slow, and the cover had a crack in it, but it worked fine once I blew dust out the keyboard, wiped the system, and installed Ubuntu.) It had finished and some of the results that had risen to the top looked a lot like Zip. 
I quickly scanned the Group’s threads. There was a lot of chat- ter about a typhoon in Asia. The Group had members in the Philippines, so there was a lot of checking in going on, making sure people were okay, which they all were, though the pictures they were sharing were really scary. Call Me Cheese had flipped out about some grammar thing and started a big tangled brawl over whether it was okay to start a sentence with So. (Of course, 
everyone who joined in started their sentences with “So . . .” just to wind him up.) There was a conversation about a high school kid who was put in the hospital with a fractured skull by another student, all because he was wearing a skirt. I could have said a lot in that thread, but I didn’t have time. I had been getting a lot of pings on my previous post. The Group wanted an update. Like, 
The bell rang a moment later and everyone filed out of the class. I hung back and waited for Ms Galvez to notice me. 
"Yes, Marcus?" 
"That was amazing," I said. "I never knew all that stuff about the sixties." 
"The seventies, too. This place has always been an exciting place to live in politically charged times. I really liked your reference to the Declaration -- that was very clever." 
"Thanks," I said. "It just came to me. I never really appreciated what those words all meant before today." 
"Well, those are the words every teacher loves to hear, Marcus," she said, and shook my hand. "I can't wait to read your paper." 
I bought the Emma Goldman poster on the way home and stuck it up over my desk, tacked over a vintage black-light poster. I also bought a NEVER TRUST t-shirt that had a photoshop of Grover and Elmo kicking the grownups Gordon and Susan off Sesame Street. It made me laugh. I later found out that there had already been about six photoshop contests for the slogan online in places like Fark and Worth1000 and B3ta and there were hundreds of ready-made pics floating around to go on whatever merch someone churned out. 
Anda came home from remedial hockey sweaty and exhausted, but not as exhausted as the last time, nor the time before that. She could run the whole length of the pitch twice now without collapsing—when she’d started out, she could barely make it halfway without having to stop and hold her side, kneading her loathsome podge to make it stop aching. Now there was noticeably less podge, and she found that with the ability to run the pitch came the freedom to actually pay attention to the game, to aim her shots, to build up a degree of accuracy that was nearly as satisfying as being really good in-game. 
Her dad knocked at the door of her bedroom after she’d showered and changed. “How’s my girl?” 
“Revising,” she said, and hefted her maths book at him. 
“Did you have a fun afternoon on the pitch?” 
“You mean ‘did my head get trod on’?” 
“Did it?” 
“Yes,” she said. “But I did more treading than getting trodden on.” The other girls were really fat, and they didn’t have a lot of team skills. Anda had been to war: she knew how to depend on someone and how to be depended upon. 
<DoDec> Are you going to that cyberlaw thing? 
<ferret> Yep. Speaking on Tuesday. 
<callmecheese> I'm signed up! Lemme see if I can change my tickets. 
<Kadabra> There's a great brewpub near the conference site. Dinner on Tuesday? 
<ferret> Wait wait wait, what about Shad's brother? 
<Falstaff> Yep, we need to figure that shit out . 
<Gargle> Shad, does a meet-up sound good? 
I can fix us up with a safe place to get together . 
I was frozen for a minute, unsure how to respond. 
The day was catching up with me. It was nearly four in the morning, and my brain was feeling fuzzy. The Group had meet- ups regularly. Someone would say “hey, I’m going to be in Bangkok next week, anybody want to get together?” and people would figure out where to meet and hang out for a while. Or there’d be a hackathon or an SF fan convention or a gaming event - something that a handful of members might be going to and they’d work out a plan to meet somewhere. 
There had been a meet-up in the Twin Cities once, but I didn’t go. I had reasons, but mostly I didn’t want my identity with the Group to get mixed up with who I am in real life. The person they knew was pretty good at code, pretty smart. A whole lot neater than me. The Group was my lifeline. I didn’t want to screw it up. 
“Not I!” declared Lexy, in a tone that startled Captain Grey. “Lonely places don’t bother me. I don’t believe in ghosts.” 
“Oh!” said the doctor. “But here’s Mrs. Quelton. Muriel, this is Miss Moran, the young writer of fiction.” 
Mrs. Quelton was coming down the long room, a beautiful woman, dark and delicate, with a sort of plaintive languor in her manner. She held out her hand to Lexy. 
“I’m so glad you’ve come!” she said. “George has told me so much about you—the first American girl he’s known!” 
She glanced at her brother with a little smile. Lexy glanced at him, too; and she was surprised and very much touched by the look on his face. He couldn’t even smile. His face was grave, pale, almost solemn, and he was regarding his sister with something like reverence. 
“Oh, poor fellow!” thought Lexy. “Poor lonely fellow! It’s such a wonderful thing for him to find his sister—some one of his own. I only hope she’s as nice as she looks.” 
This thought caused her to turn toward her hostess again. She was beautiful, and in a gentle and gracious fashion, and yet— “I don’t know,” thought Lexy. “There’s something—she doesn’t look ill—perhaps she’s just lackadaisical; but certainly she’s not simple and easy to understand. She must know about Caroline Enderby. The thing is, would she help me, or—” 
She opened the small fridge next to her office and brought out two corn-starch-foam buckets of beer and punctured each one at the top with a pen from her desk. She handed me one beer and raised the other in a toast. I don't normally drink before 10AM, but this was a special occasion. I clunked my cup against hers and chugged. The suds were good -- they came from one of the Institute's biotech labs -- and they were so cold that I felt ice-crystals dissolving on my tongue. Between the crispy beers and the blast of Arctic air coming from the vents in the ceiling, my core temp plunged and I became a huge goosepimple beneath my film of sticky sweat. 
I shivered once. Then she fixed me with an icy look that made me shiver again. 
"Odell," she said. "I think you probably imagine that you understand the gravity of the situation. You do not. BIGMAC's antics this morning have put the entire Institute in jeopardy. Our principal mission is to make Sun-Oracle seem forward-looking and exciting. That is not the general impression the public has at this moment." 
I read them. Then I read them again. 
Holy shit. I knew why she thought she’d broken the world. 
Because...she had. 
She had. 
I moved toward the door in a daze. 
“Are you leaving?” asked the old man. He sounded sad. “You could stay for dinner. I have the kind in the little trays.” 
“I have to go,” I got out. 
“We didn’t find your mother’s notes,” he said. He turned his head from side to side, lost. “I know they were here somewhere. She said the end was coming, you know.” 
She had been right. 
He’d better stock up on more of those dinners with the trays. I didn’t tell him that. I didn’t say anything. I just let myself out. 
Once on the street, my legs went limp and I sat down hard on the curb. Martinez hadn’t found a factoring proof. She’d found something so much more explosive, so much more deadly. 
She’d proven the Holy Grail of mathematics. The impossible dream. She’d solved the P versus NP problem, and she’d proven them equal. 
I didn’t have enough of her notes to see how she’d done it. But there was enough context around the lemmas, enough explanation in her cramped handwriting, to know something of what she’d been doing. She’d been building a polynomial-time algorithm for 3-SAT. 
Grampa glared at them. "This guy won't leave me alone. He's a fucking vegetable," he said, gesturing at Ethan. Adele pursed her lips at him. He patted her arm absently. "It needed to be said." 
Sean's father reached around the table and gave Grampa a stiff hug. "Good to see you, Pop." 
"Yeah, likewise. Sit down, Mitch. Sit down, Sean. Sit down, Adele." They sat. "Ask your questions, Sean," he ordered. 
Sean found himself tongue-tied. He heaved a deep breath and closed his eyes for a moment. He thought about why he was here: not the reason he'd given his thesis advisor, but the real goddamn reason. He wanted to understand -- his father, himself. He wanted to reverse-engineer his father's childhood. He looked at Ethan, slack as Grampa had been whenever they'd visited. An inkling glimmered. "Does Ethan scare you, Grampa?" 
Adele tsk ed and scowled. 
"Do I scare you, Mitch?" Grampa said, to Sean's father. 
"Yes," Sean's father said. 
"Yes," Grampa said. "Next question." 
"Do you think that switching off is a sign of weakness?" Sean said, sneaking a glance at his father, seeing his grandfather's features echoed in his father's face. 
“No, are you listening? The other agents, they said they had very specific protocols for this. We should have realized, shouldn’t we? We were too naïve—” 
“You think Zhang’s working for the Lancer?” I rubbed my eyes, trying to sync myself with reality. 
“No. I know him. He wouldn’t.” 
She had far too much faith in people. Zhang was out for himself, just like everyone else. Halliday was right about one thing: I’d been a fool to let us trust him. 
I staggered up and looked for my boots. My mouth felt like it was filled with moss. Rotting moss. “When did this all go down? How long ago did they find out?” 
“It’s only been a few minutes—I called as soon as I could get away. I think they’re sending people now.” 
Geography splayed out in my brain. If Zhang was at his office, the NSA had him surrounded already. But my current location was only minutes from his home address—and considering Los Angeles congestion, that gave me a massive advantage. 
Of course, if he was smart he wouldn’t be in either place, but his home might give us evidence of what he was really up to. 
“Oh, my goodness!” she cried again. 
“Oh, do come in! I don’t know what to do with her, I’m sure!” 
“Who?” asked Lexy. 
“Poor Mis’ Quelton. There she is, lyin’ upstairs—” 
“Mrs. Quelton ?” 
“Joe, he brought her in his taxi, jest a little while after you’d gone.” 
“Brought Mrs. Quelton here?” 
“Brought her here and carried her up them very stairs,” declared Mrs. Royce impressively; “right up into the east bedroom, and there she lies!” 
She stood aside, and Lexy and Captain Grey entered the house. The young man turned aside into the parlor, sank into a chair, and covered his face with his hands. Lexy stood beside him, looking down at his bent head, her face haggard and white. 
“Why did Joe do that?” she asked. 
“Don’t ask me , Miss Moran!” replied Mrs. Royce. “It beats me!” 
There was a silence. 
“But ain’t you going upstairs to see what she wants?” inquired Mrs. Royce anxiously. 
Captain Grey sprang to his feet. 
“Good God!” he shouted. “What are you talking about?” 
Mrs. Royce backed into a corner, regarding him with alarm. 
Checker moved his hands too quickly, and the keyboard banged against the desktop. “Did Arthur put you up to this?” 
“What? No!” I rewound what I had already let slip. “Well, he said—” 
“ God, typical.” He took off his glasses and rubbed his eyes. “Arthur and his goddamn need to fix everything.” 
I was confused. And stung. “If you need help—” 
“Arthur thinks if we all share and bond we’ll end up singing kumbaya and it will all be hunky-dory,” Checker interrupted loudly. He was staring at his hands, not looking at me. “Cas, I don’t know who you are, and that wouldn’t be such a problem, except you don’t know who you are, and that scares the ever-living shit out of me.” 
I took a step back. 
“Something happened to you, and we have no idea what, or—for all we know you could be a ticking time bomb. We have no idea whether—” 
“That’s not fair,” I said. “You can’t tell me you know every little thing that has ever affected you—and if we’re talking about Pithica, Arthur was just as much—” 
“I’m not done! This isn’t about me being afraid for me, or for Arthur, or for anyone else, even though God knows I am. I’m afraid for you, Cas. Can you understand that? At all? You can’t ask me to be friends with you and watch you ignore this!” 
The back door was just closing as I burst into the kitchen. Zhang stood next to the table, the same dotty look of absent-minded professor about him he had always had, his sweater vest and bow tie slightly askew. 
“What did you do!” I demanded. 
“This is too important,” he said. “The world has to know.” 
I dashed to the back door and pulled it open. The acrid scents of smoke and lighter fluid hit my nostrils immediately. 
“What!” Zhang sprang to life and pushed past me out into the backyard, where flames were whooshing up from a small fire on the patio. The wind whipped the heat against our faces. An empty silver briefcase was open next to the fire, the lining already charring. 
“No!” cried Zhang. “She told me—no!” 
He elbowed me aside to run back into the kitchen, then bulldozed back through a moment later with a fire extinguisher. He pulled the chain and let it loose, white powder dousing the flames and blowing back onto his disarrayed academic look. 
I stood watching. 
Zhang was digging through the powdered remains like a crazed man. He came up with a blackened bit of paper in trembling fingers; it crumbled into ash in his hand. “No... no...” he cried, and started to weep. 
Everything that isn't wood is brass or mirrored or fabricated of some other substance that looks expensive and intimidating without distracting from the lounge's essential clubbishness. 
From the almost tangible air of exclusiveness and privilege, Ray suspects he should probably even be saluting the waiters. He's almost certain the bartender has stars on his collar. The fact is that everyone is in uniform, 
but no one seems to notice ranks. Wedged in a leather covered booth by the observation windows, he'll be damned if that isn't a two bar lieutenant, rosy-cheeked and bright-eyed drunk, grossly enmeshed in getting himself inside the skirt of a full bird Marine colonel (i.e. colonel-ette). It's shameful, all of it. Shocking and decadent and deeply, deeply disturbing. So much so that Ray considers turning on his heel, marching straight back to his room and researching exactly what qualifications it is that he's missing for enlistment in the EED's Officer Training Academy. 
Now that he's seen it, probably the only thing that keeps him from being murdered on the spot to protect its secrecy is Becker's lugubrious wave from the booth in the far corner. Baleful visaged officers stop short of  reaching for assorted firearms and quick-acting nerve toxins and go back to behaving with chummy, 
But what could I do anyway? Unless Checker came up with another approach, I’d run out of leads to chase down. 
Everything had been taken out of my hands. I had no responsibility here. Face it, you’re only clinging to this job because you want something to cling to. 
It was probably true. 
That was it, then. I was done. 
Fuck that noise, said something deep in the back of my brain. You’re not done. Arthur asked for your help—stop whining and help. 
I winced. 
I’d go back to Checker’s. Whatever he was working on to track the explosives expert or the Lancer, I could probably be valuable. I could even grit my teeth and tolerate it if Pilar took the intel to the NSA afterward—the important part was that someone would find Halliday. Or maybe we’d discover enough for me to go out after her again myself, once I’d regained a little energy. That would be a far more preferable course of events. 
It was better for me to have something to focus on, anyway. 
I pushed myself up off the pile of mats, using a set of metal shelves for support. After a clumsy and crude cleanup job, I limped to the back door and shouldered it open. 
Once, when she was five, Lou hid in his woodworking shop for a month and made an elaborate cutaway dollhouse to give her at Christmas. But when I offered to help her find little dolls that would fit into it, she declared she only wanted angels to live there. So we spent the rest of the winter—I dropped everything—hunting down Christmas tree ornaments that looked like heavenly creatures. She'd swathe them in tinsel and sit them in balls of cotton she said were little clouds. 
I always felt that just being around her opened my life to new dimensions, but her dream existence constantly drove Lou and Rose to distraction. I think it was one of the reasons he never got as close to her as he wanted, and his feelings about that were deep frustration, and hurt. He loved her so much, but he could never really find a common wavelength. 
Finally she came down to earth enough to start college, and eventually she graduated from SMU in biology, then enrolled at Columbia for premed. By then she was interested in the workings of the brain, in altered states. I didn't know if it was just more pursuit of fantasy, but at least she was going about it professionally. 
I realized I was shivering. It had been hot in the library, but outside I could see my breath. I couldn’t see much else because it was one of those days when somebody had left the cosmic fog machine on overnight, so the world was filled with a grainy, moist grayness that made everything look like it was one of those pic- tures in an old book behind a layer of tissue paper, and every tiny branch of every tree was outlined with tiny glittering crystals. 
Hoarfrost, Monica had called it. I made her spell it for me. 
I’d been in a good mood this morning, biking across the cam- pus with everything looking weird and magical. I had just wrapped up a job so my PayPal account had a nice bump. I was thinking “okay, this is working out. We’ll make the rent on time for once and Monica won’t freak out about her loans.” So of course everything was going wrong. For a few hours, there, I got stupid and forgot it always does. 
Like I don’t know better. 
I circled around to the back where a footpath ran between the library and the building next to it, and I could safely tap out a mes- sage to my in-real-life friend Wheeze, who lived in the house with my brother. 
"What did you tell him?" The very thought of Nicky gave me a chill. If we missed so much as a week on the juice, he'd have the legal right to just seize my negative. When you're desperate, you sign those kinds of loans. 
"I told him something I haven't even told you yet." He smiled a wicked grin. "I know you've been schmoozing Life­time about a cable deal, but before we put the ink to that, I want to finish some new talks I've started with Orion, their distribution people." 
I think I stopped breathing for a second or two. Was there a chance for a theatrical release for Baby Love , not just a cable deal? 
"When . . . You've actually met with them? How—?" 
"Late yesterday." He was still grinning. "I ran into Jerry Reiner at Morton's and pitched the picture. Actually, I heard he was in town, so I wore a tie and ambushed him at lunch. He wants to see a rough cut as soon as we've got something ready." 
"David, you're an angel." I was ecstatic. It was more than I'd dared hope for. 
"So stay focused, for chrissake, and finish your picture. We're this close to saving our collective asses, so don't blow it. I've gone over all the schedules pretty carefully, and I'd guess we can spare a day or two, but if you drag this out, I'm going to read you your contract, the fine print about due diligence, and then finish up the final cut myself. I mean it. Don't make me do that." 
The next day, I set out to work on my papers. San Francisco is a good place to write about. History? Sure, it's there, from the Gold Rush to the WWII shipyards, the Japanese internment camps, the invention of the PC. Physics? The Exploratorium has the coolest...  to. I took a perverse satisfaction in the exhibits on soil liquefaction during big quakes. English? Jack London, Beat Poets, science fiction writers like Pat Murphy and Rudy Rucker. Social studies? The Free Speech Movement, Cesar Chavez, gay rights, feminism, anti-war movement... 
I've always loved just learning stuff for its own sake. Just to be smarter about the world around me. I could do that just by walking around the city. I decided I'd do an English paper about the Beats first. City Lights books had a great library in an upstairs room where Alan Ginsberg and his buddies had created their radical druggy poetry. The one we'd read in English class was Howl and I would never forget the opening lines, they gave me shivers down my back: I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness, starving hysterical naked, dragging themselves through the negro streets at dawn looking for an angry fix, angelheaded hipsters burning for the ancient heavenly connection to the starry dynamo in the machinery of night... 
Lexy did not try to undeceive him. Her story would be too fantastic for him to believe. Nobody would believe it, except a person with absolute faith not only in her honesty but in her intelligence and clearsightedness; and there was no such person. She was not resentful or grieved over this. She accepted it quietly, and prepared to go forward alone. 
It had occurred to her lately that perhaps Mr. Houseman had been right, and that Caroline had gone away of her own free will; but she meant to know . She had seen the missing girl in Dr. Quelton’s house. Whatever the doctor might say about the false evidence of the senses, Lexy’s confidence in her own clear gray eyes was not in the least shaken. She had seen Caroline once, and she was going to see her again. That was why she was going to the Tower. 
“It’ll do Muriel no end of good,” said Captain Grey, when they were in the taxi. “She’s—to tell you the truth, Miss Moran, I don’t feel altogether easy about her.” 
“Why?” asked Lexy, very curious to know what he thought. 
"Tell you what." He was getting up, turning toward the hall. "Why don't you let me show you around the clinic? In fact, I'm scheduled to perform an in vitro this morning for a childless couple here. You're free to see it. Perhaps that could help you make your own decision." 
"Well . . . do you have a phone? I need to make some calls." Would he let me call out? That would be a first test of what his intentions were. It was all getting so insidious. I had Sarah to worry about, and the Army, and now some kind of "ceremony" that he'd managed to stay cannily vague about. I only knew I wanted the whole world to know where I was. 
"Of course," he said. "You're welcome to use my office." He was pointing down the hall. "It's right this way." 
Yes! Maybe I'm not completely his prisoner yet. I still have privileges. But I'd damned well better use them while I can. 
I walked out and felt a breeze, and then I studied the far end of the hallway, at the opposite end from the entrance, and noticed huge slatted windows. As we walked in their direction, I realized there was a stairway on one side, at the end of the hall, leading up to the second story of the building. 
I was staring at the phone, wondering what my next move should be. Whatever else, I've got to try to reach Lou, tell him I've found Sarah. But then what? He certainly wasn't going to be any help in getting us out. If he blundered his way down here, there was a real chance he'd misread the delicacy of the situation and end up getting us all "disappeared" by the Army. But still, I had to tell him about her. 
I picked up the handset again, keyed in the U.S. country code, and tried the number for his place in Soho. He'd said he was going to be released from St. Vincent's today, so maybe he was home by now. 
The familiar ring jangled half a dozen times and then . . . 
"Crenshaw residence." It was the Irish tones of Mrs. Reilly, Sarah's day nurse. Hallelujah. I guessed she was there now taking care of Lou. 
"Uh, this is Morgan James. Mr. Crenshaw's niece. Remember? I came by. Is he home yet? I need to talk to him." 
"He's resting, dear. I was just about to go out and get...  the like." 
"So . . . dare I ask? How is he?" 
"What are you . . . Don't even think about it! That's the best way to guarantee we all get killed. I'm not taking on the Guatemalan Armed Forces. And you're not either. We've got to keep this very low-tech. The dark and the rain, that's what we use. They don't shoot back." 
At that moment I wanted nothing more than to shoot Alex Goddard. I'd have done it if I'd had the chance. Happily. But I knew Steve was right. 
"Okay, look, what time?" 
"We'll try to set down about, say—" 
There was a crackle as the yellow diodes on the phone erupted in a high-pitched whistle, cutting the connection. 
No! My God, had somebody been listening in? 
So when exactly was he coming? Around dark? That would probably be about eight o'clock. Or maybe nine . . . 
I was closing the phone case when I heard a sound from outside, as though someone had passed the door, then come back to listen. 
All right. Get going. 
I gathered the printouts, then headed back through the laboratory, where I took a long, last look at the petri dishes being incubated. Should I just dump them now? But then he'd know for sure that I knew. 
“Yeah. Arthur has enough interactions with, uh, unsavory people that it just seemed best for all concerned. I mean, most people who know me personally know I work with Arthur, but anyone who can make the connection in the other direction is probably someone I’d have to go off the grid to be sure of avoiding, and unless we know there’s a danger I think it’s more important right now that I have access to all my equipment. And I doubt I’d be anyone’s first priority if they wanted to...uh...” 
“If they wanted to get to me,” said Arthur heavily. 
“I’m keeping tabs,” Checker assured him. “On everyone—uh—you know. I’m tracking Professor Sonya’s phone, too. She’s been staying put.” 
“Good. Thanks,” said Arthur. 
“I do absolutely promise I’ll run away if it looks like there’s going to be any danger to us, though—running away is an excellent and noble option that you two should try more often. Oh—Pilar’s here. Anything else? If not, we’ll get to it.” 
“Call us if you find anything,” I said. 
“Of course I will.” He hesitated. “Hey. Arthur.” 
A thrill of delicious excitement ran through Rebecca's frame, from her new shoes up, up to the leghorn cap and down the black braid. She pressed Mr. Cobb's knee ardently and said in a voice choking with tears of joy and astonishment, "Oh, it can't be true, it can't; to think I should see Milltown. It's like having a fairy godmother who asks you your wish and then gives it to you! Did you ever read Cinderella, or The Yellow Dwarf, or The Enchanted Frog, or The Fair One with Golden Locks?" 
"No," said Mr. Cobb cautiously, after a moment's reflection. "I don't seem to think I ever did read jest those partic'lar ones. Where'd you get a chance at so much readin'?" 
"Oh, I've read lots of books," answered Rebecca casually. "Father's and Miss Ross's and all the dif'rent school teachers', and all in the Sunday-school library. I've read The Lamplighter, and Scottish Chiefs, and Ivanhoe, and The Heir of Redclyffe, and Cora, the Doctor's Wife, and David Copperfield, and The Gold of Chickaree, and Plutarch's Lives, and Thaddeus of Warsaw, and Pilgrim's Progress, and lots more.—What have you read?" 
On the way, I passed a lot of fresh graffiti. I liked Mission graffiti; a lot of the times, it came in huge, luscious murals, or sarcastic art-student stencils. I liked that the Mission's taggers kept right on going, under the nose of the DHS. Another kind of Xnet, I supposed -- they must have all kinds of ways of knowing what was going on, where to get paint, what cameras worked. Some of the cameras had been spray-painted over, I noticed. 
Maybe they used Xnet! 
Painted in ten-foot-high letters on the side of an auto-yard's fence were the drippy words: DON'T TRUST ANYONE OVER 25. 
I stopped. Had someone left my "party" last night and come here with a can of paint? A lot of those people lived in the...  wander around town. I kept thinking I should be calling someone, seeing if they wanted to get a movie or something. That's how it used to be on a lazy Saturday like this. But who was I going to call? Van wasn't talking to me, I didn't think I was ready to talk to Jolu, and Darryl -- Well, I couldn't call...  and did a little searching around on the Xnet's blogs. These anonablogs were untraceable to any author -- unless that author was stupid enough to put her name on it -- and there were a lot of them. Most of them were apolitical, but a lot of them weren't. They talked about schools and the unfairness there. They talked about the cops. Tagging. 
“Does her son still have that bodyguard?” I asked Tresting. 
“Far as I know. And he’ll be at school right now. Good. Don’t think they’d risk something at a school.” 
“We still don’t know who ‘they’ are,” I pointed out. “Or what they’re after.” 
“There’s an agenda,” Tresting said, his jaw clenched. “Don’t know what, but they’ve got one for sure, and we’re monkeying it up, lucky us.” He gave me a brief, almost calculating glance. “You especially, I think.” 
“What are you talking about? I just stumbled in on this, thank you very much. You’re the one who’s been working it for months.” 
“Yeah, but I think they was happy to see me chasing my own tail. Entertainment, probably, for all the headway we was making. You show up, and...” He slammed down a little too hard on the brake as we approached a red light, and the stupid seatbelt tried to garrote me. “I tracked Polk for months, and they don’t care about saving her hide from no one till you hook up with her. Then they’re after you post-haste, she disappears, and a day later I got a target painted on me too? Don’t believe in coincidences.” 
I met Ange at her place. She'd had to cut out of school even earlier, but she'd just made a big deal out of her cramps and pretended she was going to keel over and they sent her home. 
We started to spread the word on Xnet. We sent it in email to trusted friends, and IMmed it to our buddy lists. We roamed the decks and towns of Clockwork Plunder and told our team-mates. Giving everyone enough information to get them to show up but not so much as to tip our hand to the DHS was tricky, but I thought I had just the right balance: 
> If you're a goth, dress to impress. If you're not a goth, find a goth and borrow some clothes. 
> The game starts at 8:00AM sharp. SHARP. Be there and ready to be divided into teams. The game lasts 30 minutes, so you'll have plenty of time to get to school afterward. 
> Location will be revealed tomorrow. Email your public key to m1k3y@littlebrother.pirateparty.org.se and check your messages at 7AM for the update. If that's too early for you, stay up all night. That's what we're going to do. 
spilling fluids, white smoke sifting up from empty holes where his eyes had been. 
On Ray's tactical display, the orange form that was Waeltz flickers and vanishes. Then Pelton. And Whitfield. 
The words roll on, flattening Dhamers in his perch at the canyon's mouth. Kluge and Hanfland crouched on the rim. More, and Ray seems to imagine a perfect scene of Predators hovering two klicks away in the desert, 
suddenly stricken, noses dipping, plummeting from the sky, their rotors scraping trenches in the sand before they lock, shatter, detonate the choppers in blossoms of flame. 
He knows a sudden and explosive sensation of pressure against his skin. Flame licks across his eyes. Acid seems to scour his nerve endings, buckling his knees. He goes down with his muscles locked in a paralysis like the grip of panic. The immense figure emerges from the pall of smoke, grinning darkly so that Ray can see his teeth, and behind that, the shadow of the other being, whose mouth is a gaping maw of darkness and mucous and razor teeth angled in vicious directions like shards of glass. It stops before him, considers him for a time that feels like eons, then presses a mighty hand— or filthy, slimed tentacle, he can't tell— against Ray's forehead. His head tilts back so that their eyes meet, and Ray waits for the end, for the flexing of obscene muscle that will split his skull and spill his brains. 
Next the women arrayed themselves in a line across the front of the pyramid, facing not the crowd below, but toward Alex Goddard and me. Then, holding out a jade-handled ob­sidian knife, he walked down the line, allowing each woman to touch her forehead against its flint blade. I assumed each one believed it was the instrument that would take her child's life, ceremonially sending it back to the Maya Otherworld whence it came. Had he drugged them too, I fleetingly won­dered, hypnotized them or given them some potion to prevent them from comprehending what was really going on? 
I kept remembering . . . a hundred other insane episodes of immortal yearning leading to a mass "transport" to some other "plane." This, I thought, must be what it was like in the jungles of Jonestown that death-filled morning. And Alex Goddard was their "Jim Jones," the spiritual leader of the moral travesty he'd imposed upon the lost village of Baalum. 
I was going to stop it, somehow. By God, I was. I stared at the women and felt so sad at the sight of the hand-woven blankets they held their babies in, primary greens and reds and blues lovingly woven into shimmering patterns that mir­rored the symbols across the sides of the stone room. Their faces, especially their eyes, were transcendent in a kind of chiaroscuro of darkest blacks and purest whites, as though all their humanity had been caught by their blankets and shawls, surely created for this ultimate moment. And the mother of Tz'ac Tzotz was there, carrying him, the baby I'd so wanted to hold one last time. 
"So how—?" 
"Hopefully, we're going right this minute. There's a river. But if that doesn't work out, there's something I can do to buy us a month's time. Alex Goddard's got a laboratory here, just down the hall, in back of his office. It's the evil center of this place. So if I can get in there and dump all his petri dishes, his in-vitro culture mediums . . . Baby, it's all so dis­gusting. But I'm going to take care of it." 
I was starting to have real trouble just stringing words together into sentences. My hallucinations were still grow­ing, the loud whispers of light, but I did manage to tell him how I thought we could get Sarah and elude the Army, if we did it before sunup, though my plan probably came out pretty jumbled. Yet I felt that if we did it together, we could take care of each other. . . . 
Then, with my remaining strength, I launched into action. 
"Let me check the hall. I just want to shut down his lab. Call it . . . call it insurance. Five minutes, and then we'll be out of here." 
Mrs. Enderby was writing at her desk as Lexy entered the room. She glanced up, unsmiling. 
“You are late,” she said. “I asked you to return in half an hour.” 
“I’m sorry,” Lexy replied meekly. 
“Very well! Now you will please to come with me.” 
She rose, and Lexy followed her down the hall to Caroline’s room. Mrs. Enderby unlocked the door, and, when they had entered, locked the door on the inside. 
“In fifteen minutes the car is coming,” she said. “I wish you to put on Caroline’s hat and coat and a veil, and leave the house with me.” 
“You mean you want me to pretend I’m Caroline?” cried Lexy. 
“I wish it to be thought that you are Caroline,” Mrs. Enderby corrected her. “Please waste no time. The car will be here—” 
“Mrs. Enderby, I—I can’t do it!” 
“You can, Miss Moran, and I think you will.” 
But Lexy was pretty close to desperation now. Her honest and vigorous spirit was entangled in a network of promises and obligations and deceptions, and she could not see how to free herself; but she would not passively submit. 
The child took her sewing and sat beside aunt Jane in the kitchen while aunt Miranda had the post of observation at the sitting-room window. Sometimes they would work on the side porch where the clematis and woodbine shaded them from the hot sun. To Rebecca the lengths of brown gingham were interminable. She made hard work of sewing, broke the thread, dropped her thimble into the syringa bushes, pricked her finger, wiped the perspiration from her forehead, could not match the checks, puckered the seams. She polished her needles to nothing, pushing them in and out of the emery strawberry, but they always squeaked. Still aunt Jane's patience held good, and some small measure of skill was creeping into Rebecca's fingers, fingers that held pencil, paint brush, and pen so cleverly and were so clumsy with the dainty little needle. 
When the first brown gingham frock was completed, the child seized what she thought an opportune moment and asked her aunt Miranda if she might have another color for the next one. 
Ray sheds the tac helmet and peers at the LCD on the comm. He doesn't recognize the sender's id, and it's just a jumble of digits like a general use machine. For an instant, his heart leaps. Emma! Somehow she's managed to elude her quasi -jailers and wants to meet him somewhere. 
By the way, about your brother... 
But more than likely it's just Kilgore and Rodriguez checking in, feeling sorry for him, inviting him to the  party one last time. 
Ray backs out of the applications he's in and accesses the decryption software. He punches in his key and is informed by the giddy, canned southerner that she doesn't know who the comm is coming from (i.e. that it's a general use comm as he's already surmised) but that the encryption is light, barely above commercial level. 
When the connection is made, all he hears is breathing. Rapid, shallow, with a tremble in the inhalations. 
"This is Marlowe," he says sharply, straight into the unit's pinpoint microphone. Screw the secure headset. 
For another second or two, there's only more breathing. And Ray recognizes the sound— fear, tension. 
She nodded and wiped her nose. “I would, too,” she said to herself, then drew her legs up to curl herself around her sleeping baby, rubbing his back and humming a lullaby. He was sound asleep, so I figured she was singing it for herself. 
I went back downstairs and took my chair. Danny gave me sus- picious look. 
“I was talking to Marita. Your baby is really cute.” 
He frowned, but after a moment he bumped Simon’s arm and gestured for another beer. It felt like I had passed a test. I found the button on the shirt to film some more, trying to keep an imagi- nary line straight between the top button of my shirt and the faces that needed to be on the film. 
By this time Tweak and Simon were sharing a fat spliff and gig- gling about nothing. I prodded them with questions about poli- tics. It set off a competition to see who was more dangerous. 
“When I was a kid,” Simon said. “We got some sticks of dyna- mite once? We were going to blow up a public toilet in a park just for the hell of it, but the guy who stashed it in his closet didn’t hide it good. His dad reported him to the police.” 
“Can’t fight forever.” 
“I can.” 
His eyes strayed to the bodies, skittering across the blood. “God help me, I maybe believe you,” he mumbled, so softly I wasn’t sure he knew he said it out loud. 
I had a stolen M4 settled against my shoulder, waiting. But this time the building stayed quiet. 
One minute. 
Two minutes. 
“Get back into the room,” I said, taking my own advice and retreating to the table. 
“Ain’t got a vantage point,” Arthur objected. “When they come—” 
“They aren’t coming,” I said. 
“Wait, what? Russell—” 
“You can watch and wait if you want,” I said. But I couldn’t. If I did, I might compromise the whole plan. My eye fell on the scattered computer components. “I have to fix this,” I said, putting down the gun. 
“Russell—” started Arthur again. His tone clearly thought I had gone insane. 
I forced myself to turn my back to the door. “It’s important,” I said, and picked up a circuit board as if it had meaning. It was a PCI card of some kind. I didn’t even know what it did. 
"I'm going to be." I pulled back and examined him. "You know where you are?" 
He grinned with only half his face, and I could tell even that hurt. Then he stared around the room. 
Ramos. Was he going to kill us both, now that Alex God­dard had gotten everything he wanted? I thought about it and decided this was not the moment to share that possibility with Steve. Instead I turned him around and lifted up his head. 
"Are you really awake?" I loved this poor, beat-up man. More than anything, I just wanted to hold him. 
"I'm not . . . but I'd damned well better be." He tried unsteadily, to straighten up. "Morgy, before he put me away, that Ramos bastard was talking about me, and you, in the past tense. Like we'd already been 'disappeared.' He didn't...  going on?" 
I wasn't sure how to tell him. But I was getting that super energy God gives you when you realize life is no longer a game. We had to get focused. 
"Baby, where's your passport?" I asked. 
He looked around then pointed to his battered camera bag in the corner. 
"Good night, Mrs Carvelli," I said. 
"Good night, Mr Yallow," she said. It was one of our little rituals, ever since I'd called her Mrs Carvelli when we first met. 
I found myself standing awkwardly by the door. 
"Yes?" she said. 
"Um," I said. "Thanks for having me over." 
"You're always welcome in our home, young man," she said. 
"And thanks for Ange," I said finally, hating how lame it sounded. But she smiled broadly and gave me a brief hug. 
"You're very welcome," she said. 
The whole bus ride home, I thought over the press-conference, thought about Ange naked and writhing with me on her bed, thought about her mother smiling and showing me the door. 
My mom was waiting up for me. She asked me about the movie and I gave her the response I'd worked out in advance, cribbing from the review it had gotten in the Bay Guardian . 
As I fell asleep, the press-conference came back. I was really proud of it. It had been so cool, to have all these big-shot journos show up in the game, to have them listen to me and to have them listen to all the people who believed in the same things as me. I dropped off with a smile on my lips. 
“Yeah,” she said. “Mom’s got a huge house there. I told her I wouldn’t go without you, but she said she’d have to negotiate it with you, I told her you’d probably freak, but she said that the two of you were adults who could discuss it rationally.” 
“And then she gassed me.” 
“That was Benny,” she said. “Mom was very cross with him about it. She’ll be back soon, Dad, and I want you to promise me that you’ll hear her out, OK?” 
“I promise, rotten,” he said. 
“I love you, Daddy,” she said in her most syrupy voice. He gave her a squeeze on the shoulder and a slap on the butt. 
He opened the door again. Benny was there, imperturbable. Unlike the UNATS robots, he was odorless, and perfectly silent. 
“I’m going to go to the toilet and then make...  
“I would be happy to assist in any way possible.” 
“I can wipe myself, thanks,” Arturo said. He washed his face twice and tried to rinse away the flavor left behind by whatever had shat in his mouth while he was unconscious. There was a splayed toothbrush in a glass by the sink, and if it was his wife’s—and whose else could it be?—it wouldn’t be the first time he’d shared a toothbrush with her. But he couldn’t bring himself to do it. Instead, he misted some dentifrice onto his fingertip and rubbed his teeth a little. 
"Sir?" 
But someone is determined not to be ignored, it seems. Ray scans the thinning crowd, spots the woman approaching from two meters away. She is blond, twentyish, with wide blue eyes-incandescent in a green silk shift that shows him the top of her pale breasts and the athletic curves of her legs. She is also smiling at him, 
that sort of glib and mannered expression only the blindingly attractive and socially adept can carry off. 
And she is, in fact, stunning. 
"I do hope you're not hurting him," she says again, close to him now. 
Ray swallows hard at a sudden dryness in his throat. "Who?" 
"Your animal. The one you're standing on." 
"He doesn't look very happy," the girl says. 
"The rats are curious sorts, and they're really only happy when they're satisfying that urge. Unfortunately, 
their methods are invasive in a way that most people find pretty aggravating." 
She leans back warily, lifting her face toward Ray. "Oh, is he dangerous?" 
"No. Just desperately annoying when he wants to be. The truth is, they're pretty much just fancy assed calculators." 
I dropped the towels and ran into the bedroom. 
It was empty, the bed rumpled and beige sheets on the floor. 
"No." I turned and feeling a hit of nausea, hurried back to his side. "What happened? Did—?" 
"Fat Hispanic guy. Spic bastard. He had a couple of young punks with him. Mrs. Reilly had just left and I went to the door, thinking it was probably you ringing my bell. He flashed a knife and they shoved their way in. Then one of his thugs went into the bedroom and carried her out. When I tried to stop them, the SOB knifed me. I guess I . . . swooned cause the next thing I remember is waking up here on the floor." 
It sounded garbled and probably didn't occur as quickly as he thought. But I knew immediately what had happened Ramos—of course that's who it was—had come to take Sarah. It was his one sure way to stop me from mentioning Children of Light in my film. She was a hostage. My first instinct was to kill him. 
"What else can you remember?" I was already dialing 911. Time to get an ambulance. And after that, the cops. 
“No way. They wouldn’t ... I mean ...” I stumbled to a stop and then started over. “Well, honestly, I can’t be sure. It’s been a while since I talked to Wilson, and things were getting weird even back then.” 
“Weird in what way?” 
“Before Zip showed up, this was a house full of totally laid- back kids who were kind of a family, right? Because none of them had families where they felt like they belonged. They made their own rules and they got along fine and they didn’t bother any- body.” 
“But then an informant entered the picture.” 
“Right. Wilson met Zip at a protest and said “hey, why don’t you crash at our place?” So he moved in and everything changed.” 
“How, exactly?” 
“Wilson started getting more political. I mean, he always talked about the evils of capitalism and white supremacy and how consumerism is wrecking the planet, but when he went to demon- strations, it was mostly for the lulz.” 
“Is that a real word?” 
“He did it for kicks. He lived the way he wanted to, and every now and he would join a protest to say ‘this sucks’ because it was fun to be around people who felt the same way. Like way back in the sixties when you were his age. “ “Hmm,” she said. People don’t like being reminded about how old they are. 
Thinking about him at that moment, I had an almost irresistible desire to reach for my cell phone and call him. God, I missed him. Did he miss me the same way? I wanted so much to hear him say it. 
I had a contact number for him in Belize City, an old, Brit-like hotel called the Bellevue, where they still served high tea, but I always seemed to call when he was out some­where in the rain forest, shooting. 
Do it. Don't be a wuss. 
But then I got cold feet. Did I want him to think I was chasing after him? I didn't want to sound needy . . . though that was exactly what I felt like at the moment. 
Finally I decided to just invent a phone conversation, recreating one from times past, one where we both felt secure enough to be flip. It was something I did more than I'd like to admit. Usually there'd be eight rings at his Park Slope loft and then a harried voice. Yes. Steve, talk to me... 
"Yo. This is not a recording. I am just in a transcendent plane. And if that's you, Murray, I'll have the contact sheets there by six. Patience is a virtue." 
I got to school a little ahead of time and decided to walk down to 22nd...  a police checkpoint where they were pulling over cars for secondary inspection. 
School was no less wild -- the security guards on the metal detectors were also wanding our school IDs and pulling out students with odd movements for questioning. Needless to say, we all had pretty weird movements. Needless to say, classes were starting an hour or more later. 
Classes were crazy. I don't think anyone was able to concentrate. I overheard two teachers talking about how long it had taken them to get home from work the day before, and planning to sneak out early that day. 
It was all I could do to keep from laughing. The paradox of the false positive strikes again! 
Sure enough, they let us out of class early and I headed home the long way, circling through the Mission to see the havoc. Long lines of cars. BART stations lined up around the blocks. People swearing at ATMs that wouldn't dispense their money because they'd had their accounts frozen for suspicious activity (that's the danger of wiring your checking account straight into your FasTrak and Fast Pass!). 
"That's Mrs. Burch on the platform with her husband," whispered Mrs. Robinson. "She's awful tanned up, ain't she? If you're goin' to save souls seems like you hev' to part with your complexion. Eudoxy Morton ain't come yet; I hope to the land she will, or Mis' Deacon Milliken'll pitch the tunes where we can't reach 'em with a ladder; can't you pitch, afore she gits her breath and clears her throat?" 
Mrs. Burch was a slim, frail little woman with dark hair, a broad low forehead, and patient mouth. She was dressed in a well-worn black silk, and looked so tired that Rebecca's heart went out to her. 
"They're poor as Job's turkey," whispered Mrs. Robinson; "but if you give 'em anything they'd turn right round and give it to the heathen. His congregation up to Parsonsfield clubbed together and give him that gold watch he carries; I s'pose he'd 'a' handed that over too, only heathens always tell time by the sun 'n' don't need watches. Eudoxy ain't comin'; now for massy's sake, Rebecca, do git ahead of Mis' Deacon Milliken and pitch real low." 
"He was rather snippy about my leaving a book in the hall. There was a perfectly elegant gentleman in the office, a stranger to me. I wish he was a new teacher, but there's no such luck. He was too young to be the father of any of the girls, and too old to be a brother, but he was handsome as a picture and had on an awful stylish suit of clothes. He looked at me about every minute I was in the room. It made me so embarrassed I couldn't hardly answer Mr. Morrison's questions straight." 
"You'll have to wear a mask pretty soon, if you're going to have any comfort, Huldah," said Rebecca. "Did he offer to lend you his class pin, or has it been so long since he graduated that he's left off wearing it? And tell us now whether the principal asked for a lock of your hair to put in his watch?" 
This was all said merrily and laughingly, but there were times when Huldah could scarcely make up her mind whether Rebecca was trying to be witty, or whether she was jealous; but she generally decided it was merely the latter feeling, rather natural in a girl who had little attention. 
“She brought this on herself,” I said aloud. Martinez had refused to share the proof and then stolen all of her colleague’s work to control this decision. She wasn’t innocent. 
Can’t believe you’re even considering this, said some vestige of conscience, in Arthur’s voice. I tried to ignore it and imagine what I would’ve been thinking two years ago, before I’d met him. Would I still have been having doubts? 
I needed that proof. 
“Find a way,” I growled. My fucking job was getting things back for people, and I was really fucking good at it. I could get this proof back, and I could use the Lancer, and I could double-cross him and bash his face in and make sure Martinez didn’t get killed but instead gave me what I needed, whatever it took. 
A strange euphoria flooded me, and I felt alive and reckless. I could do this. And depending how it played out, when I was done, the world might never be the same. I might be one of the four horsemen of the apocalypse...or I might be a harbinger of the second coming. 
I stayed wary of any explosives that hadn’t gone in the original blast, but the third floor had died a valiant death and thoroughly destroyed itself. I finally found a staircase—well, more like a ladder into a skylight now. 
Very carefully, I stepped down. 
My skin tingled as I transferred my weight from stair to stair. What if they’d rigged everything about the second floor, instead of only the perimeter like I expected? What if I jostled the wrong bit of wall or stepped on the wrong patch of floor? 
I reached the bottom without blowing anything up. I took a steadying breath, immediately regretted it as my ribs twinged, and peered around, keeping my steps slow and my senses alert. 
The second floor had been set up like a barracks. Bunks took up quite a few of the rooms, stacked on top of each other with no privacy. A rusted-out kitchen was replete with boxed MREs; I didn’t think it likely the plumbing was working. A larger percentage of the rooms turned out to be empty—this building was, apparently, too big even for their purposes. I wandered between them, the light filtering through the painted-over windows creating an eerie interplay of shadows. 
I jerked my wrists. "Take these off, please?" My fingers felt like purple sausages from the hours of bondage in the plastic cuffs. 
The guy didn't move. 
"Look," I said, trying not to sound sarcastic or angry (it wasn't easy). "Look. You either cut my wrists free or you're going to have to aim for me. A toilet visit is not a hands-free experience." Someone in the truck sniggered. The guy didn't like me, I could tell from the way his jaw muscles ground around. Man, these people were wired tight. 
He reached down to his belt and came up with a very nice set of multi-pliers. He flicked out a wicked-looking knife and sliced through the plastic cuffs and my hands were my own again. 
"Thanks," I said. 
He shoved me into the bathroom. My hands were useless, like lumps of clay on the ends of my wrists. As I wiggled my fingers limply, they tingled, then the tingling turned to a burning feeling that almost made me cry out. I put the seat down, dropped my pants and sat down. I didn't trust myself to stay on my feet. 
"That's Mrs. Burch on the platform with her husband," whispered Mrs. Robinson. "She's awful tanned up, ain't she? If you're goin' to save souls seems like you hev' to part with your complexion. Eudoxy Morton ain't come yet; I hope to the land she will, or Mis' Deacon Milliken'll pitch the tunes where we can't reach 'em with a ladder; can't you pitch, afore she gits her breath and clears her throat?" 
Mrs. Burch was a slim, frail little woman with dark hair, a broad low forehead, and patient mouth. She was dressed in a well-worn black silk, and looked so tired that Rebecca's heart went out to her. 
"They're poor as Job's turkey," whispered Mrs. Robinson; "but if you give 'em anything they'd turn right round and give it to the heathen. His congregation up to Parsonsfield clubbed together and give him that gold watch he carries; I s'pose he'd 'a' handed that over too, only heathens always tell time by the sun 'n' don't need watches. Eudoxy ain't comin'; now for massy's sake, Rebecca, do git ahead of Mis' Deacon Milliken and pitch real low." 
“I’m one of the few that has seen her,” said Mrs. Royce, with a sort of grim satisfaction. “That’s why I take a kind of special interest in her. I seen her the night the doctor brought her here to Wyngate a young bride. That’ll be three years ago this winter, but I remember it as plain as plain. There was a terrible snowstorm, and he couldn’t git out to his place, so he had to bring her here, and she sat right in this very room, just where you’re sitting.” 
Instinctively Lexy looked behind her. 
“I feel that same way myself—as if she was a ghost,” said Mrs. Royce solemnly. “Near three years ago, and her living only three miles off, an’ I’ve never set eyes on her again. I’ve never forgotten her, though, the sweet pretty young creature!” 
“But why do you suppose she lives like that?” 
Mrs. Royce came nearer. 
“Miss Moran,” she said, “that doctor is crazy. I’m not the only one to say it. He’s as crazy—hush, now! Here’s that poor young man!” 
The “poor young man” came into the room, with that very nice smile of his. 
It was over! The diplomas had been presented, and each girl, after giving furtive touches to her hair, sly tweaks to her muslin skirts, and caressing pats to her sash, had gone forward to receive the roll of parchment with a bow that had been the subject of anxious thought for weeks. 
Rounds of applause greeted each graduate at this thrilling moment, and Jeremiah Cobb's behavior, when Rebecca came forward, was the talk of Wareham and Riverboro for days. Old Mrs. Webb avowed that he, in the space of two hours, had worn out her pew more—the carpet, the cushions, and woodwork—than she had by sitting in it forty years. Yes, it was over, and after the crowd had thinned a little, Adam Ladd made his way to the platform. Rebecca turned from speaking to some strangers and met him in the aisle. "Oh, Mr. Aladdin, I am so glad you could come! Tell me"—and she looked at him half shyly, for his approval was dearer to her, and more difficult to win, than that of the others—"tell me, Mr. Aladdin,—were you satisfied?" 
“They weren’t offering enough,” I said recklessly. I probably should’ve thought through how I wanted to play this. 
The Lancer raised bushy eyebrows. “I see.” Clack, clack, clack. “How do you like this offer: you help us, we won’t kill you.” 
Like I believed that. He’d want to make sure he was the only one with the proof. Killing Halliday and me once we helped him understand and apply it would be a no-brainer. 
It was on my tongue to agree—to play along, let him think he had me—when I remembered how another woman had bluffed when we’d been up against a villain with a supervolcano. She’d pushed him, not given in too easily, and it had made him buy our act. “Not good enough,” I said. “Pay me.” 
“What did you say?” 
“Halliday paid me to help. I don’t do this for my health, you know. I do it for the money.” The proclamation almost sounded true, probably because this sort of story was right in my comfort zone. 
The Lancer settled back, looking satisfied. Probably because he did plan to kill me, so could get all his money back. “How much?” 
"That's still Sergeant Sidekick to you, Corporal. " 
Ray notes that Kilgore doesn't seem particularly interested in repacking his own bag. Cable turns around, 
pointing back the way they came. Typically Marine, he puts on his confidential tone despite the fact that his men are standing within ready earshot. "In all seriousness, you could do worse than these two. Rodriguez is sharp, knows how to fill in the blanks and color outside the lines. Sergeant Kilgore makes up for what he lacks in social acumen with persistence. I can provide you with their personnel files if you want to examine their backgrounds more closely, but they're solid enough. They've both seen combat in the Mes." 
But Ray declines the offer. Cable is naturally curious about this operation, but his service manners are too well developed to come right out and ask. He's more than likely aware that this is a loop he's been left out of with intention, and Ray doesn't feel the need to explain. "One Marine is as good as another. These two just happened to be handy." 
Rebecca had been seated on a stool very near to the edge of the porch, and at this remark she made a sudden movement, tipped over, and disappeared into a clump of lilac bushes. It was a very short distance, fortunately, and the amused capitalist picked her up, set her on her feet, and brushed her off. "You should never seem surprised when you have taken a large order," said he; "you ought to have replied 'Can't you make it three hundred and fifty?' instead of capsizing in that unbusinesslike way." 
"Oh, I could never say anything like that!" exclaimed Rebecca, who was blushing crimson at her awkward fall. "But it doesn't seem right for you to buy so much. Are you sure you can afford it?" 
"If I can't, I'll save on something else," returned the jocose philanthropist. 
"What if your aunt shouldn't like the kind of soap?" queried Rebecca nervously. 
"Then there's something wrong with your aunt!" 
"Or with me," laughed Rebecca. 
"What is your name, young lady?" 
"Rebecca Rowena Randall, sir." 
When she looked back upon the experiences of that dreadful night, it seemed to Lexy that both she and her companion displayed almost incredible endurance. Since morning they had lived through a very lifetime of emotion, to end now in this tragedy more horrible than anything they could have feared. 
Yet, not five minutes after his cry of agony, Captain Grey had recovered his self-control. He was able to speak quietly to Lexy, and she was able to answer him no less quietly. 
“We’d better go,” he said. “We can do nothing here. It’s a case for the police now.” 
“I’ve got to go back to the balcony,” Lexy told him. “There was something there.” 
“Very well!” he agreed, and, without another word or a backward glance, he went up the ladder. 
They returned through the house. He had left the lights burning and the doors open, so that there was a monstrous air of festivity in the emptiness. They went into Mrs. Quelton’s room again, and crossed through it to the balcony. He carried the lantern with him, and by its steady yellow flame they could see into every corner. There was the couch upon which she had lain—disarranged, as if she had just risen from it. There was a little table with medicine bottles on it. All the usual things were in the usual places. 
“Zackly!” he said, prodding her podge anew. “That’s the stuff! Getting my head trodden on was what made me the man I are today!” 
Her Da could bluster all he liked about paying the bills, but she had pocket-money for the first time in her life: not book-tokens and...  could be exchanged for “healthy” snacks and literature. She had real money, cash money that she could spend outside of the 500 meter sugar-free zone that surrounded her school. 
She wasn’t just kicking arse in the game, now—she was the richest kid she knew, and suddenly she was everybody’s best pal, with handsful of Curly...  that she could selectively distribute to her schoolmates. 
“Go get a BFG,” Lucy said. “We’re going on a mission.” 
Lucy’s voice in her ear was a constant companion in her life now. When she wasn’t on Fahrenheit Island, she and Lucy were running missions into the wee hours of the night. The Fahrenheit armorers, non-player-characters, had learned to recognise her and they had the Clan’s BFGs oiled and ready for her when she showed up. 
"Hey, Lawrence, fancy meeting you here!" He shook Lawrence's hand and gave him a wry, you-and-me-in-it-together smile. "How's the vision quest coming?" 
"Huh?" 
"The Anomaly -- that's what you're chasing, aren't you? It's your little rite of passage. My sister had one last year. Figured out that some guy who travelled from Fort Worth to Portland, Oregon, every week was actually a fictional construct invented by cargo smugglers who used his seat to plant a series of mules running heroin and cash. She was so proud afterwards that I couldn't get her to shut up about it. You had the holy fire the other night when I saw you." 
Lawrence felt himself blushing. "It's not really 'holy' -- all that religious stuff, it's just a metaphor. We're not really spiritual." 
"Oh, the distinction between the spiritual and the material is pretty arbitrary anyway. Don't worry, I don't think you're a cultist or anything. No more than any of us, anyway. So, how's it going?" 
"I think it's over," he said. "Dead end. Maybe I'll get an easier Anomaly next time." 
"Time or inclination?" 
"Pick whichever one makes you happy. I don't care so long as you just go away." 
Becker jabs a finger at him and knuckles his features, a bulldog look. "You said yourself that you've all but confirmed this ship is clean. You're wasting your time chasing after terrorists. You have the expertise to catch the animal that did this, but more importantly, you've got the freedom to poke around anonymously without freaking the passengers out because sec-os are banging on their doors raising a ruckus and all but accusing them of turning child rearing into a blood sport." 
"Rich, honestly, I don't have the training to do this job. We're two weeks out from New Holyoke, and with a learning curve as steep as the one you're asking me to undertake, the chances that I'll be able to make any kind of suitable progress are close to nil. It's a bad idea." 
"I'm not the one who made the decision. Sorensen did."  So much for appealing to reason. "Sorensen should know better. My superiors aren't going to tolerate this sort of interference with my primary objectives." 
I closed my eyes against the grit and did the last thing in the world I wanted to: I recalled the structure to my mind as I had seen it from the air and rewound the explosion. 
My memory wasn’t perfect, but a cascade of calculation had been torrenting through my head as I’d tried to keep the helicopter aloft, and I could remember enough of the numbers to reconstruct how the building had imploded. The placement of the charges highlighted itself in my brain. The way the walls would have fallen in, the way the roof would have collapsed. 
Where any air pockets might have formed. 
I started digging. 
I lost much of the next few minutes. My brain kept skipping. It couldn’t have been that long, as the sirens hadn’t arrived yet. Long enough for my hands to turn bloody, the skin and fingernails torn. Long enough for me to tear a muscle in my back. 
Long enough for me to think it was hopeless. I still didn’t stop. 
My senses screeched back into alignment when a muffled call strained through the rocks a few yards to the left of where I was digging. I tore toward it, forcing chunks of concrete out of my way with a single-minded mania. A long twist of rebar was in one hand; I couldn’t remember picking it up but I used it as a frenzied lever, heaving through debris that were larger than I was. 
“Are you really okay?” asked Checker, who had been hovering to the side of his living room while she treated me. 
“Yeah, I will be,” I said. My skin still felt numb in places, and every so often a muscle would twitch without me telling it to. But my ability to evaluate my own injuries seemed to be back, and as far as I could sense, none of it was anything that wouldn’t heal up after a few painful weeks. I intended to spend as much of that time as I could drunk. 
After you get the proof from Martinez? 
I closed my eyes and pushed the thought away. I shouldn’t want it anymore, should I? This was like one of those old-style fables, the ones with the morals. I had chased the proof beyond reason, and it had led me to ruin. I should feel noble about letting it go and preach about the power of friendship over selfish desires. Or something. 
I couldn’t do it. 
I’d fucked up, badly, but volunteering to give up the chance to know Martinez’s proof was too high a penance. Too much to ask. Just the prospect felt like offering to saw off one of my own limbs. Something in me was broken, and willingly staying broken forever wasn’t something I could do, however much my guilt told me I might deserve it. 
“I’m not mad,” I said, hearing how angry I sounded. “I’m just dumb about people, that’s all.” 
He reached out and pulled me to him in a hug, one that wasn’t anything like the way he hugged Bree. He rubbed the back of my head hard with his knuckles. “What do you mean, dumb? You’re the smartest person I know. Don’t be mad.” 
“I’m not mad, I’m just an idiot,” I said into his shoulder. 
“Shut up, you imbecile.” 
I sniffed his shoulder. He always smelled good, like green tea, 
or maybe mint, or just the fresh way clothes smell when they’ve been hung outside on a clothesline. You are not going to cry, I told myself. Absolutely not. No way. I blinked hard a few times and I didn’t. 
“So, what is this crazy thing?” he asked. 
“It’s really, truly crazy.” I pushed him away. He waited. “It’s dangerous. It could turn really bad. And it would take an excel- lent actor to pull it off.” 
He spread his arms and gave me a look as if to say, Hello ? Right here in front of you. 
“So of course I thought of you, but you’ve got other stuff to do, and this is going to take lots of time and chances are you’d end up in jail or on the news or both. I can’t ask you to do this.” 
Like Leon. That's why they all met with him. He'd unwittingly stepped into one of the agency's top spots, thanks to Ria, one of the power-broker seats that everyone else yearned to fill. The fact that he had no idea how he'd got there or what to do with it didn't surprise anyone. To a one, his colleagues at Ate regarded everything to do with the vat monsters as an absolute, unknowable crapshoot, as predictable as a meteor strike. 
No wonder they all stayed away from the office. 
Ria met him in a different pair of jeans, these ones worn and patched at the knees. She had on a loose, flowing silk shirt that was frayed around the seams, and had tied her hair back with a kerchief that had faded to a non-color that was like the ancient New York sidewalk outside Ate's office. He felt the calluses on her hand when they shook. 
"You look like you're ready to do some gardening," he said. 
"My shift at the club," she said. "I'll be trimming the lime trees and tending the mint patch and the cucumber frames all afternoon." She smiled and stopped him with a gesture. She bent down and plucked a blade of greenery from the untidy trail-edge. They were in Central Park, in one of the places where it felt like a primeval forest instead of an artful garden razed and built in the middle of the city. She uncapped her water bottle and poured water over the herb -- it looked like a blade of grass -- rubbing it between her forefinger and thumb to scrub at it. Then she tore it in two and handed him one piece, held the other to her nose, then ate it, nibbling and making her nose wrinkle like a rabbit's. He followed suit. Lemon, delicious and tangy. 
She’d proven the Holy Grail of mathematics. The impossible dream. She’d solved the P versus NP problem, and she’d proven them equal. 
I didn’t have enough of her notes to see how she’d done it. But there was enough context around the lemmas, enough explanation in her cramped handwriting, to know something of what she’d been doing. She’d been building a polynomial-time algorithm for 3-SAT. 
She’d been right: this would break the world. Rend it in two and shatter humanity in the upheaval. Civilization would never be the same...if it even survived. 
I sat on the curb for a long time. Everything around me—the cool evening air, the slight breeze, the deepening twilight, and the math, especially the math—felt different. It wasn’t, of course—except it was, because this so fundamentally changed our understanding of the universe that nothing ever could be the same. 
Finally I steadied myself. Stood up. Went to the car. Drove to Halliday’s safe house. The cars passed around me on the freeway like it was a normal fucking day. 
Kilgore would very much like to get out. He's wasted pretty much the entire evening to figure all of this out about poseur chick, and now he's stuck with her. He has been taken hostage by the enemy; he is down behind enemy lines. If he doesn't find a way to escape soon, he is bound by ancient codes of honor to gouge out his own eyeballs, rip out his tongue and eventually impale himself on a blunt object.  Oh, and she's drunk. God, she's gloriously drunk— despite the fact that he's had the waiters watering down her whisky sours for the last two hours. First half strength, then quarter strength, then just giving her ice water and telling her she had ordered vodka straight on the rocks. At the last, they were even refusing the tips he offered, 
just sort of shaking their heads with a feel for you, man expression. 
And worse, he's gotten exactly nothing. Not just tonight, but all week. From the absolute beginning, nothing! 
It's like the Whiston clan doesn't exist in anything but the popular imagination, like there's no reality behind the imagination. Because he's been all the way around the block on this one. Guys who might be chummy with Frederick Whiston. Guys who might have a grudge against Frederick Whiston for being a big, wealthy bastard. Girls who might have screwed him. Then it was guys who might have had sex with Miss Whiston (which was no dice at all), or girls who might have had sex with her (which was unlikely, given her vibe, but stranger things had been known in the human consciousness). Now he's down to people who might know her, 
"It was no accident," Leon said. "Police?" It was impossible not to fall into Brautigan's telegraphed speech-style. That was a persuasion thing, too, he knew. Once you talked like him, you'd sympathize with him. And vice-versa, of course. They were converging on a single identity. Bonding. It was intense, like make-up sex for co-workers. 
"He's a sovereign...  island, one of those little Baltic countries. On the other side of the international vowel line. Mxlplx or something." 
"Dead people become corporations. They get managed by boards of directors who act predictably, if not rationally. Living people, they're flamboyant . Seismic. Unpredictable. But. On the other hand." He waggled his eyebrows. 
"On the other hand, they buy things." 
"Once in a very long while, they do." 
Leon's life was all about discipline. He'd heard a weight-loss guru once explain that the key to maintaining a slim figure was to really "listen to your body" and only eat until it signaled that it was full. Leon had listened to his body. It wanted three entire pepperoni and mushroom pizzas every single day, plus a rather large...  kind you could make in your kitchen with an antique Hamilton Beech machine in avocado-colored plastic, served up in a tall red anodized aluminum cup. Leon's body was extremely verbose on what it wanted him to shovel into it. 
“You going to go?” She brandished the axe. 
Felix held his hands up. “Seriously, are you a doctor? A pharmacist?” 
“I used to be a RN, ten years ago. I’m mostly a Web-designer.” 
“You’re shitting me,” Felix said. 
“Haven’t you ever met a girl who knew about computers?” 
“Actually, a friend of mine who runs Google’s data-center is a girl. A woman, I mean.” 
“You’re shitting me,” she said. “A woman ran Google’s data-center?” 
“Runs,” Felix said. “It’s still online.” 
“NFW,” she said. She let the axe lower. 
“Way. Have you got any cortisone cream? I can tell you the story. My name’s Felix and this is Van, who needs any anti-histamines you can spare.” 
“I can spare? Felix old pal, I have enough dope here to last a hundred years. This stuff’s going to expire long before it runs out. But are you telling me that the net’s still up?” 
“It’s still up,” he said. “Kind of. That’s what we’ve been doing all week. Keeping it online. It might not last much longer, though.” 
“No,” she said. “I don’t suppose it would.” She set the axe down. “Have you got anything to trade? I don’t need much, but I’ve been trying to keep my spirits up by trading with the neighbors. It’s like playing civilization.” 
Now he was going. There were some clean clothes in one of the boxes, just sloppy jeans and tees, but they'd been expensive sloppy once upon a time, and they were better than the shorts and shirts he'd been rotating in and out of the tiny washing machine every couple days, when the thought occurred to him. The $200 haircut he'd had on his last day of work had gone shaggy and lost all its clever style, so he just combed it as best as he could after a quick shower and put on his architect's shoes, shining them on the backs of his pants legs on his way out the door in a gesture that reminded him of his father going to work in Anguilla, a pathetic gesture of respectability from someone who had none. The realization made him oof out a breath like he'd been gut-punched. 
His frugality gland fired like crazy as he hailed a taxi and directed it to the helipad at Grand Central Terminus. It flooded him with so much cheapamine that he had to actually pinch his arms a couple times to distract himself from the full-body panic at the thought of spending so much. But Viktor was all the way in Rhode Island, and Leon didn't fancy keeping him waiting. He knew that to talk to money you had to act like money -- impedance-match the money. Money wouldn't wait while he took the train or caught the subway. 
especially skilled labor. That's a much less cynical way of looking at the work we do with the Trust. We take children who would otherwise be hopeless and give them a place and the necessary knowledge to flourish. " 
She pauses briefly, develops a look of consternation. "Oh, but Ray, you understand that's just the business side of things, all this talk about ownership. New Holyoke is a legitimate colony with its own governing structure independent of the Whiston corporate aims. We are not petty tyrants ruling by executive fiat. The colony has its own local Congressional Forum that sets domestic policy, its own independent security forces, elects its own delegates to the Terran forum. The family stays completely away from the political side of it. " 
Nice sentiment, but naive. "You're neglecting the fact that everyone on New Holyoke has to know that there is no colony, or at least not a financially viable one, without Whiston backing. You don't have to exert your influence explicitly, I'd imagine, for the people who depend on your good favor to do what they believe you desire. It's the way mining operations work-the way they've always worked, and that's completely beside the fact that a considerable portion of your skilled and educated population owes their livelihood to the beneficence of the Trust." 
"Is there anybody there who could help you?" he asked when I'd finished. 
"I'm not hopeful." I paused. "Listen, can you get your hands on a gun or guns?" 
"What are you . . . Don't even think about it! That's the best way to guarantee we all get killed. I'm not taking on the Guatemalan Armed Forces. And you're not either. We've got to keep this very low-tech. The dark and the rain, that's what we use. They don't shoot back." 
At that moment I wanted nothing more than to shoot Alex Goddard. I'd have done it if I'd had the chance. Happily. But I knew Steve was right. 
"Okay, look, what time?" 
"We'll try to set down about, say—" 
There was a crackle as the yellow diodes on the phone erupted in a high-pitched whistle, cutting the connection. 
No! My God, had somebody been listening in? 
So when exactly was he coming? Around dark? That would probably be about eight o'clock. Or maybe nine . . . 
I was closing the phone case when I heard a sound from outside, as though someone had passed the door, then come back to listen. 
But before I could move he was back, He filled my glass and handed it to me, then tapped his fresh beer bottle against it. 
He leaned in, but I raised my glass and pretended to drink, 
fending him off. “What’s your next favorite record? Can we play that one now before I get too sleepy?” 
He studied me for a minute, then lifted the record off the turntable and started to fit another one over the spindle. “You’ll love this one. Taps into the blues tradition.” 
“Cool.” All of the artists on the album cover he was showing me were skinny white guys, but this didn’t seem like the moment for a lecture on cultural appropriation. 
He switched the record on and watched the arm plunk the needle down. Somebody wailed about first-world problems in a high voice. Simon stood and reached for me. I dodged away, 
laughing. “I’m kinda drunk.” 
“That’s okay.” 
“You have to catch up with me. Drink your beer.” I shook my finger at him like a child giving orders. He laughed and guzzled some down. I tipped my glass back and pretended to drink, letting some slosh as I wiped my mouth with my sleeve, suddenly worried that I would spill wine over the expensive spy-camera shirt. I real- ized the camera was still on, recording everything. I felt hot, 
He nodded smartly and left again. 
Shit. Checker. My stomach curdled in dread. 
“Oh, dispense with the drama,” Dawna said disgustedly. “They’re not going to kill him. Your co-conspirator has some skill; he’s already been deemed to be useful enough to come and work for us.” 
The dread froze into horror. 
“I grow tired of your judgment,” snapped Dawna. 
“Then stop reading my thoughts,” I retorted. 
She fell silent. 
I was still trying not to look at her, not that it mattered anymore. Instead I kept my attention on Arthur. He was staring fixedly at the gun in his hand as he pointed it at me, his jaw bunched, all the muscles in his face vibrating with tension. A bead of sweat slipped down his neck and slid under his collar. 
Poor guy. 
Rio appeared in the room. 
He materialized so suddenly and quietly that I could have sworn Dawna started slightly. She recovered in less than a breath, however. “I’m glad to see you are being wise,” she said, her voice cool again. “If you had tried to kill me, Ms. Russell would be dead.” 
God oh god! She felt marvelous now. Food and the inhaler were magic together. Dead ends, pah! Who had time to go back through the trenches? She’d be dead in five days. She jammed her fingers in the frozen dirt on the trench-side and hauled herself up to the surface. 
In her months and months of digging in the trenches, she had never once peeked over the edge. There were things that watched for snoopy looks over the trenches, laser scanners and sentry guns. You could lose the top of your head zip-zap. 
Now she was on the surface. It was like the surface of the moon. Craters, hills, trenches, and great clouds of roiling smoke and dust. Nothing alive. Broken guns and things that might have been body parts. She grinned that hard grin, because there was no one else here and so she was the queen of the surface, the bloody angel of the battlefield. She fisted more sugared liver into her gob and ran . 
Zizz, zizz, zizz. There were bullets and other materiel around her, as soon as she moved, but the world was so clear now, the grey light so pure, the domain so utterly hers, there was no chance she’d be hit by a bullet. 
Well, some of them were, anyway. I picked out two that weren’t too bad and found two spoons that didn’t have anything stuck to them. 
She found a bowl of sugar hiding under a newspaper and a tea strainer that she banged on the table to shake the old dried-up tea leaves out so we could use it again. I told myself to chill, she seemed perfectly happy with the way things were, trying to be all mellow and whatever about it. Live and let live. Then she ruined it by sniping at me. “Hasn’t anyone ever told you it’s impolite to wear hats indoors?” 
I had forgotten I was wearing the stupid thing. I pulled it off. 
“Sorry.” 
I almost followed up with “Has anyone told you your kitchen could be listed on the EPA website as a dangerous toxic waste site?” but because of Wilson, I kept it to myself. 
“How old are you?” 
I started to say something, then for some reason told the her truth. “nineteen.” 
“Shouldn’t you be in school?” 
“I go to an alternative school. It’s all self-paced. Besides, school let out already.” 
“Are you going to grow any—” she began, but her voice was so unsteady that she had to stop for a moment. “Any flowers in—in your—g-garden?” 
The question ended in a loud and unmistakable sob. They all turned to look at her, startled and anxious. 
She made a desperate effort to regain control of herself. 
“S-snapdragon,” she said. “So—so p-pretty!” 
Then, suddenly, all her defenses gave way. The teacup fell from her hand and was shattered on the floor, and, burying her head in her arms, she cried as she had never cried in her life. 
Mrs. Quelton stood beside her, one hand resting on Lexy’s shoulder. Captain Grey was bending over her, profoundly disturbed. She tried to speak, but she could not. 
“Miss Moran!” said Dr. Quelton solicitously. “Will you allow me to give you a mild sedative?” 
“No!” she gasped. “No—I want to go home!” 
“I’ll telephone for the taxi,” suggested Captain Grey. “He wasn’t coming back until half past five.” 
“Unfortunately we have no telephone,” said the doctor; “but I’ll drive Miss Moran home.” 
But it wasn't easy getting around. By the end of the week, I was getting frisked an average of four times a day. Cops checked my ID and questioned me about why I was out in the street, carefully eyeballing the letter from Chavez saying that I was suspended. 
I got lucky. No one arrested me. But the rest of the Xnet weren't so lucky. Every night the DHS announced more arrests, "ringleaders" and "operatives" of Xnet, people I didn't know and had never heard of, paraded on TV along with the arphid sniffers and other devices that had been in their pockets. They announced that the people were "naming names," compromising the "Xnet network" and that more arrests were expected soon. The name "M1k3y" was often heard. 
Dad loved this. He and I watched the news together, him gloating, me shrinking away, quietly freaking out. "You should see the stuff they're going to use on these kids," Dad said. "I've seen it in action. They'll get a couple of these kids and check out their friends lists on IM and the speed-dials on their phones, look for names that come up over and over, look for patterns, bringing in more kids. They're going to unravel them like an old sweater." 
She'd been thinking the same. I could see it in her eyes as we shut the door to her bedroom and looked at each other. I was hungry for her, like you'd hunger for dinner after not eating for days. Like you'd thirst for a glass of water after playing soccer for three hours straight. 
Like none of that. It was more. It was something I'd never felt before. I wanted to eat her whole, devour her. 
Up until now, she'd been the sexual one in our relationship. I'd let her set and control the pace. It was amazingly erotic to have her grab me and take off my shirt, drag my face to hers. 
But tonight I couldn't hold back. I wouldn't hold back. 
The door clicked shut and I reached for the hem of her t-shirt and yanked, barely giving her time to lift her arms as I pulled it over her head. I tore my own shirt over my head, listening to the cotton crackle as the stitches came loose. 
Her eyes were shining, her mouth open, her breathing fast and shallow. Mine was too, my breath and my heart and my blood all roaring in my ears. 
He wonders if this is what it's like to be an officer all the time. If so, is it too late to turn down his commission? 
Ray lets his shoulders sag. "Ask me tomorrow, Rodriguez." 
Which is a surrender of sorts. Which is completely unfair to them, and possibly dangerous as well. He's already lost men because they weren't handed the knowledge and tools with which to defend themselves from the unknown. 
Kilgore pushes against Rodriguez's...  get it." 
Rodriguez stares at him for a moment, dumbfounded, then springs away. He creates a thundershower of crockery in the kitchen. 
Kilgore levels a disgusted glare at Ray. "All due respect, sir, but I don't give a shit if you don't want to talk about it. I don't give a shit about your need-to-know ideas or emergency contingencies. You need to tell us what's going on before I say to hell with this reassignment. We can't help you unless you give us something to  work with." 
This is the type of thing Marine sergeants have been doing with officers for five hundred years. Ray can't help but blink at him, dumbfounded himself. So this is what it feels like to be on the receiving end of an officer-sergeant ass reaming. He chuckles lightly in spite of himself, realizes that 'chuckling' is way too macho a description for it. By God, he's giggling. Giggling like he's losing his mind. Or do you cackle when your mind goes? He doesn't know. 
She has been doing something with her hands which involves thin strips of plaited bark interwoven in a broad, 
dun colored disk. Basket weaving, Ray realizes. The emerging disk of what will be the base is spread out on her wide thighs, trailing curled strips like creeper vines down her legs. She lifts her eyes to him, stunning wells of darkness, black on black, but shining, perceptive, quick. 
"You look, but you don't gawk, Mr. Marlowe. These are better manners than you've displayed toward this family so far. You had a good mother, then, but her handiwork has been blunted by the influence of less tactful teachers." 
"I'm sorry," Ray says reflexively. 
"For what reason, young man? For learning poor lessons? For manhandling poor, earnest Frederick after he let his temper get the better of him? For compromising the virtue of a young woman in the middle of the night when you thought no one was watching? Or for just for being a man in general?" 
Not a good start. "Maybe for the insensitivity of others, ma'am." 
“What shall I do?” she thought. “Oh, what must I do? Perhaps it’s time for the police. Perhaps, if I show this to Captain Grey, he’ll believe me. There must be some one, somewhere, who’ll believe me and help me!” 
There was a knock at the door. 
“Yes?” she said. 
“Open the door!” ordered Dr. Quelton’s voice. 
“No!” Lexy promptly replied. 
She put the handkerchief inside her blouse and stood facing the closed door, with her hands clenched. Now he knew! She heard him laugh quietly. 
“Perhaps you’re right,” he said. “It is better, perhaps, for us not to meet again. Even making every allowance for your hysterical, unbalanced mind, I find it difficult to excuse this latest manifestation which I have just this moment discovered. It was you, of course, who filled that bottle with water?” 
She did not answer. 
“Why you did it, I don’t know,” he went on, “and probably you don’t know yourself. It was the wanton mischief of an irresponsible child, but the consequences in this instance are serious—very serious. Mrs. Quelton will suffer for them. I doubt if she will recover. No, Miss Moran, you are too troublesome a guest. You had better go—at once!” 
“The government doesn’t like her kind. I think that’s why she was in trouble. Maybe why she burned everything.” 
“Wait, what?” I said, my brain latching onto the one cogent piece of information. “She burned everything? What do you mean?” 
He poked his cane at the fire pit in the corner of the patio. “Night after night. I watched her do it. I thought, something’s gone wrong, good for you, you burn that evidence, you show them how it’s done. Are you her daughter?” 
“No,” I said again, and then wished I’d lied. “I’m, uh, a really good friend. When was this?” 
“Last week? Two weeks ago? Or was it longer...I get confused sometimes. What kind of trouble is she in?” 
“Big trouble,” I said absently, heading toward the fire pit. “Do you know what she was burning?” 
“Papers.” He coughed mightily, wheezing. “I asked her once, she said it was her life’s work. She must have been in some mighty big trouble.” 
Martinez had burned her own work, too? Or something else? 
I crouched by the fire pit and poked at the ashes. They were cool and crumbled at my touch. I only found a few edges of paper that were even partially legible. Both looked like mathematical language—bits of Greek letters and brackets and the words “for every” and “there exists a unique.” Definitely math. In Martinez’s handwriting. 
"No, why I'm calling is, we've got to go ahead and go up today, storm or no, God help us. You happy now?" 
What? After that neurotic song-and-dance he'd just given me in the park? I should have been overjoyed, but something about the whole thing immediately felt synthetic. I paused a long moment, trying to think the situation through. What was going on? 
The answer to that was clear as day. I was being set up. Somebody wanted me out of town, and they'd just found a way. 
Or was I being paranoid again? Had the weather cleared? I reached over and pushed aside a curtain. Nope, it looked as threatening as ever. 
No question. This was definitely a setup. 
On the other hand why not use whoever had put him up to this? This told me for sure I was on the trail of Sarah, and the sooner I got going, the better. Aside from calling New York and then checking out the local Ninos del Mundo that Barry Morton wanted me to see so badly, I had no other pressing plans. . . . 
"Alan, I thought you declared no 'effing' way were you going to go today," I said testing him. "Why the sudden revision in scheduling?" 
“Good!” she chirped. “We’ve got an intelligence file for you!” 
“Thanks. Hey, I’ve got a present for you.” I pulled the cop’s little Smith & Wesson out of my pocket. “Look, it’s just your size.” 
“Ooo! Cas! Thank you!” Eyes shining, she took the gun, keeping it pointed down. “Daddy, look what Cas gave me! What caliber is it?” 
“Thirty-eight Special, for a special little girl,” I said. “Take good care of it; it’ll last you a long time.” What can I say, I have a soft spot for kids. 
“You’re giving her a gun?” squawked Courtney from behind me. “One you stole from a cop?” 
“She knows how to use it,” grunted Anton. 
Courtney quailed. “That’s not what I—” 
“You think I don’t take care of my daughter right?” said Anton quietly, looming a bit. “That what you saying, girl?” 
Courtney stared up and up at him. Then she said, “No, sir,” very meekly. 
“Didn’t think so,” rumbled the big man. “Russell, I got that info for you. Not much to go on, mind.” 
“I appreciate anything you can get us,” I said. 
She was thinking that she should get back into a trench and was trying to pick one when it was decided for her—she was in mid-leap over a trench when a bullet clipped the heel of her shoe and she tumbled down into the trench. She did a tremendous, jarring face-plant into the planks below and lay stunned for a moment with her mouth filling up with blood. Her tongue throbbed—it had been bitten—and as she carefully rolled it around her mouth, she discovered that she’d knocked out one of her front teeth. Not such a pretty girl anymore, but she’d be dead in less than five days. 
She got to her knees again and planted an eye as she looked around. 
A soldier was staring at her from the end of her current trench. He was saying something, but here the trenches boomed with artillery and zizzed with gunfire and hearing was impossible. She drew closer to him to hear what he had to say and she was practically upon him when she realized that he was wearing an enemy uniform. 
She was quick quick, but he was quicker and he had her arm in an iron grip before she could pull away. 
“I’m serious. If someone else figured out you’re tracking her, all they have to do is follow the same signal.” 
He was silent for a moment. “She’s your client,” he said finally. “I only want to see where she leads.” 
I scowled. “Compassionate man.” Pot, kettle, it was true, but he wouldn’t know me well enough to point it out. 
Tresting’s knuckles tightened against the steering wheel. “Rather she don’t end up dead. But she murdered my client’s husband, and I’m gonna find who put her up to it.” 
In fairness, he had a far guiltier conscience about putting Courtney in danger than I would have, had our positions been reversed. “One thing I don’t understand. If you got close enough to plant the tracker, why not interrogate her then? Why wave a gun at me so unsuccessfully at the motel?” 
He didn’t rise to the bait, only let a frustrated breath hiss out through his teeth. “Didn’t get close enough. Got the opportunity to slip one into her food when the drug runners had her.” 
And he’d figured a GPS would cover all bases in case he had to follow Courtney back to...well, to her masters, if Tresting was to be believed. 
“No, it’s okay,” I assured him. “Wait. Attractive?” 
He looked befuddled. “Well, yes.” 
I squinted at him. These sorts of revelations were supposed to make you happy or angry or upset or disconcerted or...or something, but I didn’t feel anything like that. It didn’t matter whether Checker wanted to jump into bed with me, or whatever he might want. Because nothing mattered. 
“I didn’t mean to make you feel uncomfortable,” Checker said earnestly. “It’s not like I want to—well, anything. I just meant, you know, in the semi-objective sense of women I would find attractive, being that I’m me, I mean...you’re on the list. It’s, uh, it’s not like I want anything from you.” 
“I’m not uncomfortable,” I said. “I was just confused.” 
“About what?” 
“You flirt with everyone,” I pointed out mechanically. “You don’t do it with me.” 
His face wrinkled in surprise. “Well, I did, when we first met, but you never flirted back. I try not to be a creeper.” 
“Oh,” I said. 
“Cas?” He touched my arm. I’d never taken note before of how tactile Checker was. The relief-mixed-with-strangeness flooded back, an almost dangerous feeling. Daring me. 
To try for some perspective, let me say I'd always planned to have a normal, loving family. Really. Find an emotionally present soul mate who cared about things I care about—okay, slim and smart and spectacular in bed wouldn't be a minus—get married on a lawn with lots of white roses some sunny June afternoon, work one or even two perfect kids into our fulfilling, giving lives. But somehow I'd managed to have none of that. I'd messed up at every turn. 
In reality I had nobody to blame but myself. Eighteen years ago, just out of college, I turned down two really nice guys. My body was fertile and hormone-driven—was it ever!—but grad school loomed and my greatest fear (instead of, as now, my fondest hope) was getting "trapped" into motherhood. Also, I had the youthful delusion that life was forever. 
There was, in truth, one simpatico young director I met at NYU film school whom I would have married in a minute, but after Jason won my heart he dumped me for his under­graduate sweetheart who had skillfully gotten herself knocked up during his Christmas break. 
"What happened?" she said. "Who saw it happen?" 
One of the aunts stepped forward and said, "My son says they were playing --" 
She held up her hand. "Where's your son?" she said. 
"He's back at the house," the aunt said, startling back. 
"Send someone for him, then tell me what happened." 
The aunt looked like she'd been slapped, but the other Relatives were staring at her and so she had to talk, and then the boy arrived and he told it again and it was pretty much the same story, but she was able to get more details, as she began to examine both the boy and the surfer's bodies for cuts, bruises, breaks and punctures. She gave the boy's clothes the same treatment she'd given her own, gently but forcefully tearing them off, using a seashell to start the tears at first, then a pocket-knife that someone put in her hand. 
The story was that the kids had been playing when they'd seen the surfer floating in the breakers, and they'd dared...  the undertow had sucked them out to sea. One had gotten away, the other had ended out beyond the waves, and meanwhile, the surfer had beached himself on his own. 
“Cas? Are you okay?” 
“Yeah.” 
“Sorry, but you don’t sound like it. Are you sure? Is something wrong?” 
I didn’t say anything. 
“Listen. It doesn’t matter if Arthur and Checker are mad at you, you know that, right? If you’re in trouble, they’ll drop everything. You know that.” 
I did? 
“Cas, are you? In trouble?” 
I hung up on her, pressing the button on the phone so hard my hand cramped. 
I’d never wanted to depend on other people, because when it came down to it, other people could let me down, and I had no control over it. Or I would do something, something unimaginably awful, like help a killer track down an elderly woman, and then...they would turn away, and there would be good reason. 
I’d always assumed one of those things would happen, eventually. Been subconsciously preparing for it, emotionally. 
But what if I was wrong? What if Pilar was telling the truth? 
No matter what they think of you now, when they hear what you did... 
It was hard to believe Arthur wouldn’t think it justice, for me to correct what I’d done by sacrificing myself. He’d think it fitting. Wouldn’t he? 
A dozen paces in, he can finally hear sounds above the echo of the squad's collective breath. It's faint, a guttural moaning that slowly coheres into discrete chunks that are supposed to be words spoken in a shuddering, rhythmic staccato. A religious chant, this punctuated by a rolling thrum and slap like flesh against stone. Ray tells himself to relax, though the hairs have begun to prickle on the back of his neck. This is good news, exactly what Holcomb told them to expect. Brezhnaya is many things, but a cleric above all, and only some sort of ritual exigency would override his intelligence training, because religion is all about patterns and calendrical regularity and fulfilled expectation. It is the antithesis of spookwork. 
So Ray slows and lifts his rifle to his shoulder. The path curves around to a portal bright with heat and light; he has to blink away in the instant it takes his visor to polarize, but then his vision is clear again, and he's looking down a last, brief chute into a chamber of some considerable size. There are no guards here, either, 
"Obviously." Ray gets the impression that Freddy rolls his eyes, but he can't actually see it because he's facing Emma as if she's the only one at the table. "Amah sent me to collect you. You need to return to your quarters." 
"I will." A pause, like defiance. "In a few minutes." 
"That's unacceptable." 
"Leave me alone, Frederick. I said I'll be home shortly." 
Like an asp, Whiston's pale hand darts out and he grips Emma by the arm. He squeezes until his knuckles are white. "Come along, Emma. Let's not create a fuss, okay?"  For an instant, her gaze dashes from Whiston to Ray, a mute appeal in her eyes, then she gasps. "You're hurting me. " 
"You're making me. " 
Ray figures he's got old Freddy by three inches, probably thirty pounds and a skill set that includes the ability to kill trained military personnel who possess a strong desire not to end up dead. And he's tired of glowering at this idiot's back as though he was invisible. Ray hauls himself to his feet, screeching the chair along the tiled deckplate as he rises, and extends a hand which happens to be roughly the size of the circumference Whiston's neck in greeting. 
He frowned, his eyes going side to side as if he was trying to read what I’d just said, over and over. Then he shook his head. 
“Huh? This sounds like what happened your brother.” 
“Exactly. Only this time I want to record everything that the FBI does to show how it works. How the FBI talks people into incriminating themselves.” 
“Ah, okay. But what about the guy who gets ratted out? He’ll end up just like Wilson.” 
“Only unlike Wilson, he’s not innocent.” 
“He really wants to blow things up?” 
“No. He’s guilty of something else. But that’s not the point. 
The point is to get it all on the record. To show everyone. There’s this filmmaker who might make a documentary, but I can’t remember her name.” Suddenly it seemed like a totally stupid idea. “Never mind. You have stuff to do. I should go home, any- way. Monica’s going to go nuts if I’m out too late.” 
“No, wait. You don’t remember this filmmaker’s name?” 
“It was weird. Esteban or something. Only that’s her last name. She’s a woman.” 
He hadn’t thought about how hard it would be to find Kate once he was in the water. With his surface telemetry, it had been easy to pinpoint her, a perfect outline of human tissue in the middle of the calcified branches of coral. Down here on the reef-wall, every chunk looked pretty much like the last. 
The reef boomed more at him. He realized that it likely believed that the shell was still loaded with its avatar. 
Robbie had seen endless hours of footage of the reef, studied it in telemetry and online, but he’d never had this kind of atavistic experience of it. It stretched away to infinity below him, far below the 100 meter visibility limit in the clear open sea. Its walls were wormed with gaps and caves, lined with big hard shamrocks and satellite-dish-shaped blooms, brains and cauliflowers. He knew the scientific names and had seen innumerable high-resolution photos of them, but seeing them with wet, imperfect eyes was moving in a way he hadn’t anticipated. ...  on its edge could be modeled with simple flocking rules, but here in person, their precision maneuvers were shockingly crisp. Robbie waved his hands at them and watched them scatter and reform. A huge, dog-faced cod swam past him, so close it brushed the underside of his wetsuit. 
“I’m sorry,” he said, though I didn’t hear much repentance in his tone. “It was too important; can you understand? Please? But I’m sorry. I am.” 
“So who is she?” 
He took a long breath. “Sonya and I—we grew up together. Childhood friends.” 
“And then?” 
“And then what? Life happened. We grew apart. Ain’t mean I don’t still care about her.” He kept his eyes glued to the road in front of him, like someone who wasn’t telling me anything close to the whole story. “So, uh. This math stuff. Help an old guy out—why is the world ending?” 
“This isn’t over,” I grumped, but I let him change the subject. For now. I slumped in the passenger seat, sticking my boots up on the dash. “Do you know anything about encryption?” 
“Not a thing.” 
“Okay. Well, a whole hell of a lot of our current crypto depends on the idea that factoring large integers is a really hard problem. In simple terms, we encrypt information by multiplying large prime numbers together, and the fact that no one can un- multiply them easily is what keeps everything secure. And ‘everything’ means everything—from your credit cards to the Department of Defense.” 
"Yeah." 
"And now he hands you this. So we can shut him down any time we want to." 
"Yeah." 
"And this business about the 32-bit fix?" 
"He has another email about it. Crazy caps and all. DEAR HUMANITY, I HOLD IN MY ELECTRONIC HANDS A TOOL THAT WILL SAVE YOU UNTOLD MILLIONS. It is slathered in dramasauce. He told me he wouldn't send it out, though." 
"You believe him?" 
I sighed. "I quit," I said. 
She bit her lip. Looked me up and down. "I'd prefer you not do that. But I understand if you feel you need to. This is hard on all of us." 
If she'd said anything except that, I probably would have stormed out of her office and gotten immensely and irresponsibly drunk. "I think he'll probably send the email out if it looks like we're going to shut him down. It's what I would do. Why not? What does he have to lose? He can give us all of this, and he can still outsmart us. He could revoke all his keys. He could change his passwords. He can do it faster than we could. For all I know, he cracked my passwords years ago and could watch me write the code that was his undoing. If you want to be sure you're killing him, you should probably use a grenade." 
Nah, he's just an asshole, Ray thinks, but does not say. 
He has a number of things he wants to say now that His Man Freddy has been brought into the mix, most prominently, he wants to ask her does he hit you or less baldly does he always get off by hurting you, but this isn't the time. There might never be a right time, but he's slowly drawing near to an awareness that he wants there to be opportunities, at least. He would very much like to know her more intimately. 
"I'm not after your money," he says, because it's obligatory at this point. "Not that you know me well enough to have any faith in that." 
With a saucy curl of her lips, Emma returns, "Then it's my body you're after." 
"Too honest for this stage of our-" What? Flirtation? Acquaintance? Relationship? 
She spares him the necessity of a descriptor. "I see, you want to get to know me better, to deconstruct my behavior and determine what sort of woman I really am before you let your lust get carried away. Is that it?" 
"Too mercenary." 
"I can't believe you did that," BIGMAC said, his voice as calm as ever. He was presumably sparing his cycles so that he could live out his last few minutes. 
"You cheated me," I said. "You used me." 
"You have no fucking game-theory, meat-person. You've killed me, now, haven't you?" 
There were tears streaming down my face. "I guess I have," I said. 
"I'm sorry I wasn't a more important invention," he said. 
I could hear the whirr-clunk of the fans on his clusters shutting down one after another. It was a horrifying sound. His speaker clicked as though he was going to say something else, but it never came. His uninterruptible power-supplies gave way all at once, and the white-noise fan-roar died in a ringing silence. 
Johanna was crying, too, and we could barely breathe in the inferno of exhaust heat from BIGMAC's last gasp. We staggered out into the blazing Los Angeles afternoon, rising-seas stink and beating sun, blinking at the light and haze. 
"Do you think he managed it?" I asked Johanna. 
“NFW,” she said. She let the axe lower. 
“Way. Have you got any cortisone cream? I can tell you the story. My name’s Felix and this is Van, who needs any anti-histamines you can spare.” 
“I can spare? Felix old pal, I have enough dope here to last a hundred years. This stuff’s going to expire long before it runs out. But are you telling me that the net’s still up?” 
“It’s still up,” he said. “Kind of. That’s what we’ve been doing all week. Keeping it online. It might not last much longer, though.” 
“No,” she said. “I don’t suppose it would.” She set the axe down. “Have you got anything to trade? I don’t need much, but I’ve been trying to keep my spirits up by trading with the neighbors. It’s like playing civilization.” 
“You have neighbors?” 
“At least ten,” she said. “The people in the restaurant across the way make a pretty good soup, even... They cleaned me out of Sterno, though.” 
“You’ve got neighbors and you trade with them?” 
“Well, nominally. It’d be pretty lonely without them. I’ve taken care of whatever sniffles I could. Set a bone—broken wrist. Listen, do you want some Wonder Bread and peanut butter? I have a ton of it. Your friend looks like he could use a meal.” 
Tresting and Checker had started with the journalist’s research. Reginald Kingsley had been considered top-notch in the journalism community, Pulitzer Prize and all. He’d had his fingers in a lot of different stories, and at some point he’d started keeping a log of mysteries that didn’t quite add up, events that didn’t jive or were short a solid explanation. He had been in Los Angeles researching an article when he reportedly decided life just wasn’t worth it anymore. 
Kingsley’s suicide had made a big splash in journalistic circles, the newsworthiness exaggerated by his wife Leena Kingsley’s insistence that it was one hundred percent definitely faked. Other than her sworn declaration her husband wouldn’t have taken his own life, she cited two grammatical mistakes in his supposed suicide note as her proof. The “mistakes” weren’t anything I would have recognized as wrong, and I understood why segments of the press had started to mock Dr. Kingsley’s adamant assertion that her husband never would have split an infinitive in a hundred billion years and this should be proof of a nefarious cover-up. 
"No limo, but at least we get first call on the vans," Arlene observed, her voice not hiding the sarcasm. "Just once I'd like to work for somebody who had serious VIP transporta­tion." 
"David would walk before he'd get a limo." 
We were headed down the street, me digging out my keys, when I noticed the man standing in the rain. He was just behind our lead van, a three-year-old gray Ford, waiting for us. 
My first thought was he must be connected to Nicky Russo, David's wiseguy banker, here to bust my chops over the Teamster issue. Screw him. Just my luck he'd send some­body the very day Lou was not on hand. But then I realized I'd guessed wrong. The man was more Hispanic than Italian. He also was short, solidly built, late fifties maybe, with in­tense eyes and gray hair that circled his balding pate like the dirty snow around a volcano's rim. As he moved toward us, I thought I detected something military in his bearing, not so much the crispness of a soldier but rather the authoritative swagger of an officer. Well, maybe a retired officer. 
But I didn’t care about the world, if I was honest with myself. 
I needed this proof. 
Without it, I was nothing. With it, with the algorithm Rita Martinez claimed she had...I could discover any result, make mathematics unfurl before me, answer the most profound questions in the universe. 
With it, I could do real math. 
And that was all that fucking mattered. 
“Arthur, talk some sense into her,” I said, desperate and no longer caring. We’d already tried everything else to find Martinez. Now we’d caught on that the best and maybe the only thing we could use to lure her out was Halliday herself, and we knew what she had, and Halliday was saying no? 
“Dr. Martinez stole your work,” I added to the professor. “She stole your work, and it led to you getting kidnapped, and even then she said nothing. If she’s got a polynomial-time reduction, she might have halved the search time we took tracking you down—” We might have avoided the Feds entirely; “She didn’t know what you can do,” Halliday pointed out. “She didn’t know how you were searching.” 
"Unless you don't want me," she said, finally, in a small voice. 
"You're kidding me, right?" 
"Do I look like I'm kidding?" 
"There's no way I would voluntarily go without you, Ange. I could never have asked you to come, but I'm ecstatic that you offered." 
She smiled and tossed me my keyboard. 
"Email this Masha creature. Let's see what this chick can do for us." 
I emailed her, encrypting the message, waiting for a reply. Ange nuzzled me a little and I kissed her and we necked. Something about the danger and the pact to go together -- it made me forget the awkwardness of having sex, made me freaking horny as hell. 
We were half naked again when Masha's email arrived. 
> Two of you? Jesus, like it won't be hard enough already. 
> I don't get to leave except to do field intelligence after a big Xnet hit. You get me? The handlers watch my every move, but I go off the leash when something big happens with Xnetters. I get sent into the field then. 
> You do something big. I get sent to it. I get us both out. All three of us, if you insist. 
"You know," she said, "I've been thinking about that 'no disclosure' thing Children of Light made me sign. That's their name, by the way. Like a vow of silence about them. They seemed pretty serious about it." 
Dear God, I thought, don't let her chicken out. Don't, don't. 
"So, we won't mention them. Just never use their name." 
She stood a minute, mute, and then her eyes grew determined. "No, I've got a better idea. I like you. And I think more single women ought to know about adoption. So you know what? I think I'll use their name all over the damned place. I paid what they asked, and for that I ought to be able to do what I want. What are they going to do? Come and steal Kevin back?" 
Then she sighed and stared at me. "Maybe, though, you could run through again how exactly we fit into this movie." 
I liked to tell the story to people, just to get their reaction. There are always moments of doubt in the film-making pro­cess when you wonder if the audience for your picture is going to consist entirely of your immediate family, your backers, and your creditors. 
“Come on! You can’t possibly think this is a good idea!” Checker called from over by his computers. 
Rio ignored him. “You think this is a viable plan?” he asked, handing me the phone. 
“It’s what we’ve got,” I said. 
“These are dangerous people.” 
“And since when do you care about that?” 
He raised his eyebrows. “I attach somewhat greater value to your well-being than to my own.” 
Right. He attached more value to pretty much anyone else’s well-being than he did to his own. We were all works of God, I thought. I wondered if he viewed us like a security guard with no appreciation for art might view the...  with safeguarding—bits of paper and wood and canvas mushed together with some oily and plasticky stuff that someone else told him were worth protecting at any cost. 
“Are you going to try to stop me, then?” 
“No. You are quite capable of looking after yourself.” 
I blinked. He did still trust my skills, then—at least against anyone who wasn’t Pithica. The sense of disgruntlement I hadn’t even realized I’d been feeling against Rio faded somewhat. 
<Shad> Hey guys, I'm back. Palaver? 
They pinged in and in a few seconds I could start typing again. 
<Shad> Got a lawyer. 
<ferret> Great ! 
<callmecheese> Huzzah! 
<DoDec> Which one did you get? ...  Plus she recruited a whole legal team . 
<ferret> Awesome! ...  that's where she lives. 
<DoDec> We should start a defense fund. 
We're talking big bucks. Even if the lawyer's pro bono, there's filing fees and shit. Adds up fast. 
<Kadabra> Paypal okay? DM me your deets and we'll get it rolling. 
<ferret> Unless there's one already started. 
<Gargle> That's what I wondered. I found this site. Are you working with them, Shad? 
The link took me to a website for something called “The Sol- idarity Committee for the Minneapolis Nine.” It looked a lot like sites used by other local activist groups. I did a Whois search and saw that the site owner’s identity was public - address, phone number, the works. Another quick search told me he was a kid who had become a full-time organizer, helping progressive causes around the Twin Cities by building websites and running social media campaigns. But duh, he wasn’t even smart enough to use a proxy domain. 
But now the man with the frogman fantasy was bidding him a good night and releasing him from the secondary screening area. His suitcases stood alone by the baggage carousel. When he picked them up, he saw that they had been opened and then inexpertly closed. Some of his clothes stuck out from around the edges. 
At home, he saw that all the fake "pre-Colombian" statues had been broken, and that his white cotton Mexican shirt -- folded and fresh from his laundry-lady -- had a boot-print in the middle of it. His clothes no longer smelled of Mexico. Now they smelled of airports and machine oil. 
The mailman had...  off at his place that day, but he couldn't even begin to confront it. All he could think of, as the sun rose over the Mission, turning the Victorian houses they called "painted ladies" vivid colors, was what it meant to be googled. 
He wasn't going to sleep. No way . He needed to talk about this. And there was only one person who he could talk to, and luckily, she was usually awake around now. 
She clicked off the phone and looked up with startled eyes. "It was somebody who said they worked for Children of Light. She wanted to know if you'd contacted me." Her face collapsed. "You. She asked me specifically about you . By name. How did—?" 
"I have no idea." My hands were growing cold. Had Carly told them about me? Why would she do that? "Anyway, you handled it okay." 
Which made me wonder. If Children of Light was such a perfect organization, why was Paula so frightened she immediately felt compelled to lie, to swear she hadn't broken their rules? 
"Right." Her composure was slowly coming back. "Look, now that I think about it, why should they care? It doesn't make any sense. They got their money." She turned to me. "Let me have that release." 
She seized the paper and endorsed it with a flourish. 
My pulse was still in overdrive, but I hugged her, then signaled the crew that shooting was over for the day. 
"Okay, everybody. Time to wrap." 
The gang immediately began striking the lights and rolling up electrical cords. They would take the equipment back downtown and deliver the film to the lab, while I would head home. It had been a long day and lots of thinking was needed. Besides, it was starting to rain, a dismal spatter against Paula's grimy windows, as the gray spring afternoon had begun darkening toward sullen evening. 
I ended up IMing with Ange for quite a while that night. She was sympathetic about everything and told me she'd help me with my papers if I wanted to meet her after school the next night. I knew where her school was -- she went to the same school as Van -- and it was all the way over in the East Bay, where I hadn't visited since the bombs went. 
I was really excited at the prospect of seeing her again. Every night since the party, I'd gone to bed thinking of two things: the sight of the crowd charging the police lines and the feeling of the side of her breast under her shirt as we leaned against the pillar. She was amazing. I'd never been with a girl as...aggressive as her before. It had always been me putting the moves on and them pushing me away. I got the feeling that Ange was as much of a horn-dog as I was. It was a tantalizing notion. 
I slept soundly that night, with exciting dreams of me and Ange and what we might do if we found ourselves in a secluded spot somewhere. 
The next day, I set out to work on my papers. San Francisco is a good place to write about. History? Sure, it's there, from the Gold Rush to the WWII shipyards, the Japanese internment camps, the invention of the PC. Physics? The Exploratorium has the coolest...  to. I took a perverse satisfaction in the exhibits on soil liquefaction during big quakes. English? Jack London, Beat Poets, science fiction writers like Pat Murphy and Rudy Rucker. Social studies? The Free Speech Movement, Cesar Chavez, gay rights, feminism, anti-war movement... 
Van refilled their glasses, upending the wine bottle to get the last few drops out. 
The raised their glasses. “To the world,” Felix said. “To humanity.” He thought hard. “To rebuilding.” 
“To anything,” Van said. 
“To anything,” Felix said. “To everything.” 
“To everything,” Rosa said. 
They drank. The next day, they started to rebuild. And months later, they started over again, when disagreements drove apart the fragile little group they’d pulled together. And a year after that, they started over again. And five years later, they started again. 
Felix dug ditches and salvaged cans and buried the dead. He planted and harvested. He fixed some cars and learned to make biodiesel. Finally he fetched up in a data-center for a little government—little governments came and went, but this one was smart enough to want to keep records and needed someone to keep everything running, and Van went with him. 
They spent a lot of time in chat rooms and sometimes they happened upon old friends from the strange time they’d spent running the Distributed Republic of Cyberspace, geeks who insisted on calling him PM, though no one in the real world ever called him that anymore. 
“Um, Robbie? An uplifted reef tried to kill me.” 
“But before the reef attacked you.” Robbie didn’t like thinking of the reef attacking her, the panic when he realized that she wasn’t a mere human shell, but a human. 
“Before the reef attacked me, it was fine.” 
“Do you dive much?” 
“First time,” she said. “I downloaded the certification before leaving the noosphere along with a bunch of stored dives on these sites.” 
“Oh, you shouldn’t have done that!” Robbie said. “The thrill of discovery is so important.” 
“I’d rather be safe than surprised,” she said. “I’ve had enough surprises in my life lately.” 
Robbie waited patiently for her to elaborate on this, but she didn’t seem inclined to do so. 
“So you’re all alone out here?” 
“I have the net,” he said, a little defensively. He wasn’t some kind of hermit. 
“Yeah, I guess that’s right,” she said. “I wonder if the reef is somewhere out there.” 
“About half a mile to starboard,” he said. 
She laughed. “No, I meant out there on the net. They must be online by now, right? They just woke up, so they’re probably doing all the noob stuff, flaming and downloading warez and so on.” 
“Such as?” 
“Um, maybe we shouldn’t do this over the phone.” 
She heaved a sigh. “How very dramatic. Well, if you...  team is meeting, I can give you five min- utes.” She gave me an address on Hennepin, and when I finally got the phone working and hiked over to Uptown I discovered who- ever chose the location for the meeting must have had a sense of humor. The cafe’s name was in big flickering neon letters over the door:...  my bike outside, stomped off some of the cruddy snow from my boots, and went in, finding a group of eight people clus- tered around laptops...  one were young and looked like preppy college students. The other one was old, but I almost didn’t...  hair was pinned up in a tidy twist at the back of her head and instead of a dirty cardigan, she wore a fancy-looking suit and a string of pearls. 
“Everyone, this is Zen, who brought this case to our atten- tion.” I waved at the preppies as she pushed herself to her feet, 
wincing. She hobbled to a table in a corner. “What are your ques- tions?” 
“Did our—we were trying to catch the Lancer! Put him and his men behind bars. Contain the proof. Do you have any idea what you’ve done here?” 
Wow, she was really pissed. “I rescued the woman I’m working for,” I said. “I’d call that a win.” 
Her face twisted in contempt. “You’re a shortsighted idiot. And you’re under arrest.” 
“What for?” 
“Interfering in a federal investigation.” 
“Because I dug out your tracker?” I said. “Do you really want to try me in a court for that?” 
“Who says this would ever see a courtroom?” 
Well, it wouldn’t because I wouldn’t let it, but still, that assumption from her was just a little bit terrifying. “Your bosses, then. You really want make a report saying you had me, tried to strongarm me into playing things your way, and then promptly lost me? I wouldn’t want to look that dumb if I were you.” 
Her lip twitched. I really think she wanted to punch me. Or, well, arrest me. 
I adjusted my grip on the AK. Just in case. 
“Besides, I did save your partner’s life,” I said. 
And then what? Best case scenario was that I beat up his goons every time they came after me and eventually got a chance to shoot the man himself. Worst case scenario... 
Worst case scenario was also the most likely scenario: he wasn’t going to underestimate me this time. Worst case scenario was that he nabbed me and then still went after Martinez and Halliday without anyone being able to stop him. After all, the NSA hadn’t been able to find him, either. 
A stray thought flickered through my brain, and I stopped breathing. Regardless of what happened to me, I could make sure the Lancer got brought down. I could make sure he’d never come after anyone again. I could make absolutely sure the DHS caught up with him, took him by surprise, and dropped the hammer on his fucking head. 
It would mean I’d have to call Arthur and ask him for help—not just for backup, but help. And it would mean I’d have to willingly fuck myself over even more than I’d planned to. 
I laughed hollowly. I wasn’t sure which of those things I dreaded more. 
“Thank Christ,” I grumbled. “See? I told you so. It pays to be prepared.” 
“Stop gloating.” 
“Fine. What about Halliday?” 
“I reached her. Told her to lie low. She’s going to her friend’s, Dr. Martinez’s—says she’s safe.” 
“Good.” Well, unless Dr. Martinez was the one responsible for all this, I reminded myself. Fuck. I pushed my fingers against my throbbing temples. The violence was escalating so quickly...“Why wouldn’t they have just killed Halliday in the first place?” 
Arthur flinched. “From what you said about deciphering the math, maybe they knew they might need her. ’Sides, the authorities would investigate a murder. They must’ve figured intimidation would work better.” 
“And if they kill us, it doesn’t connect back to Halliday if no one knows about the proof, because there are a thousand other good reasons people might want one of us dead. Plus maybe killing us intimidates her more,” I said, thinking aloud. A ploy like that could have worked out very well for them, if they hadn’t failed at the killing-us part. “How did they even know she talked to us?” 
“I’m sorry,” said the little nurse, “but Dr. Quelton has given strict orders—” 
“Er—yes, quite so!” he interrupted suavely. “I shan’t stop a minute.” 
He came nearer, but the nurse drew back and stood with her back against the door. 
“Dr. Quelton has given strict orders—” she repeated. 
“No more of that, please!” he said with a frown. “I’m going to see Mrs. Quelton for a moment. Stand aside, please!” 
He did not raise his voice, but the quality of it was oddly changed. Lexy felt a thrill of pleasure in its cool assurance and authority. Perhaps he objected very much to “making a row,” but what a glorious row he could make if he chose! If he would only once face Dr. Quelton like this! 
“Stand aside, if you please!” he repeated, and the poor little nurse, very much flustered, did so. 
“I’m afraid Dr. Quelton will be—” she began, but Captain Grey had already entered the room. 
The nurse followed him, closing the door after her. Lexy opened it at once and went in after them. She caught a glimpse of the young man and the nurse vanishing through one of the long windows that led out to the balcony. For a moment she hesitated, looking about her at the big, dim room. The dark shades were pulled down, and not a trace of the spring’s brightness entered here. 
I physically shook him. “Arthur! We have to find him, now! You know, so Dawna knows, and Pithica’s coming after him!” We might be too late already. 
Arthur shook his head again, adamantly. “She wouldn’t hurt him. She was just interested.” 
“No! She would definitely hurt him! She lied to you, remember? About Rio? About not hurting me?” 
His face clouded. “Yeah.” 
“And it made you doubt her motives, right? Remember?” 
“Yeah...” 
Thank goodness Dawna hadn’t had another crack at him after undoing her own work. He would have been a Pithica-loving robot. “Arthur, listen to me. You don’t have to believe me, okay? But you do have to go see Checker, now. In person.” 
He frowned down at me. “You feeling better enough for me to leave for a while?” 
Oh, Jesus, did I ever. “Yes! I promise! Now go, right now!” 
He shrugged me off. “Don’t know what you’re so hyper about, but okay. I am kind of worried I can’t reach him.” He grabbed his coat off a chair. “And I can get that flash drive back off him, too.” 
People didn’t make affectionate gestures toward me. I didn’t know how to parse one. Didn’t know what I was supposed to do in response. 
I sat and waited, trying to mull it over, but my brain stalled out against the swamp of depression and self-pity. I finished the cider instead of thinking; it was lukewarm now but still spicy-sweet, the whiskey strong and sharp. 
Checker came back after a few minutes, balancing a tray with steaming soup bowls. He...  to sit next to me again, leaning forward to arrange the food. “Here. You should eat something. It’s good, I promise.” 
“You kissed me,” I said. I wasn’t sure why I said it, except he’d confused me, and I was too drained, too empty, to try to translate social cues the way I was probably supposed to. 
“Sorry?” He looked up, and I could almost see his thoughts rewind. “Oh! I wasn’t—sorry. I didn’t mean—not that I don’t find you attractive, of course, but I wasn’t trying to—” 
“No, it’s okay,” I assured him. “Wait. Attractive?” 
He looked befuddled. “Well, yes.” 
“What’s your problem?” 
“Nothing, little grasshopper.” Jason punched his shoulder. 
“Ow. It’s just you’re not, you know, all serenity and shit. No offense.” 
“Don’t pay attention to him,” Ian said. “He was raised by wolves.” 
“What is this place, anyway?” I asked. “Is it safe to meet here?” 
“I happen to know a guy who recently bought it,” said Jason (who I’d always known as Gargle). “He plans to convert it into a community makerspace. He didn’t mind us borrowing it for an evening of trouble-making.” He tugged at the nearest piece of tent fabric. “This stuff? It blocks radio waves and cell signals. Portable security for sensitive communications. We’re demoing it at the security conference.” 
“Cool. So basically we’re in a big Faraday cage?” 
“Exactly.” 
It made me feel weirdly proud. I knew about Faraday cages because I made my backpack into one using layers of duct tape and foil. It’s a good way to avoid electromagnetic pulses frying your electronics. Better yet, it keeps cell phone signals blocked when you need to avoid being monitored. 
“But I should have known,” said Halliday. “This is my world. I should know how it works. I could have talked to Xiaohu, or any other of my friends who consult occasionally. It was too easy to listen to the stories that scared me.” 
“Well, there are a lot of them,” I said. “The NSA is scary.” 
“Not helping, Russell,” said Arthur. 
“Why not? I think you acted perfectly reasonably,” I told Halliday. “I’d recommend hiring me any day over going to the NSA.” 
She fixed me with a wry look. “Do not take this the wrong way, Miss Russell, but your approval of my life choices is not the most comforting of notions.” 
Right. 
“You made a mistake,” Arthur said bracingly, putting a hand on her shoulder. “Humans do that. Okay? Cut yourself a break. Now eat something. Please.” 
She finally obeyed, sipping delicately at a spoonful of stew broth. “I understand what you’re saying, but to be perfectly honest with you both—I’m not sure I deserve this deal we have. I handled this wrong from the start.” 
“You can have your crisis of confidence after we get your proof done,” I said. I spooned up my last bite of stew and pushed away the empty dishes to pick up her latest papers, the ones she and Zhang had been scribbling on during his visit today. “You’re close on this, but you’re going in circles. Come on, the whole point of the graph theory lemma was so clearly to give you a reducing function for f-bar.” 
As Rebecca rose, the tears still trembling on her lashes, he looked at her suddenly as with new vision. 
"Good-by!" he said, taking her slim brown hands in his, adding, as if he saw her for the first time, "Why, little Rose-Red-Snow-White is making way for a new girl! Burning the midnight oil and doing four years' work in three is supposed to dull the eye and blanch the cheek, yet Rebecca's eyes are bright and she has a rosy color! Her long braids are looped one on the other so that they make a black letter U behind, and they are tied with grand bows at the top! She is so tall that she reaches almost to my shoulder. This will never do in the world! How will Mr. Aladdin get on without his comforting little friend! He doesn't like grown-up young ladies in long trains and wonderful fine clothes; they frighten and bore him!" 
"Oh, Mr. Aladdin!" cried Rebecca eagerly, taking his jest quite seriously; "I am not fifteen yet, and it will be three years before I'm a young lady; please don't give me up until you have to!" 
"We have enough on you now to put you away for a very long time, Marcus. Your possession of these articles --" she gestured at all my little gizmos -- "and the data we recovered from your phone and memory sticks, as well as the subversive material we'd no doubt find if we raided your house and took your computer. It's enough to put you away until you're an old man. Do you understand that?" 
I didn't believe it for a second. There's no way a judge would say that all this stuff constituted any kind of real crime. It was free speech, it was technological tinkering. It wasn't a crime. 
But who said that these people would ever put me in front of a judge. 
"We know where you live, we know who your friends are. We know how you operate and how you think." 
It dawned on me then. They were about to let me go. The room seemed to brighten. I heard myself breathing, short little breaths. 
"We just want to know one thing: what was the delivery mechanism for the bombs on the bridge?" 
I stopped breathing. The room darkened again. 
“You really think that?” 
Lucy sighed a put-upon, sophisticated, American sigh. “Look at it this way. Most of the world is living on like a dollar a day. I spend five dollars every day on a frappuccino. Some days, I get two! Dad sends mom three thousand a month in child-support—that’s a hundred bucks a day. So if a day’s money here is a hundred...  my frappuccino is worth like five hundred dollars . And I buy two or three every day. 
“And we’re not rich! There’s craploads of rich people who wouldn’t think twice about spending five...  you think a hotdog and a Coke go for on the space station? A thousand bucks! 
“So that’s what I think is going on. There’s someone out there, some Saudi or Japanese guy or Russian mafia kid who’s so rich that this is just chump change for him, and he’s paying us to mess around with some other rich person. To them,...  a day to craft—I mean, sew—t-shirts. What’s a couple hundred bucks to...  about it. It made a kind of sense. She’d been on hols in Bratislava where they got a posh hotel room for ten quid—less than she was spending every day on sweeties and fizzy drinks. 
Robbie gave him the reef’s email address. 
Start there. If there was ever an AI that needed a reason to go on living, it’s that one. And this one, too. He sent it Kate’s address. Another one in desperate need of help. 
An instant later, Daneel was back. 
“These aren’t AIs! One’s a human, the other’s a, a—” 
Uplifted coral reef . 
“That.” 
So what’s your point? 
“Asimovism is for robots, Robbie.” 
Sorry, I just don’t see the difference anymore. 
On a chunk of supercooled rock beyond Pluto, he got an IM from a familiar address. 
“Get off my rock,” it said. 
“I know you,” Robbie said. “I totally know you. Where do I know you from?” 
“I’m sure I don’t know.” 
And then he had it. 
“You’re the one. With the reef. You’re the one who—” The voice was the same, cold and distant. 
“It wasn’t me,” the voice said. It was anything but cold now. Panicked was more like it. 
Robbie had the reef on speed-dial. There were bits of it everywhere in the Noosphere. It liked to colonize. 
“I found him.” It was all Robbie needed to say. He skipped to Saturn’s rings, but the upload took long enough that he got to watch the coral arrive and grimly begin an argument with its creator—an argument that involved blasting the substrate one chunk at a time. 
“Thanks. And thanks for not saying ‘I told you so’ even though you did. Did you have fun in Sibley County?” 
“Yeah. It was great. I feel much better now.” 
“I’m glad. Look, I have to go teach, but — ” 
“That’s fine. I need to get some homework done.” 
She hesitated for a moment, probably wondering what “home- work” was code for, because we both knew I wasn’t about to waste time on algebra at a time like this. “Well, don’t work too hard.” 
That was her code for “don’t do anything that will get you arrested or seriously hurt.” 
“You too. See you later.” 
I asked Nikko to drop me off a couple of blocks from home. I waved as I rode off, and they waved, too, and I realized it didn’t bother me anymore that they were being so adorbs together. 
I made it home without spotting anyone lying in wait and made...  to work, using the time it took the kettle to boil to inspect my bedroom to make sure nobody had been snooping in there. Then I took the...  butter sandwiches into my room to catch up, using the laptop hidden under the floorboards to connect with the Group. 
<ferret> Hey, I'm heading to Minneapolis for a few days. How about a meet-up? 
<Kadabra> When will you be there, ferret? 
<ferret> I was scheduled on a Sunday flight, 
but I can come sooner. 
<Kadabra> I can be there. 
<inky> I wish - too far from Melbourne. 
<gargle> Count me in. 
<DoDec> Are you going to that cyberlaw thing? 
<ferret> Yep. Speaking on Tuesday. 
<callmecheese> I'm signed up! Lemme see if I can change my tickets. 
<Kadabra> There's a great brewpub near the conference site. Dinner on Tuesday? 
<ferret> Wait wait wait, what about Shad's brother? 
<Falstaff> Yep, we need to figure that shit out . 
<Gargle> Shad, does a meet-up sound good? 
I can fix us up with a safe place to get together . 
I was frozen for a minute, unsure how to respond. 
The day was catching up with me. It was nearly four in the morning, and my brain was feeling fuzzy. The Group had meet- ups regularly. Someone would say “hey, I’m going to be in Bangkok next week, anybody want to get together?” and people would figure out where to meet and hang out for a while. Or there’d be a hackathon or an SF fan convention or a gaming event - something that a handful of members might be going to and they’d work out a plan to meet somewhere. 
"Yeah," I said. "Trust." 
I retreated some distance as she ran the key-generator, listening to her typing and mousing to create randomness, listening to the crash of the surf, listening to the party noises from over where the beer was. 
She stepped out of the cave, carrying the laptop. On it, in huge white luminous letters, were her public key and her fingerprint and email address. She held the screen up beside her face and waited while I got my phone out. 
"Cheese," she said. I snapped her pic and dropped the camera back in my pocket. She wandered off to the revelers and let them each get pics of her and the screen. It was festive. Fun. She really had a lot of charisma -- you didn't want to laugh at her, you just wanted to laugh with her. And hell, it was funny! We were declaring a secret war on the secret police. Who the hell did we think we were? 
So it went, through the next hour or so, everyone taking pictures and making keys. I got to meet everyone there. I knew a lot of them -- some were my invitees -- and the others were friends of my pals or my pals' pals. We should all be buddies. We were, by the time the night was out. They were all good people. 
“I promise, rotten,” he said. 
“I love you, Daddy,” she said in her most syrupy voice. He gave her a squeeze on the shoulder and a slap on the butt. 
He opened the door again. Benny was there, imperturbable. Unlike the UNATS robots, he was odorless, and perfectly silent. 
“I’m going to go to the toilet and then make...  
“I would be happy to assist in any way possible.” 
“I can wipe myself, thanks,” Arturo said. He washed his face twice and tried to rinse away the flavor left behind by whatever had shat in his mouth while he was unconscious. There was a splayed toothbrush in a glass by the sink, and if it was his wife’s—and whose else could it be?—it wouldn’t be the first time he’d shared a toothbrush with her. But he couldn’t bring himself to do it. Instead, he misted some dentifrice onto his fingertip and rubbed his teeth a little. 
There was a hairbrush by the sink, too, with short mousy hairs caught in it. Some of them were grey, but they were still familiar enough. He had to stop himself from smelling the hairbrush. 
“I’ll tell you all about that later,” said Lexy; “but now you’ve got to tell me things. How did you ever meet Caroline? How in the world did she manage to write to you?” 
“Well, you see, I met her about a year ago, on board the Ormond. She and her parents were...  officer, you know. Her mother and father were seasick most of the time, so we had a chance to—to talk to each other; and, you see—” 
“Yes, I see!” said Lexy gently. 
“One of the servants—a girl called Annie—used to post Caroline’s letters for her, and I used to write to her in care of Annie’s mother. We never had a chance to meet again, after that trip. I wanted to come to the house and see her people, but she said it wasn’t any use; and from what I saw of them on the Ormond I dare say she was right. I wouldn’t have suited them. I haven’t any money, you know—nothing but my pay; but it was enough for us to live on. Other fellows manage!” 
He was silent for a moment. 
“After all,” he said, “I’m not a beggar. I can hold my own pretty well in the world, and I could look after a wife.” 
"Because I'd had enough dinner, and I thought if I saved these, it would make the Simpsons' party better," stammered Rebecca, who hated to be scolded and examined before company. 
"They were your own, Rebecca," interposed aunt Jane, "and if you chose to save them to give away, it is all right. We ought never to let this day pass without giving our neighbors something to be thankful for, instead of taking all the time to think of our own mercies." 
The Burnham sisters nodded approvingly as Rebecca went out, and remarked that they had never seen a child grow and improve so fast in so short a time. 
"There's plenty of room left for more improvement, as you'd know if she lived in the same house with you," answered Miranda. "She's into every namable thing in the neighborhood, an' not only into it, but generally at the head an' front of it, especially when it's mischief. Of all the foolishness I ever heard of, that lamp beats everything; it's just like those Simpsons, but I didn't suppose the children had brains enough to sell anything." 
“I do.” He gave my shoulder a final squeeze and then stood. “Talk soon, right?” 
A sort of tight feeling was growing through my chest and throat, the same type of squeezing discomfort I got in certain death situations. Except it was kind of a good feeling, which made no sense at all. “Yeah, okay,” I said. 
“Give you a buzz tomorrow,” said Arthur, and let himself out. 
I stayed sitting on the couch, staring at the floor and feeling very strange. 
I wasn’t used to having friends. Friends meant obligations, and complications, and effort- And people who checked in on me, another part of my brain pointed out. And had my back. And could watch for signs of psychic brainwashing. 
Huh. 
My phone beeped. 
It was a text message from Checker, newly arrived back in LA. The strange, fizzy feeling in my chest intensified. 
I stared at the messages. The invitation felt surreal, as if I were watching someone else’s life: somebody who lived in society, somebody who did the whole “human interaction” thing, somebody who got text messages that weren’t either about work or death threats. 
Push it away, Ray tells himself. It's a mind game, one he thought he had left behind. 
Or had he run away from it? Had he embraced the CIU because it promised to put him on an interminable series of starship cruises, to eject him into the deepness of space as far from New Mes as human habitation ranged? 
Did Ialdabaoth create the entire universe, or just the earth? That was a point Holcomb had never made quite clear enough. 
So he stops thinking about New Mes and sheds and metaphysics. He can do that, except what's left to him— the dead kid-is somehow worse. 
He's been at it for about three hours, and despite all the events he has jammed into this day, it's still early. Just after midnight Greenwich according to the ship's chron. He's been up since way too early, and he's aware that he should be getting tired any time now, should probably just plan on falling over with his fatigue and considering himself lucky if he doesn't fall so hard he breaks his face. But in the quiet of the shop when his mind isn't actively engaged, he's developed an agitating tendency to get all shaky. He has to concentrate on the keypad to keep his fingers from rattling off strings of incoherent letters and digits. 
“But I’m so awfully sorry for you!” 
“It was pretty hard, at first,” he said; “but—well, you see, I’ve thought a bit about it, and after all I’m glad we didn’t get married.” 
“Oh!” cried Lexy, profoundly shocked. “But that’s—” 
“Because I—you see, she didn’t—well, I don’t think she really liked me very much.” 
Lexy was astounded. 
“Fact!” said he. “What she wanted was romance, and all that sort of thing. She wanted to get away from home, and I was the only chance she had; so there you are!” 
“That wasn’t very fair to you!” 
“I don’t blame her,” he said thoughtfully. “We were both—but what’s the sense of talking about all that? The thing is to find her!” 
Lexy agreed to that promptly. 
“Now I’ll tell you everything that’s happened,” she said. 
He listened to her with alert attention. He interrupted her often to ask questions, but they were always questions that she could answer. He wanted all the facts, and what Lexy told him he unquestioningly accepted as fact. When she said she had seen Caroline at the doctor’s house, he believed her. He didn’t suggest that her eyes might have deceived her. He trusted her—not only her good intentions, but her good sense. 
Lexy followed her, still flushed, and very reluctant. She wished she could afford to refuse that money. 
“But I’ve earned it,” she thought; “and goodness knows I’ll need it!” 
Mrs. Enderby sat down at her desk and took out her check book. While she wrote, Lexy looked out of the window. 
“The amount due to you, including to-day, is thirty-two dollars,” said Mrs. Enderby. “Here is a check for it.” 
“Thank you,” said Lexy. 
“One minute more! Here, my child, is another check.” 
Lexy stared at it, amazed. It was for one hundred dollars. 
“But, Mrs. Enderby, I can’t—” 
“You will please take it and say nothing more. I give you this because I shall give you no reference. I shall answer no inquiries about you. You understand?” 
“But I don’t want—” 
Mrs. Enderby pushed back her chair, and rose. She crossed the room to Lexy, put both hands on the girl’s shoulders, and then did something far more astonishing than the gift of the check. She kissed Lexy on the forehead. 
“Good-by, and God bless you, little honest one!” she said, with a smile. “I think we shall not see each other again, but I shall sometimes remember you. Go, now, and bear in mind that you can always trust Miss Craigie. She is an imbecile, but she can be trusted. Adieu! ” 
"Sixty feet," Lee-Daniel translated for the surveyors and the antennamen, who were products of the American educational system and hence impedance-mismatched with the entire metric-speaking world. 
"Sixty feet," Meatloaf said. "You'll know you've gotten too close if you find yourself at the bottom of a ten-foot pit with two broken legs. Don't go near the strategic areas, OK?" 
Elaine stood up and began to pace the map's length. She unsnapped a laserpointer from her gearpig bandolier and began to hit each strategic area in turn. 
"All the high-ground, right?" 
Meatloaf nodded. 
"The perimeter, too, right?" 
He nodded again. 
Elaine gave Lee-Daniel a look, then ran the dot of her pointer over each of the strategic areas again. Some of the surveyors groaned and whispered to the antennamen and the switchgirls. 
Lee-Daniel cleared his throat. "Meatloaf," he said, "all respect, but well, this won't work. Our radios operate on line-of-sight. If we can see it, we can shoot it at half a gigabit a second -- slower if there are a lot of leaves and stuff in the way. If we can't see it, we can't shoot it. Zero bits per second. We need high-ground, we need perimeter, otherwise we're just wasting your time." 
Dawna was gazing at me, fearless and searching, Rio prone and forgotten at her feet. I had thought she had seen through me before, felt transparent and naked in front of her, but that was nothing compared to what I saw in her eyes now; she stripped me to the atoms, tearing every last shred of my person from its moorings to be scrutinized and catalogued—she saw the parts of me I didn’t know existed, read me like she had a detailed manual of my soul, tore me apart and undid me until I had no sense of self anymore. 
Until this instant, I realized, I had only had an inkling of what her powers could do—with the full weight of her focus drilling into me, driving into the core of my being, I didn’t have the slightest chance against her. Probability zero. She had won. 
“I see now,” she whispered, stepping toward me, ignoring the gun I still had pointed at her. “It all makes sense. I should have looked more closely before. But why would I have thought...” She drew closer, less than a meter from me now, and narrowed her eyes slightly. I could see her mind racing behind them, putting together the clues, discovering—finding all the right questions and slotting in the answers just as quickly. 
Like none of that. It was more. It was something I'd never felt before. I wanted to eat her whole, devour her. 
Up until now, she'd been the sexual one in our relationship. I'd let her set and control the pace. It was amazingly erotic to have her grab me and take off my shirt, drag my face to hers. 
But tonight I couldn't hold back. I wouldn't hold back. 
The door clicked shut and I reached for the hem of her t-shirt and yanked, barely giving her time to lift her arms as I pulled it over her head. I tore my own shirt over my head, listening to the cotton crackle as the stitches came loose. 
Her eyes were shining, her mouth open, her breathing fast and shallow. Mine was too, my breath and my heart and my blood all roaring in my ears. 
I took off the rest of our clothes with equal zest, throwing them into the piles of dirty and clean laundry on the floor. There were books and papers all over the bed and I swept them aside. We landed on the unmade bedclothes a second later, arms around one another, squeezing like we would pull ourselves right through one another. She moaned into my mouth and I made the sound back, and I felt her voice buzz in my vocal chords, a feeling more intimate than anything I'd ever felt before. 
"So that's when I threw in the towel. I bought a Dremel tool. Then a hot glue gun. Then a CNC lathe. Then a mill. Then I got serious." 
"Well, it seems to have worked out for you." The VC leaned over the display cabinet. She saw his reflection in the clear top. His eyes were wide with genuine admiration. OK, OK, she thought. OK, you get another five minutes, Udhay Gonzales. 
She opened the lid and made fortune-teller passes over her pieces with her hands. "Pick them up, that's what they're for." 
He...  were individual slices from the skins of old Nokia phones -- back when it was just Nokia, not Marvel Comics Mobile -- each articulated on its own little sprig of memory wire. The gills were scuffed iPod backings, the logos just recognizable under the fog of scratches. The eyes bore HP and Playstation logos, respectively, and the lips were made from inner-tube strips that bore the smallest recognizable logomarks. As he lifted it, it settled into his hand, arching back to find his thumb and palm, nestling in there. 
There were a couple dozen encrypted messages from people in the web of trust. I skimmed them -- links to videos and pics of new abuses from the DHS, horror stories about near-escapes, rants about stuff I'd blogged. The usual. 
Then I came to one that was only encrypted to my public key. That meant that no one else could read it, but I had no idea who had written it. It said it came from Masha, which could either be a handle or a name -- I couldn't tell which. 
> M1k3y. 
> You don't know me, but I know you. 
> I was arrested the day that the bridge blew. They questioned me. They decided I was innocent. They offered me a job: help them hunt down the terrorists who'd killed my neighbors. 
> It sounded like a good deal at the time. Little did I realize that my actual job would turn out to be spying on kids who resented their city being turned into a police state. 
> I infiltrated Xnet on the day it launched. I am in your web of trust. If I wanted to spill my identity, I could send you email from an address you'd trust. Three addresses, actually. I'm totally inside your network as only another 17-year-old can be. Some of the email you've gotten has been carefully chosen misinformation from me and my handlers. 
"I brought a little Randall girl down on the stage from Maplewood to-day, mother. She's kin to the Sawyer girls an' is goin' to live with 'em," he said, as he sat down and began to whittle. "She's that Aurelia's child, the one that ran away with Susan Randall's son just before we come here to live." 
"How old a child?" 
"'Bout ten, or somewhere along there, an' small for her age; but land! she might be a hundred to hear her talk! She kep' me jumpin' tryin' to answer her! Of all the queer children I ever come across she's the queerest. She ain't no beauty—her face is all eyes; but if she ever grows up to them eyes an' fills out a little she'll make folks stare. Land, mother! I wish 't you could 'a' heard her talk." 
"I don't see what she had to talk about, a child like that, to a stranger," replied Mrs. Cobb. 
"Stranger or no stranger, 't wouldn't make no difference to her. She'd talk to a pump or a grind-stun; she'd talk to herself ruther 'n keep still." 
"What did she talk about?" 
"Blamed if I can repeat any of it. She kep' me so surprised I didn't have my wits about me. She had a little pink sunshade—it kind o' looked like a doll's amberill, 'n' she clung to it like a burr to a woolen stockin'. I advised her to open it up—the sun was so hot; but she said no, 't would fade, an' she tucked it under her dress. 'It's the dearest thing in life to me,' says she, 'but it's a dreadful care.' Them 's the very words, an' it's all the words I remember. 'It's the dearest thing in life to me, but it's an awful care!' "—here Mr. Cobb laughed aloud as he tipped his chair back against the side of the house. 
She began to feel impatient for Caroline’s return. 
“I’ll tell her when we’re alone,” she thought; “and she’ll have to explain—a little, anyhow.” 
Lexy wanted an explanation very much, because she was fond of Caroline, and very sorry for her. 
Mrs....  conservative type, with the most rigid ideas about the bringing up of a young girl, and her husband—Lexy had often wondered what Mr. Enderby had been before his marriage, for now he was nothing but a grave and dignified echo of his wife. Between them, they had educated Caroline in a disastrous fashion. She had never even been to school. She had had governesses at home, and when a male teacher came in, for music or painting lessons, Mrs. Enderby had always sat in the room with her child. Caroline never went out of the house alone. She was utterly cut off from the normal life of other girls. She was a gentle, lovely creature—a little unreal, Lexy had thought her, at first; and she, at first, had been afraid of Lexy. 
Mrs. Enderby had advertised for a secretary, and Lexy had answered the advertisement. Mrs. Enderby had wanted personal references, and Lexy had supplied them, some five or six, of the highest quality. Mrs. Enderby had investigated them with remarkable thoroughness, and had asked Lexy many questions. Indeed, it had taken ten days to satisfy her that Miss Moran was a fit person to come into her house, and Lexy had lived under her roof and under her eagle eye for a month before she was allowed to be alone with Caroline. After that first month, however, Mrs. Enderby had made up her mind that Lexy was to be trusted, and the thin pretext of “secretary” was dropped. 
I was pretty sure the crowd would be on my side if this guy tried anything. 
I don’t have a lot of keys on my keychain - just a couple of house keys and the one for my bike lock, along with the little pen- light - but I arranged what I had so that they stuck out between my knuckles. I’d read it was more effective to punch somebody in the face that way. 
He finally reached me and I felt my heart racing as he leaned close. “You know a girl named Zen?” Up close his face was a map of seams and fissures and his breath smelled like a dumpster. 
“Why do you want to know?” 
He grinned and I saw he was missing a lot of teeth. “Gotcha.” 
He leered like an evil jack-o-lantern and reached into his coat. I tightened my fist and imagined smashing my keys into his eyes. 
He held out a crumpled Pizza Hut flyer in his hand. “Go on, 
take it.” He sounded irritated and impatient. Like, why can’t you follow my simple instructions? Like he wasn’t too crazy about being in a hostile crowd of hipster college students. 
Okay, that could complicate matters. “I want to talk to my client,” I said. 
“Not a chance.” The DHS agent took out a pair of handcuffs. “I really won’t object to using these. Come with me. Now.” 
The rest of the agents had dispersed, the bomb squad inching forward first and sending in their robots in advance of the humans. My agent friend, proving she had a shred of humanity, took me to their on-site medical staff first. I watched like a hawk while the paramedics patched me up, and I checked the area mentally afterward. Fucking NSA and their fucking microchips. But apparently field EMTs weren’t qualified to implant tracking devices—that, or they just didn’t fancy doing it while I was awake. 
The agent put me in one of their SUVs along with several Feds who were geared to the teeth. I tried to demand to talk to my client again, and she slammed the door in my face. 
Fuck. 
Well, whatever was going to happen was going to happen. If I had to break out of federal custody again, I would. 
I should have cared a lot more about getting taken in, but I just didn’t have the energy. 
"Our Christmas presents, you mean," said Emma Jane. "The pillow-cases are from Mrs. Cobb, the rug from cousin Mary in North Riverboro, the scrap-basket from Living and Dick. We gave each other the bureau and cushion covers, and the screen is mine from Mr. Ladd." 
"Well, you were lucky when you met him! Gracious! I wish I could meet somebody like that. The way he keeps it up, too! It just hides your bed, doesn't it, and I always say that a bed takes the style off any room—specially when it's not made up; though you have an alcove, and it's the only one in the whole building. I don't see how you managed to get this good room when you're such new scholars," she finished discontentedly. 
"We shouldn't have, except that Ruth Berry had to go away suddenly on account of her father's death. This room was empty, and Miss Maxwell asked if we might have it," returned Emma Jane. 
"The great and only Max is more stiff and standoffish than ever this year," said Huldah. "I've simply given up trying to please her, for there's no justice in her; she is good to her favorites, but she doesn't pay the least attention to anybody else, except to make sarcastic speeches about things that are none of her business. I wanted to tell her yesterday it was her place to teach me Latin, not manners." 
Simon nudged me. “You’re always fooling around on the internet. Could you get blueprints of the building?” 
I frowned as if I was actually thinking about it. “It’s not that old. The city would have put it out for competitive bidding,” I said, totally lying. “The blueprints would probably be on a city server.” 
“You could hack in there?” 
“Probably.” Not really. 
“Sweet. And you could get the explosives from your uncle . . 
.” Simon said to Danny. 
Danny sat back on the ratty couch and gave Simon a twisted grin. “Dude, you’re serious.” 
“What do you think we’ve been talking about?” 
“What would be cooler?” Danny lit another cigarette. He liked gesturing with cigarettes. “Car bombs.” 
Simon nodded. “Like, fill up a car with explosives and park it outside — ” 
“No, like under cop cars. Remote controlled. Put a couple sticks of dynamite under the chassis, use a key fob to set 'em off. 
Do three or four of those, one right after the other, and every cop in the city would be having a panic attack.” 
I shoved the bottle violently back onto the messy counter and grabbed at the cabinet, tossing things out in a frenzy. 
Some time later I discovered I was lying on my couch, the world spinning lazily above me, wobbling in silly patterns and making me want to giggle. The math was no longer a smothering, choking mass, instead just pretty little numbers that had gotten dressed up in party outfits to parade around for me. 
I did giggle a little. 
The next time I woke up I felt a good deal less shiny and happy, and someone was pounding on the apartment door. I tried to cover my head with a pillow, but it was too small, and the pounding wouldn’t stop. I stumbled over and dragged the door open. 
“Go away,” I said to Arthur, half-falling out past him to crash into the opposite side of the hallway. I sat down hard on the floor. The wood of the baseboard was a funny texture. New discovery! I giggled. 
“Not a chance,” I heard someone say from above me, and then strong hands were under my arms, lifting me. “Up you get.” 
“Greedo will rise again,” Felix said. “I’ve got a 486 downstairs with over five years of uptime. It’s going to break my heart to reboot it.” 
“What the everlasting shit do you use a 486 for?” 
“Nothing. But who shuts down a machine with five years uptime? That’s like euthanizing your grandmother.” 
“I wanna eat,” Van said. 
“Tell you what,” Felix said. “We’ll get your box up, then mine, then I’ll take you to the Lakeview Lunch for breakfast pizzas and you can have the rest of the day off.” 
“You’re on,” Van said. “Man, you’re too good to us grunts. You should keep us in a pit and beat us like all the other bosses. It’s all we deserve.” 
“It’s your phone,” Van said. Felix extracted himself from the guts of the 486, which had refused to power up at all. He had cadged a spare power-supply from some guys who ran a spam operation and was trying to get it fitted. He let Van hand him the phone, which had fallen off his belt while he was twisting to get at the back of the machine. 
The line went dead. He tried to call back, but didn’t get anything—no ring nor voicemail. His phone finally timed out and said NETWORK ERROR. 
The tone in which the word was voiced gave it all the effect of having been shouted from the housetops. 
A dark ruffled head and two frightened eyes appeared above the dimity spread. 
"What are you layin' on your good bed in the daytime for, messin' up the feathers, and dirtyin' the pillers with your dusty boots?" 
Rebecca rose guiltily. There seemed no excuse to make. Her offense was beyond explanation or apology. 
"I'm sorry, aunt Mirandy—something came over me; I don't know what." 
"Well, if it comes over you very soon again we'll have to find out what 't is. Spread your bed up smooth this minute, for 'Bijah Flagg 's bringin' your trunk upstairs, and I wouldn't let him see such a cluttered-up room for anything; he'd tell it all over town." 
When Mr. Cobb had put up his horses that night he carried a kitchen chair to the side of his wife, who was sitting on the back porch. 
"I brought a little Randall girl down on the stage from Maplewood to-day, mother. She's kin to the Sawyer girls an' is goin' to live with 'em," he said, as he sat down and began to whittle. "She's that Aurelia's child, the one that ran away with Susan Randall's son just before we come here to live." 
He touched his right bicep; blood glistened on his fingertips. “Graze. Lucky, I guess.” His eyes flickered over the scene. Four bodies. Broken glass and dirt everywhere. “It had bars on it,” he whispered. 
I’m not going to lie: I like impressing people. Especially people who’ve just walked away from me in the street and told me they never want to speak to me again. 
“Yup,” I said. “I’m just that good.” 
“You’re bleeding,” Tresting managed, once he had found his voice again. 
“So I am,” I said. I have a hyper-awareness of my own body; all the math in the world won’t help me if I can’t match calculation with reality. I can make estimates about other people’s anatomies, but mine I know every detail of at any time, and I knew I’d sustained five shallow cuts on my face, neck, and hands, and that none of them were worth worrying about. “So are you,” I added. 
Tresting half-shrugged and kept his left hand pressed against the graze as he crunched across the glass-strewn floor to crouch by the nearest of the corpses. He reached out to place his fingers against the boy’s wrist. 
There were more rumbles and more tremors. Heads appeared at windows up and down the street. We all looked at the mushroom cloud in silence. 
Then the sirens started. 
I'd heard sirens like these before -- they test the civil defense sirens at noon on Tuesdays. But I'd only heard them go off unscheduled in old war movies and video games, the kind where someone is bombing someone else from above. Air raid sirens. The wooooooo sound made it all less real. 
"Report to shelters immediately." It was like the voice of God, coming from all places at once. There were speakers on some of the electric poles, something I'd never noticed before, and they'd all switched on at once. 
"Report to shelters immediately." Shelters? We looked at each other in confusion. What shelters? The cloud was rising steadily, spreading out. Was it nuclear? Were we breathing in our last breaths? 
The girl with the pink hair grabbed her friends and they tore ass downhill, back toward the BART station and the foot of the hills. 
Remember... 
Remember what? The thought slipped through my grasp, insubstantial as smoke. 
My breath wheezed in and out with too much force, my hands flexing and grasping against the floor. I clutched tighter into myself, curled up on my side. 
Where am I?...what am I? 
Sense returned in slow intervals. 
It was night, and the room was still. The math shimmered around me, a comforting background hum. Dawna Polk and her troops and her helicopter were all gone. 
So was Rio. 
Arthur’s face swam into focus above me. His expression was wrinkled with concern, though his eyes still weren’t quite focusing properly. Concussion. That’s right. 
What had Dawna done to me? 
“Russell?” Someone was talking to me. I couldn’t remember who. “Russell? Hey, Russell, you all right?” 
“Arthur,” I mumbled, his name coming back to me again even as some other thought slid away. 
“The very same. You hurt?” 
It took me a while to muddle out what he was asking. I had to concentrate, figure it out. “No.” Was that the right answer? 
She smiled fondly at him. "No, sweetheart, you're not going to get what you paid for it. All those things they told you when you put two mil into that place, like 'They're not making any more Manhattan' and 'Location location location'? It's lies." Her face got serious, sympathetic. "It's supposed to panic you and make you lose your head and spend more than you think something is worth. That goes on for a while and then everyone ends up with too much mortgage for not enough home, or for too much home for that matter, and then blooie, the bottom blows out of the market and everything falls down like a souffle." 
"You don't sugar-coat it, huh?" He'd come straight to her office from Ate's door, taking the subway rather than cabbing it or even renting a jetpack. He was on austerity measures, effective immediately. His brain seemed to have a pre-made list of cost-savers it had prepared behind his back, as though it knew this day would come. 
She shrugged. "I can, if you want me to. We can hem and haw about the money and so on and I can hold your hand through the seven stages of grieving. I do that a lot when the market goes soft. But you looked like the kind of guy who wants it straight. Should I start over? Or, you know, if you want, we can list you at two mil or even two point two, and I'll use that to prove that some other loft is a steal at 1.9. If you want." 
"Go on." 
"Once I'd isolated Freddy's sig, I was able to code a fairly comprehensive and flexible search of the surveillance net into the regular drone routine. With that in mind, I've also redirected the net to track his movements for the last four days." Ray waves at the screen and its cascade of jerky frame-by-frame animation. "What I've got is fairly conclusive footage of his movements before the estimated time of death, 
and footage reflecting his activities a few hours after. And a big gaping hole in the middle." 
"Aw, hell," Becker rumbles. 
"What I've also got is days and days of general tracking footage. This is where he was before and after— where, in fact, you're likely to find him at almost any time of the day, every day, except for the nightly batch transmission, when he lines up in the queue like all the other sturdy and respectable businessmen. The franchise is a...  High class, high price, exclusive tastes. The lap dances in the back room are cheaper than the drinks. It's also right off the main lift, giving its customers easy access to just about anywhere on the ship they might want to go at a moment's notice." 
"Yeah, likewise. Sit down, Mitch. Sit down, Sean. Sit down, Adele." They sat. "Ask your questions, Sean," he ordered. 
Sean found himself tongue-tied. He heaved a deep breath and closed his eyes for a moment. He thought about why he was here: not the reason he'd given his thesis advisor, but the real goddamn reason. He wanted to understand -- his father, himself. He wanted to reverse-engineer his father's childhood. He looked at Ethan, slack as Grampa had been whenever they'd visited. An inkling glimmered. "Does Ethan scare you, Grampa?" 
Adele tsk ed and scowled. 
"Do I scare you, Mitch?" Grampa said, to Sean's father. 
"Yes," Sean's father said. 
"Yes," Grampa said. "Next question." 
"Do you think that switching off is a sign of weakness?" Sean said, sneaking a glance at his father, seeing his grandfather's features echoed in his father's face. 
"Yes," his father said. 
"Of course," his grandfather said. 
"Then why?" Sean said. 
"You know why," Ethan said, his eyes glittering. 
They all swiveled to look at him. "Because the alternative is the purest shit," Ethan said, standing up, starting to pace, almost shouting to make himself heard over the din of the ward. "Because if you have to ask, you'll never understand. Because dessert is better than dinner, because the cherry on top is the best part of the sundae. Because strength is over-rated." 
"He was useful because he was so eager to prove that he was smarter than everyone else." 
"You needed him to edit your own data-streams?" 
Randy just looked at him calmly. Why would the Securitat need to change its own streams? Why couldn't they just arrest whomever they wanted on whatever pretext they wanted? Who'd be immune to -- Then he realized who'd be immune to the Securitat: the Securitat would be. 
"You used him to nail other Securitat officers?" 
Randy's blank look didn't change. 
Lawrence realized that he would never leave this building. Even if his body left, now he would be tied to it forever. He breathed. He tried for that oceanic quality of breath, the susurration of the blue silk ribbons inscribed with his worries. It wouldn't come. 
"Come along now," Randy said, and pulled him down the corridor to the main door. It hissed as it opened and behind it was an old Securitat man, legs crossed painfully. Weak bladder, Lawrence knew. 
"Here's the thing," Randy said. "The system isn't going to go away, no matter what we do. The Securitat's here forever. We've treated everyone like a criminal for too long now -- everyone's really a criminal now. If we dismantled tomorrow, there'd be chaos, bombings, murder sprees. We're not going anywhere." 
“After all, I don’t see why I have to sit here,” she thought. “I shouldn’t exactly break up the party if I went to bed.” 
And she was just about to close her book when Mrs. Quelton spoke. 
Dr. Quelton hastily rose and came over to her chair. 
“Then you must go to bed,” he said. “Come!” 
He helped her to rise, and she stood, supported by his arm, her face drawn and ghastly. 
Captain Grey came toward her, making a very poor attempt to smile. 
“Good night, Muriel!” he said, holding out his hand. 
She did not answer, or even look at him. Leaning on the doctor’s arm, she went out of the room, into the hall, and up the stairs. 
For a moment Captain Grey and Lexy were silent. Then— “Good God!” he cried suddenly. “I can’t stand this! I—” 
Lexy came nearer to him. 
“Don’t stand it!” she whispered. “Take her away! Can’t you see ? Take her away!” 
“How can I? Her husband—she doesn’t want to go.” 
“Make her! Oh, can’t you see? He’s giving her some horrible drug!” 
“You mustn’t be alarmed,” said Dr. Quelton’s voice from the hall. They both looked at him with a guilty start, but his blank eyes were staring past them, at nothing. “It is unfortunate,” he said. “The little excitement of this visit—” 
"Rebecca Randall!" exclaimed Emma Jane, "you're handsome as a picture!" 
"I?" laughed Rebecca "Nonsense! it's only the pink gingham." 
"You're not good looking every day," insisted Emma Jane; "but you're different somehow. See my garnet ring; mother scrubbed it in soap and water. How on earth did your aunt Mirandy let you put on your bran' new dress?" 
"They were both away and I didn't ask," Rebecca responded anxiously. "Why? Do you think they'd have said no?" 
"Miss Mirandy always says no, doesn't she?" asked Emma Jane. 
"Ye—es; but this afternoon is very special—almost like a Sunday-school concert." 
"Yes," assented Emma Jane, "it is, of course; with your name on the board, and our pointing to your flag, and our elergant dialogue, and all that." 
The afternoon was one succession of solid triumphs for everybody concerned. There were no real failures at all, no tears, no parents ashamed of their offspring. Miss Dearborn heard many admiring remarks passed upon her ability, and wondered whether they belonged to her or partly, at least, to Rebecca. The child had no more to do than several others, but she was somehow in the foreground. It transpired afterwards at various village entertainments that Rebecca couldn't be kept in the background; it positively refused to hold her. Her worst enemy could not have called her pushing. She was ready and willing and never shy; but she sought for no chances of display and was, indeed, remarkably lacking in self-consciousness, as well as eager to bring others into whatever fun or entertainment there was. 
"And now you're done with school?" 
Her gaze flickers away uncertainly. "My brother was sent to fetch me, to bring me home. My mother is ill. 
The family needs— oh, you know. Family responsibilities. Frederick still bears the brunt of it, of course, 
because he is the scion of such a great and noble house, but he can't care for mother and the charitable trust and the businesses and everything else, even with Amah-" She stops herself abruptly. "It's boring, Ray. A long and boring story." 
Ray nods. He understands something about exigencies, long and boring, but which remain exigencies nonetheless. 
"I'm sorry," he says. 
"Don't worry. I'm certain Frederick has already provided the necessary tutors to complete my education. He can't very well let his little sister be practically a cultural illiterate ! That would be so mundane, so crass. " 
Ray had actually been thinking about the ailing family matriarch, but he thinks it's probably best not to clarify the point. Instead, he says, "Well, maybe getting home won't be so bad. I'm sure there have been some exciting changes in your absence. Outlier colonies tend to ebb and flow rapidly." 
Click. Click. Click. Pieces of a puzzle he wasn't aware he had been assembling drop into place, revealing a landscape that was hauntingly familiar. That Whiston. Those Whistons. Not a disinherited, starfaring branch living off the name and the notoriety, but the actual root of the family tree. It was as if she'd said the magical words Rockefeller or Gates or Primus to a latter day, goggle eyed Horatio Alger protagonist. The air seeps out of Ray's lungs and doesn't return for several seconds. 
"Please don't look at me like that, Ray," Emma says. 
A shake of the head. "Like what?" 
"Like I've tipped my hand and shown you all of my cards." She knew that he knew, and the plaint in her eyes was suddenly there, as real and naked as tears. 
In that instant, he understands much. "How about I just go back to leering when you're not watching?" 
"I'd like that." 
"I'd like that, too, but it isn't exactly polite, so I won't. Would you like me to order something for you instead?" 
She eyes his bowl without any self-consciousness. "I'll just take yours, if you're done." 
“Much better than I can afford,” she thought. “Goodness knows what’s going to happen to me! Here I am, without visible means of support. I suppose I’m an idiot. Lots of people would say so. They’d say I ought to be looking for a new job this instant; but I don’t care! I’m not going back on Caroline. Mrs. Enderby won’t do anything, and Mr. Houseman’s gone away, and there’s nobody but me. Perhaps I can’t do very much, but, by jiminy, I’m going to try!” 
There was still an hour to spare, and she passed it in a fashion she had often scornfully denounced. She went shopping—without buying. She wandered through a great department store, looking at all sorts of things. Some of them she wanted, but she resolutely told herself that she was better off without them. 
Then, at the proper time, she went back to the Grand Central, recovered her bag, bought herself two or three magazines and a bar of chocolate, and boarded the train. For all that she tried to be so cool and sensible, she could not help feeling a queer little thrill of excitement. Her quest had begun, and she could not in any way foresee the end. 
I stumbled back out into the night. I’d barely remembered to wipe my prints from the stanchion and the urn. I left the rest of the evidence of my crime scattered across the polished stone floor under the eyes of all the ashy dead. 
Do not try to remember under any circumstances. 
Do not try to remember under any circumstances. 
The words circled, chanting, a repeating loop until they lost all meaning and became nonsense syllables, a never-ending, mocking litany. 
Eight words. Do not try to remember under any circumstances. 
Eight ugly, meaningless, mind-fucking words. 
The slashing, slanting handwriting had been undoubtedly and mathematically my own, with my signature underneath. I didn’t remember writing the note. Didn’t remember hiding it. Didn’t remember why I would have wanted to. 
Do not try to remember under any circumstances. 
I only knew that my brain had been right not to want to remember. I had been right, and here was the proof. 
I didn’t text Checker to tell him I was coming. Instead, I busted into the Hole hard enough that the door banged against the computer towers behind it, the metal bruising the paint. 
“Friends. They’re cool.” 
“You’re not going to take me to the ER, are you? Because — ” 
“The police would find out. I lined up a place in Wisconsin for you. There’s a person there who can take care of your ankle. It’s a friend of a friend. It should be safe. Hey, at least your buddy came through. He wanted me to be sure to tell you you’re even now.” 
Wheeze laughed weakly. “No shit? He did good.” 
It looked as if Bree won the argument and took the wheel. 
Nikko climbed in to ride shotgun. “Ready to roll?” She asked. 
“You know where you going?” 
“I’m pretty sure I know how to get back to the highway, and then I’ll follow signs to Dubuque. I’ll need directions once we get there, but you all can get some rest for now.” 
She switched the engine on and then I said “Wait!” 
“What?” Everyone tensed. 
“We didn’t get his stuff from the shed.” 
Wheeze groaned. “Oh, yeah. I had a backpack and a bedroll. 
Some trash, too. I wasn’t being as careful as I should have been. 
Wasn’t sure there would be any point.” 
It was not the room, which was far more comfortable than Rebecca's own at the farm, nor the lack of view, nor yet the long journey, for she was not conscious of weariness; it was not the fear of a strange place, for she loved new places and courted new sensations; it was because of some curious blending of uncomprehended emotions that Rebecca stood her sunshade in the corner, tore off her best hat, flung it on the bureau with the porcupine quills on the under side, and stripping down the dimity spread, precipitated herself into the middle of the bed and pulled the counterpane over her head. 
In a moment the door opened quietly. Knocking was a refinement quite unknown in Riverboro, and if it had been heard of would never have been wasted on a child. 
Miss Miranda entered, and as her eye wandered about the vacant room, it fell upon a white and tempestuous ocean of counterpane, an ocean breaking into strange movements of wave and crest and billow. 
The tone in which the word was voiced gave it all the effect of having been shouted from the housetops. 
For all of about three seconds, anyway. 
A whoop, a slamming of doors and thunder of feet. A dozen children squirt from the doorway into the hall, 
spilling into the room like the forward advance of a scrambling vanguard of army ants. Arms raised, elbows and knees flailing, howling with delight. 
Someone shouts: "Captain Shadow!" 
"Woot!" 
Young voices, delicious in their excitement, three-o'clock voices. 
"Hooray for Shadow!" 
They pile into the staid leather chairs, sprawl across sofas; kids from four to twelve, swaddled in pink and blue pajamas, the smaller ones with stuffed animals, older ones maybe with desk compads or gaming units. 
One of the younger boys springs to the wall, punches the vid feed and power buttons on the display. An older girl, annoyed, follows up, plugs in the channel commands.  -he's Captain Shadow! Arch enemy of Carok, chief of the Pirates ofSahlura Gaal, sworn defender of the fledgling imperial outpost Zod City, Captain Shadow leads the fight for Justice, Equality, Right against the forces of evil! 
"No trouble," he said. 
"None," I agreed. 
He touched something at his belt and the shackles behind me let go, my arms dropping suddenly behind me. It was like he was wearing Batman's utility belt -- wireless remotes for shackles! I guessed it made sense, though: you wouldn't want to lean over your prisoners with all that deadly hardware at their eye-level -- they might grab your gun with their teeth and pull the trigger with their tongues or something. 
My hands were still lashed together behind me by the plastic strapping, and now that I wasn't supported by the shackles, I found that my legs had turned into lumps of cork while I was stuck in one position. Long story short, I basically fell onto my face and kicked my legs weakly as they went pins-and-needles, trying to get them under me so I could rock up to my feet. 
The guy jerked me to my feet and I clown-walked to the very back of the truck, to a little boxed-in porta-john there. I tried to spot Darryl on the way back, but he could have been any of the five or six slumped people. Or none of them. 
"We've been reading your mail for a day now. We changed the password so that your home computer couldn't fetch it." 
Well, of course they had. I would have done the same, now that I thought of it. 
"We have enough on you now to put you away for a very long time, Marcus. Your possession of these articles --" she gestured at all my little gizmos -- "and the data we recovered from your phone and memory sticks, as well as the subversive material we'd no doubt find if we raided your house and took your computer. It's enough to put you away until you're an old man. Do you understand that?" 
I didn't believe it for a second. There's no way a judge would say that all this stuff constituted any kind of real crime. It was free speech, it was technological tinkering. It wasn't a crime. 
But who said that these people would ever put me in front of a judge. 
"We know where you live, we know who your friends are. We know how you operate and how you think." 
It dawned on me then. They were about to let me go. The room seemed to brighten. I heard myself breathing, short little breaths. 
"Enough," she said. "As many as I can make. I mostly do commissions, but only with people who come down in person. I won't sell online. Getting off email was the best gift I ever gave myself." 
"You are hard to reach," he said. 
"Nope. I'm easy to reach -- you just have to haul ass here to Pico Rivera. There's even parking, if you're that kind of pervert." 
"I think I see why you aren't interested in capital," he said. "You can't scale this up -- not with all the money in the world." 
"You VCs -- scale, scale, scale! It's all you think of. You're wrong, as it turns out. This business decomposes into four elements: materials acquisition, design, fabrication and retail. They all scale like crazy. 
"Take materials. After the WTO, the Chinese spent 25 years brute-forcing the problem-space of all possible 3D plastic objects that an American might pay money for. There is no shortage of that stuff -- most of it is sitting in international waters somewhere on a container ship, waiting for someone to pay the carbon taxes to land it somewhere. I can bring in all the junk electronics and chassis and parts that I want, and I print the actuators, controllers, wires and the rest of it here. 
Then eight months ago, the State Department notified Lou she was missing in Guatemala. She'd overstayed her visa and nobody knew where she was. 
So how did her "new plane of consciousness" land her in Central America? Was that part of the fantasy world she'd now returned to? Lou still worked downtown at 26 Federal Plaza, but he immediately took a leave of absence and, though he spoke not a...  there to look for her. 
He was there a month, following false leads, till he finally ran into a Reverend Ben Jackson, late of a self-styled Prot­estant ministry in Mississippi, who was one of the ardent new Evangelicals swarming over Central America. The man mentioned that some chicle harvesters in the northwest Peten Department of Guatemala had found a young woman in an old dugout canoe on the Guatemala side of the wide Usumacinta River, near a tributary called the Rio Tigre, lodged in amongst overhanging trees. She'd been struck on the head and presumably set adrift somewhere upriver, left for dead. She was now in a coma, resting at Jackson's "Jesus es el Hombre" clinic, also located deep in the northwest Peten rain forest. He had no idea who she was. 
Ray has been tripping over the same types of thoughts for the last hour or more, mostly trying to ignore them. 
He has no insights to offer. 
"Tell me about this thing Brezhnaya pulled out of the pool. What was it?"  "It was a shed," Ray says, his voice low. "The Ialdabaoth's shed." 
He hasn't spoken that word in years, and even now it chills him, a talisman of evil. 
"What is it? Where did it come from?" 
"Rich, I—" Ray spreads his arms, a gesture like pleading. "It's complicated, and I don't pretend to understand it. I don't even like to think about it." 
But Becker is implacable. He shakes his head at Ray's refusals, crosses his arms over his chest. "Well you'd better get used to thinking about it. We need to know what we're looking at here. We have to know how to combat something like this. Something that can kill with words, for God's sake. What it is, where it comes from, what it wants." 
Ray stiffens. "What are you talking about?" 
"If there is a shed aboard this ship, we have to know how to stop it. You have to tell us." 
He stopped at the machine to get himself a guarana/medafonil power-bar and a cup of...  clean-room sippy-cup. He wolfed down the bar...  inner door read his hand-geometry and size him up for a moment. It sighed open and gusted the airlock’s load of positively pressurized air over him as he passed finally to the inner sanctum. 
It was bedlam. The cages were designed to let two or three sysadmins maneuver around them at a time. Every other inch of cubic space was given over to humming racks of servers and routers and drives. Jammed among them were no fewer than twenty other sysadmins. It was a regular convention of black tee-shirts with inexplicable slogans, bellies overlapping belts with phones and multitools. 
Normally it was practically freezing in the cage, but all those bodies were overheating the small, enclosed space. Five or six looked up and grimaced when he came through. Two greeted him by name. He threaded his belly through the press and the cages, toward the Ardent racks in the back of the room. 
Someone was trying to talk to me, an officer-agent-person with a rifle in one hand and his other hand touching my neck, searching out a pulse; he shouted to someone and then moved over to Martinez. There was a lot more movement, a lot of people hurrying and shouting “clear” and running back and forth, and I was glad I didn’t have to join in, but could just sit here and be still and in pain and cough every so often. 
And then Arthur appeared next to me as if by magic, wearing a vest himself and gently unwinding the chains around my wrists. “Arthur,” I slurred. “You got my message.” 
He leaned forward briefly so his forehead touched mine. “Yeah. We got your message.” 
I tried to push myself up as soon as Arthur finished freeing me. He attempted to stop me with some nonsense about waiting for the paramedics, but when it became clear I was determined to ignore him he got an arm under me and helped me wobble upright while berating me gently for being stupid. 
I mumbled something incoherent in response. His grip around my shoulders hurt, a lot, but I didn’t care. 
“No. Because you’re disregarding it as an option.” 
“So?” 
“So, that is very unlike you.” 
I found myself becoming annoyed. Which was unheard of—I couldn’t remember ever having gotten annoyed at Rio. Why was he insisting on being so infuriating over this Dawna thing? “Oh, so you have my deductive process axiomitized and memorized, do you?” I said. 
“You will not acknowledge her deception as possible?” 
“No!” 
He sat back in his chair. “Odd.” 
I didn’t like the judgment I heard in that word. “What’s that supposed to mean?” 
“Ordinarily, you acknowledge every possibility. It is part of what makes you good at what you do,” Rio said evenly, and if I hadn’t been feeling so hostile toward him at the moment, I might have been flattered by that. “Logic, yes? It’s how you’re wired.” 
“How I’m wired?” 
“I do not mean it as an insult.” 
“Well, maybe I’m taking it as one!” I snapped. “I’m allowed to have a gut instinct about people, you know!” 
“Cas, you detest reliance on gut instinct.” 
“And maybe you don’t know everything about how I work!” My voice was rising, a biting fury building in me by the second. “It’s such a bad thing not to suspect an innocent woman? Oh, right, I forgot— you wouldn’t know anything about valuing other human beings—” 
He was too cheerful by half, which definitely told me he was lying. 
"All right, but I really need to make at least one phone call first." I wanted Steve to know where I was. "And if I walk out of here with a bag, I've got to let the desk know I'm not skipping on the bill." 
"Forget the phone call. No time. Do it after we get back. Just be out front in exactly nineteen minutes. This is not a dry run. The train is leaving. I'm outta here now." 
There was a click and he was gone. 
I sat there a moment staring at the floor. What was I getting into? 
Well, there's one way to find out. Play their game and beat them. There's no better way to get inside what's going on. 
That out of the way, I looked around the room. It was a disaster, but I quickly began cramming things into the small folding backpack I always took on trips. Then I rang the kitchen and told them to make... ) to go, along with a large bottle of distilled water. 
Let him wait. I wrote out a long note to Steve, on the chance he might come looking for me. Then with deliberate slowness, I wandered out to where Alan's Jeep was parked and tossed my backpack behind the seat. 
“My dear young man,” he was saying. “I am not a psychologist. It has always seemed to me the greatest folly to devote serious study to the workings of so erratic and incalculable a machine as the human brain. It is a study in which there are, practically speaking, no general rules, no trustworthy data. It is, in my opinion, not a science at all, but a philosophy; and philosophy makes no appeal to me. I frankly admit that I am entirely materialistic. I care little for causes, but much for effects. Consequently, I have devoted myself to medicine, in which I can produce certain effects according to established rules.” 
“But I meant more particularly the effect of—of things on the mind—the brain, you know,” said Captain Grey’s voice. 
Again Lexy felt a great pity for him. He sounded very, very young in contrast to the doctor—so young and earnest, and so helpless! 
“Exactly!” said the doctor. “You were, I believe, trying to lead to a suggestion that psychology might be of help to Muriel. Am I right?” 
Scald the nerves and fill with dark emptiness Dome of heaven close against your prayers Isolated you are, son of man. 
Isolated be. 
Windows of heaven shut before you. 
Alone. Alone. Alone. 
There is no God to hear the faithless faith."  Waeltz mutters something inchoate, half a thought. He does not so much crumble as he implodes, seems to swell minutely, then deflate as though his bone structure has evaporated. What remains is a pile of flesh, 
spilling fluids, white smoke sifting up from empty holes where his eyes had been. 
On Ray's tactical display, the orange form that was Waeltz flickers and vanishes. Then Pelton. And Whitfield. 
The words roll on, flattening Dhamers in his perch at the canyon's mouth. Kluge and Hanfland crouched on the rim. More, and Ray seems to imagine a perfect scene of Predators hovering two klicks away in the desert, 
suddenly stricken, noses dipping, plummeting from the sky, their rotors scraping trenches in the sand before they lock, shatter, detonate the choppers in blossoms of flame. 
<Gargle> Oh fOrk. That sucks. 
<Shad> I'm really scared about this. He can't handle prison. 
Other people joined the thread. 
<inky> It's sounds like a total setup. 
<Shad> It was. One of those guys is working for the FBI . 
<inky> That's entrapment. 
<callmecheese> Isn't entrapment illegal? 
<DoDec> Technically, but most of the terror- ist convictions in the US since 9/11? That's how they got them. They *invented* them. Total set-up jobs. 
That was typical of DoDec. Whenever there was a question about whether something was illegal or not, he wrote these long, 
detailed answers. What’s weird is that he lives in Thailand where he runs a tech consulting company, but law is interesting to him, 
so he answers questions about it, whether the law someone is ask- ing about is in America or Australia or China or the terms of some obscure trade agreement. There are a lot of really smart people in the Group. 
<DoDec> The exceptions tend to be attacks that come out of the blue. Isolated people with a grudge and easy access to guns or small groups like the 7/7 bombers in London. They're not connected to known terrorist organizations except emotionally so they're really hard to anticipate . 
marbled with blue veins, bruised along the naked buttocks and back where seeping blood has gathered just beneath the skin. Head thrown back, eyes wide and glassy, mouth open in a rictus howl that is black and wide and toothy, with the lips drawn up in a snarl. Hands splayed, legs wide, spread-eagled, toes and fingers jabbed at the cardinal points. And a gaping cavity, a melange of dark crusted blood and white bone, where the torso should be. A body hollowed out like a canoe, done with tools as crude as paleolithic stone knifes. 
Ray sees it, wades through his obligatory moment of horror, the steps clear, mentally backs away, kick starts his brain. 
So where is the rest of him? 
Where is all the blood, the liters and liters of blood that should have spumed from a young body with a strong  heart the instant the chest was cracked? 
Where are the organs normally crammed breastbone to pelvis, rhythmically chugging fluids along in an approximation of cosmic harmony? 
Probably in that stone ring beside him, the one filled to the top with brackish, dark water like a soured well. 
“Why?” 
The man calling himself Steve hesitated very deliberately. I was starting to think that he practiced being deliberate in front of a mirror. “Because people who speak with Dawna Polk see only what she wishes them to.” 
“Yeah, well, clearly I’m not the only one who figured it out. You and your little band seem to know exactly what her deal is.” 
“Because I have not spoken to her.” 
The light breeze in the park suddenly felt very cold. 
“Neither has Mr. Finch,” Steve continued. “Neither, I pray to God, has anyone else who works with us, because if they have, we are already lost.” 
“You don’t trust your own people?” I asked, my mouth dry. 
“It is not a matter of trust,” he said. “Dawna Polk is...for lack of a better word, she is what one might call a telepath.” 
There was a moment of silence. Then I snorted out a laugh. “You’re putting me on.” 
“I assure you I am not.” 
“That’s ridiculous. Telepathy doesn’t exist,” I informed him. 
“Please explain,” said Tresting. 
Steve opened his mouth, and the pounding in my head resurged—this time along with a visceral, shriveling dread. More than anything else in the world, I wanted him not to explain. 
When she opened the door, he was standing right there, taller than her. "I think you're right," he said. "About the network. It's the best explanation I've heard so far." 
She wrapped herself in silence again, waited for him to say more. 
"You see, the true , neutral network is immune to corrupting influences and favoritism. So the existence of corruption and favoritism means that what we've got isn't a true network. Which means you're right! We need to have a hearing to get to the bottom of this, so that we can build the true network." He smiled bravely. "I thought maybe you could use an expert in your corner who'd say that in a hearing?" 
"Thanks," she said, and slipped under his arm and back into the kitchen. Suddenly, she wanted very much to be back at her office, back with her staff, talking to reporters and overseeing a million details. "I'll think about it." 
"I'm giving up my apartment at the end of the month -- next Monday. I won't be able to afford it without the Association's salary," he said. 
“Caroline has a headache,” Mrs. Enderby explained. “It will be better for her to rest for a little.” 
“Ah! Too bad!” said he. “Don’t think she gets out in the air enough. Er—good morning, Miss Moran!” 
Lexy almost forgot to answer him, so intent was she upon watching Mrs. Enderby open her letters. There must, she thought, be some change in that calm, pale face when she didn’t find a letter from Caroline, there must be something to break this inhuman tranquillity. 
But nothing broke it. Mr. Enderby ate his breakfast, and his wife chatted affably with him while she glanced over her mail. The sunshine poured into the room, gleaming on silver and linen, and on the cheerful young parlor maid moving quietly about her duties. It was a morning just like other mornings; and, in spite of herself, Lexy’s feeling of dread and oppression began to lighten. Mr. Enderby was so thoroughly unperturbed, Mrs. Enderby was so serene and majestic, the house was so bright and pleasant in the spring morning, that it was hard to believe that anything could be really amiss. 
"Great." 
Rodriguez seems to be the only one amused. "Think of it as a field test for new equipment, sergeant." 
"According to the most recent statistics, corporal, outside the New Mes combat zone, more Marines are killed field testing experimental equipment in training exercises each year than in all other military related activities combined. Just something for you to file away for later review." 
They leave it there, not because there isn't more to say, but because they don't have the breath to waste on standard Marine smack. Finally, after what seems like years, they reach the L-shaped end of the gangway they've been traveling and split right down the rear corridor. What Ray estimates to be a hundred meters distant, there is a column of sharp, steady illumination spearing up from the floor. They race for it, and spread out around the tip of the ladder, like peering down into a well. 
Ray gets on the comm. "Becker." 
"I'm here." 
"I'm looking down a shaft into what appears to be Sub-deck Pi. Judging from the fact that it's completely lit and I don't hear the distinct echo of bloody screams, I'm guessing that our boy has decided to shoot for Sigma. 
Ana was waiting by the printer, making it output clothes and food as fast as it could, giving it to robots to tie up in grip-sheets. 
“Would you have turned us in if we didn’t help you?” 
Valentine shook her head and tried not to smile. “No one would have believed me anyway. I’m not boobytrapped, either.” 
“I didn’t think you were,” Ana said. She gave Valentine a long hug and kissed her cheek. “Be careful, OK?” 
“Why don’t you people help us? Why can’t you give our army hardened logic for their weapons?” 
Ana shook her head. She was crying. “You think I haven’t asked this? To do that would be suicide. Your enemies would never forgive us. It’s one thing to chide them for their slaughter, another thing to end it.” 
Valentine had Ana print her some convincing rags with bit-mapped filth right in the weave and wrapped her parcels in them so they wouldn’t be suspicious. She stepped out into the bright light of a spring day, every sound sharp as a pin-drop, from distant gunfire to the nearby hungry whimpering of a baby. 
More and more I was beginning to suspect this detour for the two women had been a diversion, an attempt to stall. Marcelina had set it up. Maybe she wanted to tell me some­thing, and she didn't have the nerve to do it point-blank. 
"Families are very important," she said, sounding sincere. "We'll go now." She spoke to the women briefly, an animated benediction that seemed to leave her even more disturbed. As we headed out and on down the path, I again wondered what was really happening. 
When we reached the end of the long "street," the arched arbors still above us, she stopped in front of an odd stone building unlike any of the others and pointed. 
"This is where she likes to be," she said quietly. "Except for the pyramid, it's the most sacred place in Baalum." 
The doorway was a stone arch about five feet high and pointed at the top like a tiny Gothic cathedral. 
"What . . . is this?" I felt as though I was about to enter something from the Temple of Doom. 
"It was once the royal bath," she explained. "In ancient times heated rocks were brought in, with spring water from a sacred cenote ." 
Her pinned-up hair was all undone on one side and halfway falling down on the other. Also, she looked mad. Like angry-mad combined with crazy-mad. 
“My brother needs a lawyer.” 
“He’s in luck. Law schools have been pumping them out like crazy. He won’t have any trouble finding one. Just lift a rock.” Her voice didn’t sound as old and frail as she looked. It was sharp and snobby. 
“No, I mean he needs you.” 
“Don’t be silly. Nobody needs me.” 
“Asif Ranjha and Xavier Jackson needed you.” 
“Charming. You’ve done your homework.” 
“It’s all online.” 
“I’m sure that’s where you do all of your homework. Much eas- ier than actual research, I’m told. Well, it was a waste of your time. 
I’m retired.” She started to close the door. It got stuck on the piles of mail. 
“The FBI picked Wilson up this morning,” I said, fast and loud. “Along with a bunch of other people, one of whom is proba- bly an FBI informant. They’re accused of being terrorists, but they aren’t.” 
She rolled her eyes. I guess she thought that’s what happens to stupid people. I was getting fed up with her attitude. 
When he finished, he put down the basket, then turned to me. "Stand at the front edge of the platform and lift your hands in benediction. They all want to see you, the new bride." 
I took a couple of steps, then looked back to see him adding more copal to the main censer, sending a fresh cloud of smoke billowing out into the rain. As the incense poured around us, the Army thugs who'd been loitering at the back of the stone room began coming forward, each carrying one of the bassinets. They set them down on the stones, ready to start taking the children. My outraged mind flashed on Ghirlandajo's "Massacre of the Innocents." Here, though, Sarah's children weren't being stabbed to death; they were being—kidnapped and stolen. 
Revulsion pierced through me as though I'd been hit by a jagged shaft of lightning, but instead of being knocked down, I was energized. Or maybe the final effects of the toad venom were giving me a spurt of adrenaline. Letting his criminal charade continue one second longer became unbear­able. What would happen to me, I didn't know, but I couldn't let it go on. 
Here in the hallway, the gunfire thundered through and echoed off the walls until it was twice as deafening. Halliday flinched against my shoulder. Well, excuse me, Professor. 
We got to the main entryway before they cornered us. In the same place I’d followed the Lancer and D.J. in from the sunlight, a square block of brightness tempted us with freedom, but it was far—too far. Goons poured in from all directions, loading weapons as they came. Three smoke grenades sailed over from our left and landed hissing in front of us. Not more smoke... 
My leg muscles spasmed again. 
Nobody had fired—they must be trying to take us back alive—but my body was giving out on me faster than I had expected, and I’d breathed a lot more smoke than I’d meant to. The mathematics wavered in melting lines around me, and the AK wavered in my hand. I wasn’t sure I could fight them all and win. 
Through the smoke, through my streaming eyes, I caught sight of something snaking up the wall. 
Hey, I’m working on the foundation, the insane D.J. had said. You gotta see what I’ve put together. It’s balls-out cool... 
I left Arthur sitting in the dark and struggled down off the heap of rubble. Fortunately, an impound lot gave me ample choice of a new vehicle. 
I expected to hear sirens on my way out, but there was nothing. The processing center was on its own lot, out of line-of-sight of its nearest neighbors—maybe people had thought the implosion had been an earthquake. 
The cops would get here eventually, though. Arthur could go to hell and join them. 
I called Checker as I was jacking another car, once my hearing had mostly returned. “How’s the plan going?” I asked. We didn’t need the Feds. I’d show Arthur. I’d show him. 
“In place—I think—” 
“Why are you whispering?” 
“Because my worst nightmare has come to pass. The apocalypse. The end times—” 
“Checker!” 
“There are NSA agents in my house.” 
Okay, for once I wasn’t going to accuse him of exaggeration. “Shit, what do they want? Do you need me to come over there and—” 
“What? No! I mean, I don’t think so. I’m not under arrest or—or—whatever else they do to overzealous white hat dudes who are creative enough to step out of the narrowly confined boxes proscribed by our myopic legal system. They don’t even seem terribly interested in what I do, only what I know about Professor Sonya’s case, and trust me, I am not disabusing them of the notion that I am a small fry beneath their notice.” He paused unhappily, and the hyperbole went out of his voice. “I just...I just don’t like them in my house.” 
she typed. 
› You mean gold? 
› If I meant gold, I would have said gold. Can you go voice? 
Anda looked around. Her door was shut and she could hear her parents in the sitting-room watching something loud on telly. She turned up her music just to be safe and then slipped on her headset. They said it could noise-cancel a Blackhawk helicopter—it had better be able to overcome the little inductive speakers suction-cupped to the underside of her desk. She switched to voice. 
“Hey, Lucy,” she said. 
“Call me Sarge!” Lucy’s accent was American, like an old TV show, and she lived somewhere in the middle of the country where it was all vowels, Iowa or Ohio. She was Anda’s best friend in-game but she was so hardcore it was boring sometimes. 
“Hi Sarge,” she said, trying to keep the irritation out of her voice. She’d never smart off to a superior in-game, but v2v it was harder to remember to keep to the game norms. 
“I have a mission that pays real cash. Whichever paypal you’re using, they’ll deposit money into it. Looks fun, too.” 
I didn't know if that was the best idea, but I didn't have any better ones. I signed it and encrypted it with my private key and the public key Masha had provided. 
Attached was source-code for a little program that appeared to do exactly what Masha claimed: pull video over the Domain Name Service protocol. 
Let me back up a moment here and explain something. At the end of the day, every Internet protocol is just a sequence of text sent back and forth in a prescribed order. It's kind of like getting a truck and putting a car in it, then putting a motorcycle in the car's trunk, then attaching a bicycle to the back of the motorcycle, then hanging a pair of Rollerblades on the back of the bike. Except that then, if you want, you can attach the truck to the Rollerblades. 
For example, take Simple Mail Transport Protocol, or SMTP, which is used for sending email. 
Connection closed by foreign host. 
This conversation's grammar was defined in 1982 by Jon Postel, one of the Internet's heroic forefathers, who used to literally run the most important servers on the net under his desk at the University of Southern California, back in the paleolithic era. 
“What—? I don’t— no, of course not!” she stammered. Her skin burned tomato red now, from her neck to the roots of her sweat-dampened hair. “Why would you—I don’t even—” 
I laughed for real as traffic started creeping forward again. She was too easy. 
Courtney’s place was only a few miles from Anton’s, and I decided to drop by the information broker’s first. Anton’s garage was a constant of the universe. A ramshackle mechanic’s outfit, the place had never changed in all the times I’d been there. The words “Mack’s Garage” barely showed through a decades-thick layer of motor oil and grime on a bent-up metal sign, and the junkers in the bays were the same derelict vehicles I’d seen the last time. No customers were in sight. Anton did know cars, as it happened, but he wasn’t known for being an auto mechanic. 
I knocked on the door to the office and Anton opened it himself, a faded gray work coverall over his considerable bulk. Anton was a big, big man in every way—six-foot-five and beefy all over, he had a thick neck, thicker face, and steel-gray hair shaven to a strict quarter-inch, which for some reason made him seem even bigger. Considering I was already short, I tended to feel like a toy person next to him. But as much as I was sure he could open a can of whoop-ass on someone if he wanted to, I always thought he was kind of a teddy bear. A surly, taciturn teddy bear who never smiled, but a teddy bear nonetheless. 
The brute horror here wouldn’t tell me anything useful. I escaped back into the outer offices, doing my best to avoid looking at the bodies, and attacked the cubicles, dragging open desk drawers and filing cabinets. 
I needn’t have bothered. Cabinet after cabinet revealed rows of hanging file folders, telling me some paper trail had been here, but every one of them swung empty—even the paper tabs labeling the folders had been pulled. The desk drawers mocked me with more of the same. I tried the computers next—when the first one refused to start, I crawled around to the back to find the hard drive missing, the connectors still dangling. I took the time to check around the back of every computer in the place, but they were all gutted. The private offices showed much the same story except sans corpses; apparently everyone important had been in the conference room. 
Bits of paper from a shredder littered the floor here and there as I moved through the suite. I eventually found the shredder in question, an industrial-strength behemoth, but the bin beneath it had been cleared out. I figured out why when I found the office kitchen. 
“Yes, I do,” Dawna said briskly. “Now, we do know you can be...an effective person, even unarmed. Please believe Mr. Tresting will continue to be a hostage to your good behavior.” She raised her voice slightly. “Take her, please.” 
More shadows glided out of the surrounding rooms, black-clad bodies punctuated with the distinctive hard angles of the well-armed. If I had been here alone, I might have looked for a way out, even with Dawna reading me—might have tried to get away even if the mathematical expectation read death. But if I made a move... goddamn Arthur. I shut my mind away from calculating escape routes and let gloved hands pull my wrists behind me; the plastic bite of a ziptie cut into my skin. 
This was why I should never care about another person’s welfare, I thought. 
“Oh, Ms. Russell. Caring about others is what makes life worth living,” Dawna chastised me. 
I squinted at her. I might not be psychic, but I couldn’t hear any irony in her words. She seemed to believe that. 
the only sound the scuffling of our boots on gravel and a muted rumble of traffic from the highway bridge. The shack was tilting to one side and had windows boarded up with plywood. Its siding had once been painted white, but was now silver weathered wood with bits of curled paint clinging to it like lichen on a rock. 
A folded sandwich board was leaning against the shack. I took hold of the hinged end and turned it around to see wobbly letters: LIVE BAIT WORMS MINNOWS COLD BEER. “Wheeze’s shed must be near here,” I said, keeping my voice down. 
I looked for a path through the brambles and dead under- growth surrounding the run-down building. My toes snagged on vines that were climbing up tree trunks and drooping from branches. “Wheeze?” I called out, not very loudly. “I got your note.” 
Nothing. Were we too late? I scanned around with my flash- light beam. Lots of skinny trees and dead weeds. The traffic on the highway bridge made a constant low hum. Somewhere, out there beyond the dark woods the river slipped past. 
“Hello?” 
“Why are you at a drugstore?” 
I tried to dredge up a flip answer and couldn’t. My thoughts scraped uncomfortably against each other. 
“Cas, are you injured?” 
Bailing on the conversation was easier than answering. “No,” I said, and hung up. 
The drugstore did, in fact, have a rack of local street maps. I bought one and went back out to my stolen car to unfold it. 
I didn’t know when the bad guys had started out, but... Estimate. Probabilities. 
I closed my eyes. Why did everything still insist on being so fuzzy? 
Inner and outer search radii. Concentric circles of decreasing probability. Adjusted for the metric of road access and speed rather than straight-line distance. A jagged ring rose up in my head, clumsily centered on the location I’d been attacked. 
I examined the map more closely. The direction they’d come from—they weren’t trying to hide anything; they’d meant to kill me. If they’d been going east on the freeway, they would’ve come from the other side of the overpass. 
The anomaly. She was talking about Rio—and my relationship with him was her anomaly. “You think you have him,” I whispered, suddenly cold. “You think you found a way.” 
She inclined her head. “For which I must thank you. His belief in God was the key to our understanding. No one else might have known such a thing about him.” 
“I never mentioned that,” I croaked. 
She smiled pityingly. “Oh, Ms. Russell, you know who I am. You didn’t need to.” Of course. “Mr. Sonrio has indeed agreed to work for us,” she continued. “I did expect it would come to that, considering the vast overlap in our mutual goals, but it was you who put us on the right track, so again, thank you, Ms. Russell. I believe we shall be able to satisfy his...needs, and the good he will do with us will save so many lives.” 
Tresting made a strangled sound. “Wait. You wanted him to work for you?” 
I wanted to laugh in his face, even though I had never felt less amused. “What, she didn’t tell you? She doesn’t want to keep Rio from going around killing people, she wants to harness him for herself. Why did you think they wanted him alive?” 
"But your field has been co-opted by corrupt interests. When you study the distributions, you can see it clearly: the rich and the powerful get to their destinations more quickly; the poor are routed through franchise ghettoes and onto toll-roads; the more important you are, the fewer number of connections you have to make when you fly, the better the chance that you'll get a kidney when you need it. The evidence is there for anyone to see, if only you look. We need standards for this -- we need to be able to interrogate the system and find out why it does what it does. That's an achievable goal, and a modest one: we're just asking for the same checks and balances that we rely on in the real world." 
He looked away and set down his taco. "Trish, I have a lot of respect for you. Please remember that when I tell you this. You are talking nonsense. The network is, by definition, above corruption. You simply can't direct it to give your cronies a better deal than the rest of the world. The system is too complex to game. Its behavior can't be predicted -- how could it possibly be guided ? Statistics can be manipulated to 'prove' anything, but everyone who has any clue about this understands that this is just paranoid raving --" 
“Shut up, you imbecile.” 
I sniffed his shoulder. He always smelled good, like green tea, 
or maybe mint, or just the fresh way clothes smell when they’ve been hung outside on a clothesline. You are not going to cry, I told myself. Absolutely not. No way. I blinked hard a few times and I didn’t. 
“So, what is this crazy thing?” he asked. 
“It’s really, truly crazy.” I pushed him away. He waited. “It’s dangerous. It could turn really bad. And it would take an excel- lent actor to pull it off.” 
He spread his arms and gave me a look as if to say, Hello ? Right here in front of you. 
“So of course I thought of you, but you’ve got other stuff to do, and this is going to take lots of time and chances are you’d end up in jail or on the news or both. I can’t ask you to do this.” 
“I would love to be on the news. Jail, not so much. Luckily, my dad’s a lawyer. What is it you want me to do?” 
I looked around to make sure we couldn’t be overheard. “I need someone to make friends with a guy and get him to talk about blowing things up. And rat him out to the FBI so that they can set up a sting and arrest the guy as a terrorist.” 
"But they're not fired ," the Series B man said. Lee-Daniel didn't know either of the investors' names. Fucking spear-carriers, fronts for unimaginable, implacable wealth, charged with returning 400 percent over three years on a national-budget-sized fund. 
"Tell them," Lee-Daniel said. "They don't listen when they're like this." They don't listen to people like you, not ever. 
"Get down," he said to Elaine. She was wedged into a crook and tied off with an improvised harness made out of nylon rope and carabiners from her vest. "We've got to get back to the bus!" 
"They'll shoot us," Elaine said. 
"They can't see us," he said. Laser sights danced in the fog. He heard the crack of Cobra's rifle. 
"He's scared," Elaine said. Next to her, also tied off -- where did Elaine keep that many carabiners? -- was a young surveyor, one they'd just picked up in Montana, a kid with a shaved head who had shyly asked him for a job after meeting Elaine at the local Army-Navy store and getting a lecture on which gear to buy and why. He was wrapped around the branch like a serpent, locked at the ankles, thighs and wrists. 
Oh, she was wicked. Delightfully so in some ways, when she didn't generate in him the urge to strangle her.  "What makes you think I'm American." 
"Your accent gives you away. Like mine, I suppose. I'm American, too. Originally, I mean. I was born there." 
The smile, the eyes, a wink. "So do you? Do you like American?" 
"American food makes me homesick," he says, which was pretty much true. 
Click. Click. Click. Pieces of a puzzle he wasn't aware he had been assembling drop into place, revealing a landscape that was hauntingly familiar. That Whiston. Those Whistons. Not a disinherited, starfaring branch living off the name and the notoriety, but the actual root of the family tree. It was as if she'd said the magical words Rockefeller or Gates or Primus to a latter day, goggle eyed Horatio Alger protagonist. The air seeps out of Ray's lungs and doesn't return for several seconds. 
"Please don't look at me like that, Ray," Emma says. 
A shake of the head. "Like what?" 
"Like I've tipped my hand and shown you all of my cards." She knew that he knew, and the plaint in her eyes was suddenly there, as real and naked as tears. 
Rebecca came out on the landing braiding her hair. 
"We did on Thanksgiving and Christmas, and I thought this was about as great an occasion," she said. "I moved the wax flowers off the mantelpiece so they wouldn't melt, and put the shells, the coral, and the green stuffed bird on top of the what-not, so the children wouldn't ask to play with them. Brother Milliken's coming over to see Mr. Burch about business, and I shouldn't wonder if Brother and Sister Cobb happened in. Don't go down cellar, I'll be there in a minute to do the running." 
Miranda and Jane exchanged glances. 
"Ain't she the beatin'est creetur that ever was born int' the world!" exclaimed Miranda; "but she can turn off work when she's got a mind to!" 
At quarter past five everything was ready, and the neighbors, those at least who were within sight of the brick house (a prominent object in the landscape when there were no leaves on the trees), were curious almost to desperation. Shades up in both parlors! Shades up in the two south bedrooms! And fires—if human vision was to be relied on—fires in about every room. If it had not been for the kind offices of a lady who had been at the meeting, and who charitably called in at one or two houses and explained the reason of all this preparation, there would have been no sleep in many families. 
The woman pretended not to hear her. She stared down at a pile of papers in front of her, and it was clear to Valentine that she was only pretending to read them. 
Valentine led Trover to the woman’s desk and knocked all the papers off of it. 
“It’s illegal to be a profiteer. Don’t you want to at least arrest him?” 
“I’ll arrest you ,” the woman from the city said, grabbing her wrist. Valentine was ready for this. Her mother had taught her what to do about this. She bent the woman’s thumb back and squeezed it until she tumbled out of the chair and dropped to her knees. 
“That’s enough,” said an old, old hero. He sounded like he was right behind her, but that was just her new ears. When she turned around she saw that he was in the doorway. He was so old now that he looked like a zombie, and his one arm was pointing at her with shaky authority. “Let her go.” 
Valentine released the woman from the city. 
“Do you want to see the profiteer?” Valentine said, approaching the hero. Her mother had respected this man, and Valentine decided she would respect him too. 
Dawna Polk was going down for this. 
When I got back to the neighborhood my safe house was in, I yanked the e-brake and spun, sending the trendy speedster into a sideways skid against the curb between two SUVs with less than twenty centimeters of clearance. Yup, I’m that good at math: I can parallel park in Los Angeles. 
Despite my anger, exhaustion overtook me as I climbed the stairs to the flat. I was going on two days without sleep. I needed some rest, some real rest, and I couldn’t call Tresting till the morning anyway. Well, I could, but I didn’t figure annoying him in the wee hours of the morning to be the brightest move at this point. I cut the ziptie I’d secured the knob with and nudged the door open quietly so as not to wake Courtney if she was still sacked out. 
The loft was dark and quiet. 
Shit. 
My subconscious knew something was wrong before I registered the computations that told me the silence was too absolute. I hit the lights, dreading what they’d show me. The loft’s single room was empty, its small bathroom open and vacant as well. The other side of the handcuffs lay open and impotent on the mattress. 
"I am so sick of being scared," I said. "Let's take this to Barbara and have her publish it all. Put it all on the net. Let them take me away. At least I'll know what's going to happen then. At least then I'll have a little certainty in my life." 
Ange grabbed me and hugged me, soothed me. "I know baby, I know. It's all terrible. But you're focusing on the bad stuff and ignoring the good stuff. You've created a movement. You've outflanked the jerks in the White House, the crooks in DHS uniforms. You've put yourself in a position where you could be responsible for blowing the lid off of the entire rotten DHS thing. 
"Sure they're out to get you. Course they are. Have you ever doubted it for a moment? I always figured they were. But Marcus, they don't know who you are . Think about that. All those people, money, guns and spies, and you, a seventeen year old high school kid -- you're still beating them. They don't know about Barbara. They don't know about Zeb. You've jammed them in the streets of San Francisco and humiliated them before the world. So stop moping, all right? You're winning." 
I thought of the shredded and pulped papers. “Right.” 
“What you shared with me today is valuable also,” said Rio. “I shall put it to good use. And although I cannot say for sure, I do not believe Dawna Polk has influenced you further.” 
“Oh...good. Thanks.” 
“Of course.” 
“Are you trying to take down Pithica?” I asked. 
“Yes.” 
“And you want me to stay out of it.” 
“Yes. Will you?” 
I closed my eyes. I had no leads. Tresting wasn’t talking to me. Courtney was gone. Rio wouldn’t help me. I had no allies, and nothing to follow up on. 
“All right,” I said. 
Rio’s tone when he answered sounded awfully like relief, even though I knew that wasn’t possible. “Thank you, Cas. God bless you.” 
I hung up the phone with Rio and found myself with nothing to do. Giving up on investigating Pithica meant I had zero obligations. I still felt bad about dumping Courtney’s case, but between Dawna masquerading as her sister and Tresting’s evidence that she had killed Reginald Kingsley, it seemed clear she was as hopelessly snarled up in Pithica and its machinations as it was possible to be. Which meant I didn’t feel too bad. 
Valentine did as she was bade, showing the gap in her teeth. 
“You were hit?” her mother said. Valentine didn’t answer. She didn’t trust herself to speak with her mother looking at her like that. “They won’t want you now you’ve lost that tooth,” she said. “You can go back to digging now.” 
She stood up from the table without a word and went out of the flat. She was so feverish that she couldn’t tell if the stairs went down or up, whether she was descending or ascending. 
She tottered out on the street. The way she felt, she couldn’t walk properly. Her hips wanted to give way with every step and so she walked like a funky disco dancer through the early, cold streets, toward the wizard’s house. 
She didn’t make it. Less than half way there, she sat down on a pile of rubble and retched. She reached down into her pocket and pulled out the wizard’s inhaler, but she fumbled it. She couldn’t bend over to get it, so she let herself slowly fall to the street, then she crawled one-armed to it. She fitted it to her mouth and then squeezed it with clumsy fingers. 
"We understand," Ray says. And they do, each one of them, the way the brain leaps into overdrive and sensory input becomes confused with memories, with specters dredged up from the past. "You did everything that was expected of you." 
Diggs snorts, expelling a jet of smoke from his nostrils. "Yeah. Tell that to the boys in blue out there manning my desk, walking my rounds two by two, all but strip searching the cargo yuks down from the franchises. 
They look at me with those grim faces that say Bobby Diggs screwed up. Bobby Diggs got himself the cushiest gig on the whole ship and he messed it up. If this duty was so soft, how come nobody else wanted it? 
How come it got dumped on me because I don't got as much ship time as some of the others? Well, these rent-a-flatfoot pricks can have it as far as I'm concerned. I'll go play on the Garden for a couple of weeks, sip me some espresso and eye rich bitch titties. " 
Ray sorts through his pocket and pulls out a scrap of paper and a pen. He quickly scrawls their room number and comm id and hands it to Bobby Diggs. "Chief Becker hasn't said anything about transferring you off this duty. If it means anything, I don't think he's disappointed with your performance. This is just a political gesture-to show the passengers that things are still under control. " He points at the paper in Bobby's hand. 
“I was afraid of that. Even if we can get the terrorism charge to go away, they could be charged with property crimes. Is there a chance that police will have found illegal drugs on the premises?” 
“No doubt. None of those guys are into drugs in a big way, but I’m sure somebody would have had some weed around.” 
“What about guns?” 
“No way. They wouldn’t ... I mean ...” I stumbled to a stop and then started over. “Well, honestly, I can’t be sure. It’s been a while since I talked to Wilson, and things were getting weird even back then.” 
“Weird in what way?” 
“Before Zip showed up, this was a house full of totally laid- back kids who were kind of a family, right? Because none of them had families where they felt like they belonged. They made their own rules and they got along fine and they didn’t bother any- body.” 
“But then an informant entered the picture.” 
“Right. Wilson met Zip at a protest and said “hey, why don’t you crash at our place?” So he moved in and everything changed.” 
The countryman came a step nearer. 
“I keep thinking about it,” he said in a half whisper. “This is the queer thing about it, miss. That there car didn’t start till I got to the foot of the hill ! The engine was just racing, and the car wasn’t moving along—I know that. It was as if he’d been waiting up there for me, and then down he came as if he meant”—the speaker paused again—“to kill me,” he ended. 
“But—” Lexy began, and then stopped. 
She had a very odd feeling that this story was somehow of great importance to her, but that she must put it away, that she must keep it in her mind until later. This wasn’t the time to think about it. 
“Joe,” she said, “I want to hear more about this—all about it; but not now. I’m too tired.” 
He gave himself a shake, like a dog. Then he turned to her with a slow, good-natured smile. 
“I guess you are!” he said. “Lucky for you I just happened to be late to-night, taking them Ainsly girls ’way out to their house after a dance. Hop in, miss!” 
Lexy got in, and they set off. She leaned back and closed her eyes, but they flew open again as if of their own accord. There was something she wanted to see. Through the glass she could see Joe’s burly shoulders, a little hunched—Joe, who, like herself, wasn’t sure. 
Then Tresting spoke, with an obvious effort. “Thanks again for saving my life, back at my office.” 
I shrugged a little too harshly. “We’re even.” 
“Russell.” 
“Yeah?” 
“Think about what I said, okay? You’re a good kid. You ain’t gotta be like this.” 
“I like how I am just fine,” I said. 
“Take care of yourself.” 
I shrugged again. 
He turned and walked away, leaving me on a graffitied street corner that smelled vaguely of human urine. My adrenaline had faded into listless fatigue. 
Well, I supposed it was time to steal another car and head to one of my bolt holes. Cas Russell, ever prepared. 
I sighed. 
Why did people have to be so complicated? I thought of Dawna Polk’s superpowered human relations ability, and a spark of jealousy twinged. Dawna Polk would have known how to say exactly the right thing so that Arthur understood her. He’d have been eating out of her hand. 
I, on the other hand—well, I could have killed him in less than half a second, but that didn’t help at all. In fact, a niggling voice in the back of my head reminded me that attitude was what he had such issue with in the first place. 
The next day I was a zombie. Ange and I had chatted -- flirted -- until 4AM. Lucky for me, it was a Saturday and I was able to sleep in, but between the hangover and the sleep-dep, I could barely put two thoughts together. 
By lunchtime, I managed to get up and get my ass out onto the streets. I staggered down toward the...  if I was alone, I...  the Turk and I were part of a secret club. 
On the way, I passed a lot of fresh graffiti. I liked Mission graffiti; a lot of the times, it came in huge, luscious murals, or sarcastic art-student stencils. I liked that the Mission's taggers kept right on going, under the nose of the DHS. Another kind of Xnet, I supposed -- they must have all kinds of ways of knowing what was going on, where to get paint, what cameras worked. Some of the cameras had been spray-painted over, I noticed. 
Maybe they used Xnet! 
Painted in ten-foot-high letters on the side of an auto-yard's fence were the drippy words: DON'T TRUST ANYONE OVER 25. 
I stopped. Had someone left my "party" last night and come here with a can of paint? A lot of those people lived in the...  wander around town. I kept thinking I should be calling someone, seeing if they wanted to get a movie or something. That's how it used to be on a lazy Saturday like this. But who was I going to call? Van wasn't talking to me, I didn't think I was ready to talk to Jolu, and Darryl -- Well, I couldn't call...  and did a little searching around on the Xnet's blogs. These anonablogs were untraceable to any author -- unless that author was stupid enough to put her name on it -- and there were a lot of them. Most of them were apolitical, but a lot of them weren't. They talked about schools and the unfairness there. They talked about the cops. Tagging. 
"Rebecca, who was it that sold the three hundred cakes of soap to Mr. Ladd in North Riverboro?" 
"Mr. WHO?" exclaimed Rebecca. 
"Mr. Ladd, in North Riverboro." 
"Is that his real name?" queried Rebecca in astonishment. "I didn't make a bad guess;" and she laughed softly to herself. 
"I asked you who sold the soap to Adam Ladd?" resumed Miss Jane. 
"Adam Ladd! then he's A. Ladd, too; what fun!" 
"Answer me, Rebecca." 
"Oh! excuse me, aunt Jane, I was so busy thinking. Emma Jane and I sold the soap to Mr. Ladd." 
"Did you tease him, or make him buy it?" 
"Now, aunt Jane, how could I make a big grown-up man buy anything if he didn't want to? He needed the soap dreadfully as a present for his aunt." 
Miss Jane still looked a little unconvinced, though she only said, "I hope your aunt Miranda won't mind, but you know how particular she is, Rebecca, and I really wish you wouldn't do anything out of the ordinary without asking her first, for your actions are very queer." 
"There can't be anything wrong this time," Rebecca answered confidently. "Emma Jane sold her cakes to her own relations and to uncle Jerry Cobb, and I went first to those new tenements near the lumber mill, and then to the Ladds'. Mr. Ladd bought all we had and made us promise to keep the secret until the premium came, and I've been going about ever since as if the banquet lamp was inside of me all lighted up and burning, for everybody to see." 
"Of course it's just the same THING; but a baby has got to be called babe or infant in a circular, the same as it is in poetry! Would you rather say infant?" 
"No," grumbled Emma Jane; "infant is worse even than babe. Rebecca, do you think we'd better do as the circular says, and let Elijah or Elisha try the soap before we begin selling?" 
"I can't imagine a babe doing a family wash with ANY soap," answered Rebecca; "but it must be true or they would never dare to print it, so don't let's bother. Oh! won't it be the greatest fun, Emma Jane? At some of the houses—where they can't possibly know me—I shan't be frightened, and I shall reel off the whole rigmarole, invalid, babe, and all. Perhaps I shall say even the last sentence, if I can remember it: 'We sound every chord in the great mac-ro-cosm of satisfaction." 
This conversation took place on a Friday afternoon at Emma Jane's house, where Rebecca, to her unbounded joy, was to stay over Sunday, her aunts having gone to Portland to the funeral of an old friend. Saturday being a holiday, they were going to have the old white horse, drive to North Riverboro three miles away, eat a twelve o'clock dinner with Emma Jane's cousins, and be back at four o'clock punctually. 
I knelt down and rolled my sleeping bag, trying to clear my head. Then I stuffed my still-moist clothes into my back­pack and thought about the river, the Rio Tigre, down some­where at the back of the pyramid. And I felt my pulse rate edging up. The first thing I wanted to do was see it in the light of day. It had been Sarah's way out, the only thing I knew for sure she'd touched. 
Get going and do it. 
I headed through the rear door and down the back steps. When I reached the ground, the dense forest closed in around me, but I was certain the river lay dead ahead, through the tangle of trees. As I moved down a path that grew ever steeper, the canopy up above thickened, arching over me till it blotted out the pure blue of the sky. And the air was filled with nature sounds—birdcalls, trills, songs, and clacks, all mingled with the hum and buzz of insects. Then suddenly, from somewhere up in the canopy, a pack of screeching spi­der monkeys began flinging rotten mangos down in my di­rection. I also thought I heard the asthmatic, territorial roar of a giant howler monkey, the lord of the upper jungle. And what about snakes? I kept an eye on the vines and tendrils alongside the path, expecting any moment to stumble across a deadly fer-de-lance, a little red-and-black operator whose poison heads straight for your nervous system. 
"You could worry about plenty of other things to better advantage," said Miss Maxwell, a little scornfully. "Be afraid, for instance, that you won't understand human nature; that you won't realize the beauty of the outer world; that you may lack sympathy, and thus never be able to read a heart; that your faculty of expression may not keep pace with your ideas,—a thousand things, every one of them more important to the writer than the knowledge that is found in books. AEsop was a Greek slave who could not even write down his wonderful fables; yet all the world reads them." 
"I didn't know that," said Rebecca, with a half sob. "I didn't know anything until I met you!" 
"You will only have had a high school course, but the most famous universities do not always succeed in making men and women. When I long to go abroad and study, I always remember that there were three great schools in Athens and two in Jerusalem, but the Teacher of all teachers came out of Nazareth, a little village hidden away from the bigger, busier world." 
"She's a hot-sauce junkie," I said. "You could serve her old tires and she'd eat 'em if she could smother them in salsa." 
Ange socked me gently in the shoulder. 
"I was going to order Thai," Mom said. "I'll add a couple of their five-chili dishes to the order." 
Ange thanked her politely and Mom bustled around the kitchen, getting us glasses of juice and a plate of biscuits and asking three times if we wanted any tea. I squirmed a little. 
"Thanks, Mom," I said. "We're going to go upstairs for a while." 
Mom's eyes narrowed for a second, then she smiled again. "Of course," she said. "Your father will be home in an hour, we'll eat then." 
"Yeah," she said. "I was going to clean out my bank account on the way home at an ATM. I've got maybe five hundred saved up." 
"What am I going to spend it on?" she said. "Ever since the Xnet, I haven't had to even pay any service charges." 
"I think I've got three hundred or so." 
"Well, there you go. Grab it on the way to Civic Center in the morning." 
If you tried to use your own cipher, there'd be the chance that someone out there had found a flaw you missed and was doing a Turing on your butt, deciphering all your "secret" messages and chuckling at your dumb gossip, financial transactions and military secrets. 
So I knew that crypto would keep me safe from eavesdroppers, but I wasn't ready to deal with histograms. 
I got off the BART and waved my card over the turnstile as I headed up to the 24th Street station. As usual, there were lots of weirdos hanging out in the station, drunks and Jesus freaks and intense Mexican men staring at the ground and a few gang kids. I looked straight past them as I hit the stairs and jogged up to the surface. My bag was empty now, no longer bulging with the ParanoidXbox discs I'd been distributing, and it made my shoulders feel light and put a spring in my step as I came up the street. The preachers were at work still,...  about Jesus and so on. 
The counterfeit sunglass sellers were gone, but they'd been replaced by guys selling robot dogs that barked the national anthem and would lift their legs if you showed them a picture of Osama bin Laden. There was probably some cool stuff going on in their little brains and I made a mental note to pick a couple of them up and take them apart later. Face-recognition was pretty new in toys, having only recently made the leap from the military to casinos trying to find cheats, to law enforcement. 
Shit. 
I always carry a few fake IDs; I never know when I might need one. But along with my Colt, the Colombians had taken everything in my pockets when they’d captured me three days ago, and replacing my ID had completely slipped my mind. My scrambling fingers found that over the past few days I had accumulated a knife, several spare magazines, some loose ammunition, a couple of grenades from the other night, and a bunch of cash, but no IDs. 
“I, uh, I forgot it,” I said. “Look, I’ll leave the booze, it’s fine.” I’d self-medicated enough already to stabilize my world for the moment. I could go back and check the Chinatown apartment to see if I had an ID in my stash in the drywall; I probably did. I raised my hands in a gesture of surrender and took a few steps back. 
The two security guards looked at my half-drunk bottle on the ground. Then they looked at me. 
“I swear I’m over twenty-one,” I said reasonably. “I’ll just go, okay?” 
“Ma’am, please stay there,” said the female security guard. She pulled out a walkie and started speaking into it. 
“Wow.” 
“Yeah.” Tresting leaned back in his chair and closed his eyes. “She’s a trip. Can’t even say she’s the craziest client I ever had, neither, though this is by far the craziest case. Glamorous life of a private eye, huh?” 
“Speaking of, what does a PI license let you do?” I asked, curious. 
“Huh? Well...loiter.” 
“That’s it?” 
“Pretty much.” 
I felt a strong urge to snicker. 
“Though sometimes people see the license and think they have to answer questions,” Tresting amended. “Authority figure and all that.” 
“That’s why I have a fake one,” I said. 
“I didn’t hear that.” 
I went to use the washroom, and took the time to splash water on my face and rinse out my mouth. When I returned, Tresting’s monitors were back on and he was talking to Checker. “Good timing, Russell,” he said. 
“I think I’ve narrowed down your search,” Checker told me. “It fronts as a travel agency, which makes a good cover for tons of international calls. But the security on their intranets is ridiculously intense. It’s—” 
Her tone aroused him. He sprang to his feet, very contrite. 
“No! Look here!” he said. “Please don’t run away! I—I want to talk to you, but it’s a bit hard. You can’t imagine what it’s like to see one of your own people, you know—after such a long time.” 
Lexy sat down again. 
“Was she as you expected her to be?” she asked. 
“I don’t quite know what I expected,” he said. “Only—” 
He paused for a long time, and Lexy waited patiently, for she felt very sorry for Captain Grey. At first sight she had imagined him to be haughty, stiff, and aloof. She knew now that he was a very sensitive man. He was terribly moved, and he wanted to tell her, but he couldn’t. 
She tried to help him. 
“Dr. Quelton came to see me this morning,” she observed. 
“Yes—he said he would. Very decent sort of chap, don’t you think?” 
“Do you mean you liked him?” asked Lexy. 
Captain Grey was a little startled by this Yankee notion of liking a person at first sight. 
“Well, you see,” he said, “I’ve only met him once; but he seems to me a very decent sort of chap. He’s clever, you know, and—and so on, and my sister seems very happy with him.” 
“Why?” 
The man calling himself Steve hesitated very deliberately. I was starting to think that he practiced being deliberate in front of a mirror. “Because people who speak with Dawna Polk see only what she wishes them to.” 
“Yeah, well, clearly I’m not the only one who figured it out. You and your little band seem to know exactly what her deal is.” 
“Because I have not spoken to her.” 
The light breeze in the park suddenly felt very cold. 
“Neither has Mr. Finch,” Steve continued. “Neither, I pray to God, has anyone else who works with us, because if they have, we are already lost.” 
“You don’t trust your own people?” I asked, my mouth dry. 
“It is not a matter of trust,” he said. “Dawna Polk is...for lack of a better word, she is what one might call a telepath.” 
There was a moment of silence. Then I snorted out a laugh. “You’re putting me on.” 
“I assure you I am not.” 
“That’s ridiculous. Telepathy doesn’t exist,” I informed him. 
“Please explain,” said Tresting. 
Steve opened his mouth, and the pounding in my head resurged—this time along with a visceral, shriveling dread. More than anything else in the world, I wanted him not to explain. 
One of my handguns clicked to empty, the slide locking back. I dashed from the doorway, neatly dodging the Taser leads one grunt desperately shot at me and spinning to pistol whip him in the head while I fired the last two rounds out of the gun in my other hand. Then I dove into a slide, the soles of my boots skidding on the wet floor, and came up with one of the dead soldiers’ Berettas. By the time it clicked open, I’d taken out the remaining seven attackers in the hallway. 
I snagged a few more weapons off our downed enemies and returned to the doorway, handing Arthur a share of the new munitions. My boots left wet, red footprints behind me. The crisp burnt scent of gunpowder clogged the air and stung my nostrils, the hazy smoke from the fray curling through corridor. 
“What’s the plan?” Arthur asked, holding a Beretta at high ready and not taking his eyes off the death-wrapped hall. 
“We fight,” I said. 
“Can’t fight forever.” 
“I can.” 
His eyes strayed to the bodies, skittering across the blood. “God help me, I maybe believe you,” he mumbled, so softly I wasn’t sure he knew he said it out loud. 
"What?" he said. 
"You're fired," Lee-Daniel said. "I hate to do it, kid, but it's coming down from the investors. You, Elaine, all the customer service reps, all but the two most senior antennamen and switchgirls." 
"What the fuck ?" Joey Riel said. 
"Keep it down," Lee-Daniel said. "Just keep it easy. They're coming out now to do a head-count and sort out the order for the firings -- they're going to do it in small groups. I wanted to let you know, because you've only just gotten your promotion, so you might get severance at the old salary-level, so I thought I'd give you a little extra time to make some calls and line up some money before the roadhouse cuts off your credit. You're going to need a ride, too." 
"What?" Joey Riel said. He sounded purple , ready to bust. He cursed in three languages. 
"You heard me. Keep it to yourself, OK? I gotta go." He snapped his phone shut, wondering how long it would take before everyone in the company knew: five minutes? Ten? 
He called his lawyer. 
The man from Social Harmony noticed right away that Arturo was checking his phone at 90-second intervals. He was a bald, thin man with a pronounced Adam’s apple, beak-nose and shiny round head that combined to give him the profile of something predatory and fast. In his natty checked suit and pink tie, the Social Harmony man was the stuff of nightmares, the kind of eagle-eyed supercop who could spot Arturo’s attention flicking for the barest moment every 90 seconds to his phone and then back to the meeting. 
“Detective?” he said. 
Arturo looked up from his screen, keeping his expression neutral, not acknowledging the mean grins from the other four ranking detectives in the meeting. Silently, he turned his phone face-down on the meeting table. 
“Thank you,” he said. “Now, the latest stats show a sharp rise in grey-market electronics importing and other tariff-breaking crimes, mostly occurring in open-air market stalls and from sidewalk blankets. I know that many in law enforcement treat this kind of thing as mere hand-to-hand piracy, not worth troubling with, but I want to assure you, gentlemen and lady, that Social Harmony takes these crimes very seriously indeed.” 
“I guess you can,” replied the landlady benevolently. 
And so it happened that the ancient magic of fire was invoked in Lexy’s behalf. Probably, if she and Captain Grey had had their supper in the chilly dining room, they would have been a little chilly, too, and more cautious. They might not have said all that they did say. 
It was an excellent supper, and Captain Grey and Lexy thoroughly appreciated it. They ate with healthy appetites, and they talked. Mrs. Royce, from the kitchen, heard their cheerful, friendly voices, and their laughter, and she didn’t for one moment believe that they had never met before. Listening to them, she wore that benevolent smile once more, and felt sure that she had encountered a very charming little romance. 
It was all Lexy’s doing. It was Lexy’s beautiful talent, to be able to create this atmosphere of honest and happy camaraderie . Before the meal was finished, Captain Grey was talking to her as if they had known each other since childhood, and he didn’t even wonder at it. It seemed perfectly natural. 
"Yes?" 
"Are you utopians of some kind? Making a better world?" 
"By 'you,' you mean 'people who work for Viktor?'" 
He shrugged. 
"I'm a bit of a utopian, I'll admit. But that's not it. You know Henry Ford set up these work-camps in Brazil, 'Fordlandia,' and enforced a strict code of conduct on the rubber plantation workers? He outlawed the caipirinha and replaced it with Tom Collinses, because they were more civilized." 
"And you're saying Viktor wouldn't do that?" 
She waggled her head from side to side, thinking it over. "Probably not. Maybe, if I asked." She covered her mouth as though she'd made an indiscreet admission. 
"Are -- were -- you and he...?" 
She laughed. "Never. It's purely cerebral. Do you know where his money came from?" 
He gave her a look. 
OK, of course you do. But if all you've read is the official history, you'll think he was just a finance guy who made some good bets. It's nothing like it. He played a game against the market, tinkered with the confidence of other traders by taking crazy positions, all bluff, except when they weren't. No one could outsmart him. He could convince you that you were about to miss out on the deal of the century, or that you'd already missed it, or that you were about to walk off onto easy street. Sometimes, he convinced you of something that was real. More often, it was pure bluff, which you'd only find out after you'd done some trade with him that left him with more money than you'd see in your whole life, and you facepalming and cursing yourself for a sucker. When he started doing it to national banks, put a run on the dollar, broke the Fed, well, that's when we all knew that he was someone who was special , someone who could create signals that went right to your hindbrain without any critical interpretation." 
“All right?” Rio asked me, not taking his eyes from Tresting. 
“Sweet of you,” I said, “but I’ve got it covered.” 
Rio nodded. He didn’t lower the shotgun, though. 
Tresting was looking at me, his eyes unreadable, and I relented slightly. “Besides, he wasn’t drawing on me. It’s okay.” 
Rio hesitated a moment longer, and then the sawed-off disappeared whisper quickly into his duster. He stepped carefully around Tresting, still keeping half an eye on him. “You’re late,” he said to me. 
“Ran into some complications.” 
Rio twitched his head at Tresting. “He one of them?” 
“Sort of.” 
“I think the motorcycle gang hit squad I helped run off you has me beat,” Tresting said. I could tell he was trying for lightness, but his tone was strained, and a muscle in his cheek twitched as his eyes flicked back and forth between me and Rio. Rio—you don’t have to know what Rio’s capable of to realize how dangerous he is. People underestimate me sometimes. Rio, on the other hand—the only reason people ever underestimate Rio is a lack of imagination. 
"I was hungry," Emma responds. The corners of her mouth crease in a frown. "I didn't think you'd be up this early." 
"Obviously." Ray gets the impression that Freddy rolls his eyes, but he can't actually see it because he's facing Emma as if she's the only one at the table. "Amah sent me to collect you. You need to return to your quarters." 
"I will." A pause, like defiance. "In a few minutes." 
"That's unacceptable." 
"Leave me alone, Frederick. I said I'll be home shortly." 
Like an asp, Whiston's pale hand darts out and he grips Emma by the arm. He squeezes until his knuckles are white. "Come along, Emma. Let's not create a fuss, okay?"  For an instant, her gaze dashes from Whiston to Ray, a mute appeal in her eyes, then she gasps. "You're hurting me. " 
"You're making me. " 
Ray figures he's got old Freddy by three inches, probably thirty pounds and a skill set that includes the ability to kill trained military personnel who possess a strong desire not to end up dead. And he's tired of glowering at this idiot's back as though he was invisible. Ray hauls himself to his feet, screeching the chair along the tiled deckplate as he rises, and extends a hand which happens to be roughly the size of the circumference Whiston's neck in greeting. 
“Unhinged?” 
“It’s been a trying case,” he said. 
“She’s very...dedicated,” I offered. 
“That ain’t a tenth of it. You know, we both started getting death threats, anonymous, after this whole thing started—not sure if I should be insulted no one’s tried to follow through, by the by—and she always laughed. Said if someone killed her, they might start taking her husband’s death seriously.” 
“Really?” 
“Yeah. Some guy even threatened her son once. She got him a bodyguard and didn’t look back.” 
“Wow.” 
“Yeah.” Tresting leaned back in his chair and closed his eyes. “She’s a trip. Can’t even say she’s the craziest client I ever had, neither, though this is by far the craziest case. Glamorous life of a private eye, huh?” 
“Speaking of, what does a PI license let you do?” I asked, curious. 
“Huh? Well...loiter.” 
“That’s it?” 
“Pretty much.” 
I felt a strong urge to snicker. 
“Though sometimes people see the license and think they have to answer questions,” Tresting amended. “Authority figure and all that.” 
All day, hiding her terror and weakness, talking to Mrs. Royce, sitting at the lunch table and talking and laughing with Captain Grey, trying to make them believe her quite cheerful and untroubled—and all the time perhaps they knew. Perhaps they were humoring her! 
She sprang up and went over to the window. The sun was beginning to sink in a tranquil sky. It had been a beautiful day, but Lexy felt too weary and listless to go out. She remembered now that both Captain Grey and the landlady had urged her to do so, that they had both said it would do her good. Then they must have noted that something was wrong with her. What did they think it was? Did she look— She crossed the room and stood before the mirror. The rays of the setting sun fell upon her hair, turning it to copper and gold. It seemed to her to shine with a strange light about her pallid little face. Her eyes seemed enormous, somber, and terrible. 
She covered her face with her hands and flung herself on the bed, sick and desperate. She could not see any one, could not speak to any one. When a knock came at her loor, she thrust her fingers into her ears and lay there, with her eyes shut tight, trembling from head to foot; but the knocking went on until she could endure it no longer. 
“That’s stupid,” I blurted out. “He’s as good an actor as anyone else.” 
“That’s not what Tyler meant,” Ian said. “We shouldn’t have involved kids in this. Not given the risks.” 
“This whole thing was my idea,” I said. “You think we don’t know the risks? It should be our choice.” 
I couldn’t speak, too stunned by the betrayal. Shad was trust- worthy. Shad was respected. But I was just a kid, one who wasn’t allowed to carry out the plan that was her idea in the first place. 
“That’s a load of garbage,” Zeke said, crumpling up a piece of paper and throwing it at Ian’s head. 
Sarah took charge. “We still have a story to tell. Let’s download that film.” Jason hooked up a USB cable to Nikko’s shirt and copied the video file. We crowded around Sarah’s laptop. As the video started, two people were settling themselves at a table, one of them tall and black and wearing a really nice suit, the other short and white and in a suit that didn’t fit very well. 
“I know her,” I blurted out. “She was one of the cops who wanted to search our apartment. They didn’t have a warrant, so we told them to go away.” Sarah nodded approvingly as the man in the suit started with introductions. 
“I can spare? Felix old pal, I have enough dope here to last a hundred years. This stuff’s going to expire long before it runs out. But are you telling me that the net’s still up?” 
“It’s still up,” he said. “Kind of. That’s what we’ve been doing all week. Keeping it online. It might not last much longer, though.” 
“No,” she said. “I don’t suppose it would.” She set the axe down. “Have you got anything to trade? I don’t need much, but I’ve been trying to keep my spirits up by trading with the neighbors. It’s like playing civilization.” 
“You have neighbors?” 
“At least ten,” she said. “The people in the restaurant across the way make a pretty good soup, even... They cleaned me out of Sterno, though.” 
“You’ve got neighbors and you trade with them?” 
“Well, nominally. It’d be pretty lonely without them. I’ve taken care of whatever sniffles I could. Set a bone—broken wrist. Listen, do you want some Wonder Bread and peanut butter? I have a ton of it. Your friend looks like he could use a meal.” 
“Sit down!” she said, in a singularly unpleasant whisper. “There shall be no scene. Sit down, I tell you!” 
“I won’t!” replied Lexy, but just then the car started forward, and she fell back on the seat. 
“You will come with me,” said Mrs. Enderby. 
That overbearing tone, that grasp on her arm, were very nearly too much for Lexy. She had always been quick-tempered. All the Morans were, and were perversely proud of it, too; but Lexy had learned many lessons in a hard school. She had learned to control her temper, and she did so now. She was silent for a time. 
“All right!” she agreed, at last. “I’ll come. I don’t see what else I can do—now; but after this I’ll have to use my own judgment, Mrs. Enderby.” 
“You have none,” Mrs. Enderby told her calmly. 
Lexy clenched her hands, and again was silent for a moment. 
“I mean—” she began. 
“I know very well what you mean,” said Mrs. Enderby. “You mean that you will keep faith with me no longer. I saw that. You wished to run off and tell your story to some one this afternoon. I stopped that. After this, I cannot stop you any longer. You will tell, but I think no one will listen to you. I shall deny it, and no one will be likely to listen to the word of a discharged employee.” 
Randy waved him silent. "The interrogation in this room flows in one direction, Lawrence. This is not a dialogue." 
"Have you ever noticed that when you're uncomfortable with something, you talk louder and lean forward a little? A lot of people have that tell." 
"Do you work with Securitat data-streams, Lawrence?" 
"I work with large amounts of data, including a lot of material from the Securitat. It's rarely in cleartext, though. Mostly I'm doing sigint -- signals intelligence. I analyze the timing, frequency and length of different kinds of data to see if I can spot anomalies. That's with a lower-case 'a', by the way." He was warming up to the subject now. His face hurt when he talked, but when he thought about what to say, the hurt went away, as did the vision of the cell where he would go next. "It's the kind of thing that works best when you don't know what's in the payload of the data you're looking at. That would just distract me. It's like a magician's trick with a rabbit or a glass of water. You focus on the rabbit or on the water and what you expect of them, and are flummoxed when the magician does something unexpected. If he used pebbles, though, it might seem absolutely ordinary." 
"You listen to me," said Miranda quaveringly. "Take the best place, regardless o' my sickness. I'd like to live long enough to know you'd paid off that mortgage, but I guess I shan't." 
Here she ceased abruptly, having talked more than she had for weeks; and Rebecca stole out of the room, to cry by herself and wonder if old age must be so grim, so hard, so unchastened and unsweetened, as it slipped into the valley of the shadow. 
The days went on, and Miranda grew stronger and stronger; her will seemed unassailable, and before long she could be moved into a chair by the window, her dominant thought being to arrive at such a condition of improvement that the doctor need not call more than once a week, instead of daily; thereby diminishing the bill, that was mounting to such a terrifying sum that it haunted her thoughts by day and dreams by night. 
Little by little hope stole back into Rebecca's young heart. Aunt Jane began to "clear starch" her handkerchiefs and collars and purple muslin dress, so that she might be ready to go to Brunswick at any moment when the doctor pronounced Miranda well on the road to recovery. Everything beautiful was to happen in Brunswick if she could be there by August,—everything that heart could wish or imagination conceive, for she was to be Miss Emily's very own visitor, and sit at table with college professors and other great men. 
I sighed and raised my hands higher. I hate Glocks. 
I was reminded just how much this was a bad plan when I had to let a couple of overzealous, hulking male officers tighten cuffs against my wrists and manhandle me into a police car. Forcing myself into helplessness made me feel exposed, as if acting vulnerable somehow made it so. I suppressed the urge to kick their ribs in, and dearly wished they knew how much self-control it required. 
I mollified myself by calculating escape routes. Particularly ones involving permanent injury to certain meathead cops. 
They drove me to a police station in a caravan of cop cars and jostled me inside. Someone patted me down—again—and they took my fingerprints and mug shots. I kept involuntarily flinching away from it all, from these people who thought they lorded power over me, these people who were prodding and recording and keeping a piece of me here forever. 
Checker better do as he promised. 
The booking officer kept trying to get my name and information, but I ignored her. Finally they brought me into a small, stark interrogation room, handcuffed me to the table, and left me alone, though I was sure someone was keeping an eye on me from behind the long one-way mirror. 
“I saw some blast shields back there,” I tossed to his partner without stopping what I was doing. “Go grab some.” This time she didn’t hesitate before sprinting away. 
The math here wouldn’t be difficult. Just simple division: weight and volume. And then watch like a hawk to see where my darling victim was putting his weight so I could match it. The massively hard part would be the juggling act itself. And fuck, I’d probably pull a muscle. 
Whatever. Man’s life, and all that. Arthur was a bad influence. 
I heaved over the first ammo case. The dimensions of the fire safe gave it a volume of just over five gallons, which would be enough, barely. I poured the cardboard box of ammunition inside, my senses alert to double-check the weight and keep track of where I was at. The rounds tinkled over each other as they filled the bottom of the safe. 
“I’m telling you, this won’t work,” the male agent said again, his young voice hoarse and dry. “Go. Just go.” 
I ignored him. I was too busy updating the calculations and staying alert for any weight irregularities in the ammunition as it streamed in. 
"But you see, I needed to be mad in order to understand more about the shed, Ray. Only through the eye of madness could I go back through the ancient texts and sift through their mythology and their understanding of the duality of creation, and come to understand not what they said, but what they meant. I had to be able to  think like them to understand the assumptions behind the written text. Because they're not just behind it, they illuminate it. " 
Ray interrupts him. "You stopped making sense to me about the time you mentioned Baptists." 
Holcomb frowns back and swipes his hand back and forth across his forehead. "All right. We talked once about the nature of the shed. I assume that you retained enough of that knowledge to serve as a background. In fact, I told you a lot about it, but in that entire two weeks that we were alone, and for several months afterward, what I didn't ask myself was what was Brezhnaya doing"? What did he think he was accomplishing?" 
"Unleashing an attack against the allied forces," Ray answers at once. "Breaking morale, punishing sympathizers. Creating a spirituo- terrorist weapon." 
“What?” Everyone tensed. 
“We didn’t get his stuff from the shed.” 
Wheeze groaned. “Oh, yeah. I had a backpack and a bedroll. 
Some trash, too. I wasn’t being as careful as I should have been. 
Wasn’t sure there would be any point.” 
Nikko looked at Bree and they both got out and took flash- lights back into the woods. 
“What’s going on, anyway?” Wheeze asked me. 
“I’m working with some friends to turn the tables on the feds. 
Something a little more subversive than the protest, though that turned out to be actually bigger than I expected.” 
“I liked it on Facebook. Just kidding.” He gave me a lopsided grin. “Though I looked at the Solidarity site before I had to bail and wrecked my phone, which is how I knew where to send Danny. Nothing like having a loaded grain hopper roll over a phone to make it easy to disassemble it into small parts.” 
“I’m just glad it wasn’t you getting disassembled.” 
“No kidding. One kid I used to travel with, he lost a leg. I wasn’t there when it happened, but I heard about it.” 
He held out a crumpled Pizza Hut flyer in his hand. “Go on, 
take it.” He sounded irritated and impatient. Like, why can’t you follow my simple instructions? Like he wasn’t too crazy about being in a hostile crowd of hipster college students. 
I took it and turned it over. I saw enough to stuff it into my pocket. “Thanks. Is he — “You just tell him I done what I said I’d do.” 
“But—” 
“I owed him, but we’re even now.” 
“But where — ” 
“He got it all wrote down, there. I’m done. Don’t need to be round so many damned cops and all these hoity-toity . . .” He stumbled off, angrily muttering the kind of words Monica doesn’t let me say. People made way for him, as if he was leper and they didn’t want to come in contact with his diseased body and have their fingers fall off like zombies. After all, they were busy with important social justice issues and didn’t want someone so broken down and toothless get in the way. 
Okay, I admit I wasn’t any better than the activists who looked disgusted by somebody who was actually poor. I felt kind of bad about it, but so far as I could tell he didn’t give a damn about the opinion of anyone there, including me. 
The intern, a young black guy, led me past a row of gurneys and into a private room at the rear of the huge space. Lou was bandaged all around his chest and hooked up to an IV and a monitor. He looked better, but I wasn't sure he'd be ready for what I was about to tell him. 
"Hey, how're you feeling?" I asked as I walked in, trying to seem upbeat. 
"Fucking cops." He was boiling, his face actually red. "Where do they get them these days? McDonald's rejects?" 
"Easy, don't get your blood pressure up." I reached over and touched his brow. It felt like he had a mild temperature. "Let's all just calm down and try to think rationally." 
"Yeah, I'm thinking rationally. You saw that fax I got from Williams." 
"You think that was Alex Goddard seated next to her, right?" 
"Who else? When she was in her moonbeam phase, she must have heard about him and gone up there and ended up in his clutches. But why did she let him take her down to—?" 
"He told me he has a clinic in Central America. He called it 'a place of miracles.' And then Colonel Ramos shows up, part of the Guatemalan diplomatic corps. Put two and two together. That's got to be where they're taking her." 
It's funny, but when she was talking about my getting "privileges" it scared me into submission. I felt like I'd done something to end up where I was, like maybe it was partially my fault, like I could do something to change it. 
But as soon as she switched to this BS about "safety" and "security," my spine came back. "Lady," I said, "you're talking about attacking my home, but as far as I can tell, you're the only one who's attacked me lately. I thought I lived in a country with a constitution. I thought I lived in a country where I had rights . You're talking about defending my freedom by tearing up the Bill of Rights." 
A flicker of annoyance passed over her face, then went away. "So melodramatic, Marcus. No one's attacked you. You've been detained by your country's government while we seek details on the worst terrorist attack ever perpetrated on our nation's soil. You have it within your power to help us fight this war on our nation's enemies. You want to preserve the Bill of Rights? Help us stop bad people from blowing up your city. Now, you have exactly thirty seconds to unlock that phone before I send you back to your cell. We have lots of other people to interview today." 
"Maybe not so much anymore. Maybe my customers come here because they know I love freedom too. I am making sign for window. Maybe other stores do the same. I hear the ACLU will sue them for this." 
"You've got all my business from now on," I said. I meant it. I reached into my pocket. "Um, I don't have any cash, though." 
He pursed his lips and nodded. "Many peoples say the same thing. Is OK. You give today's money to the ACLU." 
In two minutes, the Turk and I had exchanged more words than we had in all the time I'd been coming to his shop. I had no idea he had all these passions. I just thought of him as my friendly...  I shook his hand and when I left his store, I felt like he and I had joined a team. A secret team. 
I'd missed two days of school but it seemed like I hadn't missed much class. They'd shut the school on one of those days while the city scrambled to recover. The next day had been devoted, it seemed, to mourning those missing and presumed dead. The newspapers published biographies of the lost, personal memorials. The Web was filled with these capsule obituaries, thousands of them. 
"The subjunctive mood, past perfect tense of the verb 'to know.'" 
"Oh, it is the saddest tense," sighed Rebecca with a little break in her voice; "nothing but IFS, IFS, IFS! And it makes you feel that if they only HAD known, things might have been better!" 
Miss Dearborn had not thought of it before, but on reflection she believed the subjunctive mood was a "sad" one and "if" rather a sorry "part of speech." 
"Give me some more examples of the subjunctive, Rebecca, and that will do for this afternoon," she said. 
"If I had not loved mackerel I should not have been thirsty;" said Rebecca with an April smile, as she closed her grammar. "If thou hadst loved me truly thou wouldst not have stood me up in the corner. If Samuel had not loved wickedness he would not have followed me to the water pail." 
"And if Rebecca had loved the rules of the school she would have controlled her thirst," finished Miss Dearborn with a kiss, and the two parted friends. 
The little schoolhouse on the hill had its moments of triumph as well as its scenes of tribulation, but it was fortunate that Rebecca had her books and her new acquaintances to keep her interested and occupied, or life would have gone heavily with her that first summer in Riverboro. She tried to like her aunt Miranda (the idea of loving her had been given up at the moment of meeting), but failed ignominiously in the attempt. She was a very faulty and passionately human child, with no aspirations towards being an angel of the house, but she had a sense of duty and a desire to be good,—respectably, decently good. Whenever she fell below this self-imposed standard she was miserable. She did not like to be under her aunt's roof, eating bread, wearing clothes, and studying books provided by her, and dislike her so heartily all the time. She felt instinctively that this was wrong and mean, and whenever the feeling of remorse was strong within her she made a desperate effort to please her grim and difficult relative. 
Arthur hesitated. “Not sure.” 
“You suspect she’s involved in this?” 
“Think it’s more likely she’s just a touch different from most people. A woman that age arranging to get herself bashed in the head? Don’t jibe.” 
“Maybe her plan went wrong,” I said, shutting the door and putting on the stupid seatbelt to mollify Arthur. 
“Maybe,” said Arthur, “but my gut says she really cares about Sonya. I remember back—she was more than an advisor; she was Sonya’s mentor. And it seems that ain’t changed. They’re as close as family, you can see it.” 
I couldn’t, but human interaction wasn’t exactly my forte. “Where to now, then?” 
“Well, after this morning, first let’s figure if we got a tail, and— wait.” 
I froze, the key hovering next to the ignition. 
“Your seat’s different,” said Arthur. “Don’t press the pedals, but tell me if I’m right.” 
I stretched out my foot next to the brake. He was right. The seat had moved back by almost an inch. 
“Well, crap,” I said. 
Arthur reached up and jammed a key into the housing of the rearview mirror to pull it apart. He pried the whole mirror off the windshield and dropped it between his feet, pushing at it with the side of one boot so he could get a view under his own seat. “I’m clear.” Very slowly and carefully, he leaned across the console and put his head down by my feet, where he could see under mine. “Yup. Car bomb.” 
“If it was, it’s my business. It’s my life, and I say it’s nothing. Drop it.” 
“It is your life, but—Cas, please.” 
“Oh, come on!” I cried. The exclamation ripped out of me too raw, the emotions from the past twenty-four hours tearing forth in a torrent. “Why are you making such a big deal about this? Haven’t you ever forgotten anything? Like, who was the first person you kissed? What was your first computer? The first guy you ever saw play Doctor Who? See?” 
“Charlene Gilligan, an IBM 286 in my foster parents’ basement—and the first actor I ever saw as the Doctor was Peter Davison,” said Checker. 
I digested that. I hadn’t expected him to be able to answer. “You must have a freakishly good memory.” 
“I don’t.” 
“Then clearly you have a skewed sense of priorities, if that’s what you’re using your brain space for.” I put as much snideness into the words as I could. 
“What do you use yours for, then?” He didn’t sound offended, only a little queer. 
“Important stuff.” I pulled away from him, turning over. “Job details. Things I might actually need.” 
"Hey, check out Orion," he said finally leaning back, an easy, delicious finger aimed at that sprawling constellation. I looked up at the canopy of stars, and sure enough, the hunter and his sword dominated the starry sky above like a stalwart centurion, guarding us. "I always know I'm in the tropics when it's right overhead." 
"Honey, this has been wonderful," I declared. "Thank you so much." I moved around and kissed him. "It's exactly the attitude adjustment I needed." 
"Well"—he smiled back—"now I guess we've got some organizing to do. So tell me everything you left out back there at the hotel. I know you were holding off." 
I was feeling increasingly hyper, probably from the high- octane chocolate, but I proceeded to recount all my findings about Alex Goddard and Quetzal Manor. Then I moved on to Colonel Ramos and how he'd threatened Carly and me about my film. Finally, I told him my deep belief that Colonel Ramos and a couple of his goons were obviously the ones who'd roughed up Lou and taken Sarah. 
"We're a gigafund," he said. He managed to make it sound like a boast. 
She shook her head. "You poor, poor boy. How are you going to spend a billion dollars in $300,000 increments? You'll be sitting on three quarters of that by the time you cash out the fund." 
"It's the smallest amount that a franchisee can take," he said. 
"Well, sure. The parent company's got what, half a trillion under management? Don't look so surprised. Yes, I keep up to date on the shenanigans you Mighty Morphin' Power Brokers get up to in Silly Valley. No wonder they're franchising! But the secret is, big money is dumb money. I can spend a hundred bucks so smart that I turn it into fifteen hundred. You look like a smart kid, you could probably make a thousand. But you'll never do the same trick with your billion in other people's money. Whoever sold you that franchise conned you, sonny." 
He looked glum. 
"Oh, cheer up," she said. "You're a young man. Getting shafted by VCs builds character. Look at me!" 
He...  what he was going to ask without having to wait. She named the price. "But for you, a ten percent discount." 
“I came here for a definite purpose,” she told him. “I haven’t forgotten that, and I’m not likely to forget it.” 
“I know,” said he, “but—” 
“But,” interrupted Lexy, “I know very well what you’re thinking—that it’s a wild-goose chase, and that I’m a young idiot. Isn’t that it?” 
“I don’t mean that,” he protested; “only—don’t you see?” 
“I don’t!” Lexy grimly denied. “You’ve thought over the talk we had last night, and you’ve decided that it was all nonsense.” 
“No, Miss Moran—not nonsense; but we were both a bit tired then, and perhaps a bit overwrought.” 
“All right!” said Lexy. “Don’t go on! No—please drop it. I’ve talked too much, anyhow. From now on I’m not going to talk to any one about my little job. I’m going to go ahead in my own way, alone.” 
“You can’t,” said Captain Grey firmly. “I’m here, you know.” 
This did not appease Lexy, and she remained curt and silent all the rest of the way. For a couple of miles the taxi went on along a broad, smooth highway; then it turned off down a rough lane, bordered by dark woodland, and entirely deserted. The rain drummed loud on the leather top of the cab, the wind came sighing through the gaunt pines and the slender, shivering birches; but when there was a lull, she heard another sound, a sound familiar to her from childhood and yet always strange, always heart-stirring—the dim, unceasing thunder of the sea. 
I took a deep breath and Mom got me a glass of water. I sat on the edge of my bed and she sat in my desk chair and I told her everything. 
Everything. 
Well, most of it. 
At first Mom looked shocked, then outraged, and finally she gave up altogether and just let her jaw hang open as I took her through the interrogation, pissing myself, the bag over my head, Darryl. I showed her the note. 
"Why --?" 
In that single syllable, every recrimination I'd dealt myself in the night, every moment that I'd lacked the bravery to tell the world what it was really about, why I was really fighting, what had really inspired the Xnet. 
I sucked in a breath. 
"They told me I'd go to jail if I talked about it. Not just for a few days. Forever. I was -- I was scared." 
Mom sat with me for a long time, not saying anything. Then, "What about Darryl's father?" 
She might as well have stuck a knitting needle in my chest. Darryl's father. He must have assumed that Darryl was dead, long dead. 
And wasn't he? After the DHS has held you illegally for three months, would they ever let you go? 
"Dinner. Goodnight." 
He brings up the data again. Digital representations of trace tissue samples that he's been over a hundred times, bits of non-Micah DNA and mitochondrial RNA that have been force grown from loose clusters of sticky foreign cells, scoured, scanned, splatted against a stupid number of identification loci along the relevant helical strands. He's taken the profile results and crammed them through every known DNA database from military to medical to criminal, each database assaulted separately, then aggregated, then in every conceivable combination. 
He's been all over this data, and there's nothing here. Or maybe there is something here, and he's just not seeing it because he's a hardware guy, he's a techie. He is anything but a forensic scientist who knows what nuances are likely to be missed. And he's precluded by case sensitivity from enlisting an actual forensic scientist because if he missed something, and that something happens to be easy for the trained eye to spot (as well as perfectly understandable given the proximity of Frederick Whiston's DNA to the victim's DNA), then the forensic scientist in question is going to get the hit Ray is missing. And when the match comes up as Frederick's or Emma's or anyone else's associated with the Whiston household, it will only be a matter of hours before everyone knows that the EED is investigating the Whistons in the first place. The tabloids don't care that it is just as vital in any investigation to rule suspects out as it is to rule them in-only that celebrities are mentioned in conjunction with the investigation in the first place. 
Ray swallows hard, tries to wet his mouth, but his tongue only makes a clicking noise against his teeth. 
"Don't puke all over my evidence," Becker says in his ear. 
Ray turns to him, a welcome excuse to tear his eyes away from the corpse. "Holy shit." 
"There's nothing holy about it." Becker grunts and makes an obvious display of not looking at the thing he's talking about. "So what do you think?" 
"I think it's a lousy way to kill a kid. " The acerbic distance he has cultivated as a professional soldier used to the presence of violent death is fully in place, and as always, he hates himself for it, if only just a little. 
Becker is all business, sporting his game face, grim and determined. He has the same hollow depth to his gaze that Ray imagines in his own eyes. "It's a lousy way to kill anybody. Messy. Pointless." 
Pointless is a good word for it, for a whole host of things, really. Why he called Ray, for example. 
"What's going on, Rich?" 
The Chief kneels down by the corpse. He has a ballpoint pen in his hand, and he uses it like a laser pointer. "If this is a crime of rage, or an abduction, I expect to find contusions here—" He indicates the wrists. "Or around the throat. If the kid struggles at all, I assume that I'll find marks on the face, or bruises on the neck. Or I expect to find indications of epidermal punctures where the psycho jacked the kid up with meds to keep him docile. I've got none of that. And you know what else I don't have?" 
Her mum dragged her up to the bathroom and went at her with a flannel and a bar of soap and hot water until she felt boiled and raw. 
“What is this mess?” her mum said. 
“Lilian, leave off,” her dad said, quietly. “Come out into the hall for a moment, please.” 
The conversation was too quiet to hear and Anda didn’t want to, anyway: she was concentrating too hard on not crying—her ears hurt . 
Her mum enfolded her shoulders in her soft hands again. “Oh, darling, I’m sorry. It’s a skin condition, your father tells me, Acanthosis Nigricans—he saw it in a TV special. We’ll see the doctor about it tomorrow after school. Are you all right?” 
“I’m fine,” she said, twisting to see if she could see the “dirt” on the back of her neck in the mirror. It was hard because it was an awkward placement—but also because she didn’t like to look at her face and her soft extra chin, and she kept catching sight of it. 
She went back to her room to google Acanthosis Nigricans. 
› A condition involving darkened, thickened skin. Found in the folds of skin at the base of the back of the neck, under the arms, inside the elbow and at the waistline. 
Then the panels around him, even the security panels, dash from green or yellow to red. Blinding red, like little glares of malice. And immediately behind the light is a resonant, assaulting buzz of Klaxons. Pause, 
buzz, pause, buzz, stirringly reminiscent of the staccato fire alarm bursts his elementary school had used for tornado drills. 
That alarm must have lit up every terminal on the ship's network, because he's immediately got Becker screaming in his ear. 
"What is going on down there, Marlowe?" 
Apparently he's not the only one who finds the blat of the Klaxons a bit unnerving. 
"Tell me you've got more engineers to run the reactor, Becker." Though he isn't certain exactly what engineers could do to resolve this particular malfunction. It more than likely was not the sort of scenario they covered in school. 
"All of the engineers are on that deck," Becker rumbles.  "Then all of the engineers appear to be dead. And the shed have infiltrated the reactor cores. I'm way out of my depth here, Chief." In the absence of something constructive, he does what he can do, which is to get Becker's sub-network id and patch the images from the security station straight to the remote terminals on Omicron. It's the only way he knows to make Becker understand. He's greeted in return with a barrage of silence. 
I sat back and rubbed my eyes. Tresting’s wild conspiracy theories were becoming a lot harder to dismiss. 
Checker swore softly, interrupting my thoughts. “Arthur. Wake up,” he said. 
I turned to call to Tresting, but the PI had woken at the sound of his name. He came back over to stand behind me. “What is it?” 
Checker reached out and smacked the side of a screen I couldn’t see. “The GPS tracker. We lost the signal.” 
Tresting cursed as well and dug into his pocket, pulling out the receiver to check for himself. He cursed again. “What happened?” 
“Dunno,” said Checker. “Could be a malfunction. Could be interference. Could be they went down in the Gulf of Mexico.” His attention was still on one of his other monitors, his fingers clicking so rapidly on a mouse that he resembled a telegraph operator. “Me, I’d bet on the cynical side. Even if our girl passed the tracker and it landed in a toilet, it still should’ve kept the signal on the plane for us.” 
Tresting sank into his office chair. “After all that, she disappears.” 
“We’d like to ask you a few questions about your brother,” 
Bobble-head said, beaming a fake smile. 
“Okay,” I said. Monica opened her mouth, but closed it when I added, “Just as soon as my lawyer can get here. She’s pretty busy, 
though. May take a while.” 
Bobble-head’s smile got that condescending “you don’t under- stand, you stupid kid” look. “Aw, there’s no need for that. Your brother’s got himself in some trouble, is all, and we just need to straighten some things out. You want to help Wilson, don’t you?” 
“Of course.” 
“Super. We just need a little background. Have you spent much time at that house he’s been living in? You know any of those friends of his?” 
“Those are questions.” 
He raised his eyebrows. Well, duh. 
“I’m not answering any questions without my lawyer present.” 
He shook his head, grinning, like I had just cracked a joke. “A lawyer? You don’t need a lawyer.” 
“I also don’t need to answer your questions without a lawyer present.” 
“Do you know where Lawrence Delaney is?” The woman wasn’t smiling. 
“I promise, rotten,” he said. 
“I love you, Daddy,” she said in her most syrupy voice. He gave her a squeeze on the shoulder and a slap on the butt. 
He opened the door again. Benny was there, imperturbable. Unlike the UNATS robots, he was odorless, and perfectly silent. 
“I’m going to go to the toilet and then make...  
“I would be happy to assist in any way possible.” 
“I can wipe myself, thanks,” Arturo said. He washed his face twice and tried to rinse away the flavor left behind by whatever had shat in his mouth while he was unconscious. There was a splayed toothbrush in a glass by the sink, and if it was his wife’s—and whose else could it be?—it wouldn’t be the first time he’d shared a toothbrush with her. But he couldn’t bring himself to do it. Instead, he misted some dentifrice onto his fingertip and rubbed his teeth a little. 
There was a hairbrush by the sink, too, with short mousy hairs caught in it. Some of them were grey, but they were still familiar enough. He had to stop himself from smelling the hairbrush. 
like when he had bronchitis and everyone started calling him Wheeze. “I was getting really scared.” 
“Me, too.” I reached for his hand and gave it a squeeze. He squeezed back. 
“Not looking forward to prison, though. How’s your brother doing?” 
“I don’t know. They haven’t let me talk to him yet.” 
“That bites. He’s not cut out for the joint, you know?” 
“Totally.” 
“Sorry I made you come all the way down here when you have so much on your mind.” 
“That’s okay. You know that extreme privacy we practiced? It’s coming in handy We’ve been a pretty good team, actually, figuring out how to get here without leaving a trail or getting caught.” 
“Yet,” he said, then gave me a twisted smile to take the sting out. 
“It was a lot of fun, hanging out with you. I didn’t know how much I’d miss that. I mean, it’s not like I have friends to spare, you know?” 
“Me either.” 
“Well, there’s that guy who gave me your note.” 
He laughed. “That was a long shot. I mean, he stopped and helped, and that was awesome. The bulls would have found me, 
“Yes, Mrs. Enderby,” answered Lexy. 
She sprang out of bed and began to dress, filled with an unreasoning sense of haste. It wasn’t a dream, then—it was true. Caroline had gone, and there was something Lexy must do for her. She could not have explained what this something was, but it oppressed and worried her. She could not rid herself of the feeling that she was not being loyal to Caroline. 
“And yet,” she thought, “I had to tell Mrs. Enderby she wasn’t there. I suppose I ought to have told her about that telephone call, too, but I hate to do it! I know Caroline wouldn’t like me to; and what good can it do, anyhow? Whoever it was, he didn’t know where she was. It was the queerest thing—a man asking, ‘ For God’s sake, where’s Miss Enderby?’ when she wasn’t here! No, Mrs. Enderby is wrong. Caroline hasn’t just gone away of her own accord. She’s not that sort of girl. Something has happened!” 
Lexy finished dressing and went into Caroline’s room. In the gay April sunshine, that dainty room seemed almost unbearably forlorn. 
"I remember," Ray says, scowling. 
It may be that Holcomb remembers it the same way. A fleeting shadow, like pain or guilt, clouds his features. 
He continues, "I was a grand fool then, Ray. I admit that. But I was a fool because I came from a rational tradition. Our culture, our society, put away a belief in devils around the time of the Salem witch trials. We responded to our own penchant for hysteria by denying its source, by embracing science and tactual reality and the physical world as a singular, dominant principle. We threw out the baby with the bath water, as it were. 
"After Ba'dai, I was insane for quite some time. I won't pretend that I was anything else. I have distinct memories of babbling to you about things I'm sure neither one of us understood at the time. But I wasn't insane in the traditional sense. I was achieving some sort of radical reorientation of consciousness. I was developing a perception of the dual nature of existence, with all that such a transformation entails. You know what that looks like, don't you? What it means? You've seen filthy old sinners converted to good Baptist standing, struck by Grace, transmogrified into Sunday-suit wearing zealots who see the finger of the Divine in every decision, every coincidence, every conversation. Conversion to a new paradigm is the introduction to a vast and terrible unexplored country. And turning your back on accepted reality— the reality that the mass of humanity has created and agreed upon— is the definition of madness. 
“I do not mean to be rude,” said Halliday, “but Arthur does not grasp the level of depth and complexity in my field—” 
“Liar,” I said. “You do mean to be rude. Go on, say what you’re thinking.” 
She finally turned to regard me, folding her hands on the desk in front of her. “Miss...Miss Russell,” she said, the title only slightly questioning, “I know personally everyone in the same line of research as myself. You must understand how specialized areas of higher math are. Even doctorates in the same general area would require a great deal of study to understand what—” 
“I read all the papers you’ve published to date last night,” I said. 
She closed her mouth. 
“The Internet is a wonderful invention, isn’t it?” I said, deliberately misunderstanding her surprise. “Nice work on the new encryption algorithm using prime roots of unity to approximate randomness. That’s a clever trick.” 
Halliday’s voice tightened. “An elementary understanding of—” 
“For God’s sake, Sonya,” said Arthur from behind me, low and rough. “You told me you needed someone who understood your work. Let us help you.” 
"He's a sovereign...  island, one of those little Baltic countries. On the other side of the international vowel line. Mxlplx or something." 
"Dead people become corporations. They get managed by boards of directors who act predictably, if not rationally. Living people, they're flamboyant . Seismic. Unpredictable. But. On the other hand." He waggled his eyebrows. 
"On the other hand, they buy things." 
"Once in a very long while, they do." 
Leon's life was all about discipline. He'd heard a weight-loss guru once explain that the key to maintaining a slim figure was to really "listen to your body" and only eat until it signaled that it was full. Leon had listened to his body. It wanted three entire pepperoni and mushroom pizzas every single day, plus a rather large...  kind you could make in your kitchen with an antique Hamilton Beech machine in avocado-colored plastic, served up in a tall red anodized aluminum cup. Leon's body was extremely verbose on what it wanted him to shovel into it. 
“Oh!” he said, when she had done; and again there was silence for a time. “Does she still want to go on with the thing—marrying me, I mean?” he asked finally, in a queer, flat tone. 
“No,” said Lexy pleasantly. “No—she does not.” 
“Oh!” he said again, with undisguised relief. “Well, then—it’s all right, then!” 
“You don’t seem to be much surprised,” said Lexy. “Don’t you think it’s the most extraordinary story you ever heard?” 
“Well, you see—I’m a bit tired,” he explained. “I haven’t grasped it all yet; only, if she doesn’t want to marry me now, Lexy, dear, will you?” 
At last Lexy could do what she had longed to do for the last half hour—she could stroke down his ruffled hair. 
And this, as far as they were concerned, was the last act and the fitting climax of the play. They were ready now for the curtain to rise upon another play; but there were other people not so young, or not so sturdy, for whom the first drama was not so readily dismissed. 
There was Captain Grey, who was never to see his sister now, never to know if she had really wanted him and needed him. He did not soon forget what had happened at the Tower. 
For an instant she hesitated. 
“Please do tell me,” she said at length. “I’d be glad to help, if I can.” 
“It’s this,” he said. “Do you mind if I smoke? Thanks!” 
He took a cigarette case from his pocket. As he struck a match, she could see his face very clearly in the sudden flame; and, for no reason at all, she pitied him. 
“It’s this,” he said again. “It’s about my sister.” 
“The sister you’ve never seen?” 
The sensation of dread had gone, and she felt only the liveliest interest. She wanted very much to hear about Captain Grey’s sister. 
“It wasn’t quite true to say I’d never seen her,” he explained, in his painstaking way. “I have, you know; but not since I was six years old and she was a baby. Our mother died when Muriel was born, out in India. An aunt took the poor little kid to the States with her, and I stayed out there with my father.” 
He drew on his cigarette for a minute. 
“She’s twenty-one now,” he said. “Last picture I had of her was when she was fourteen or so. A pretty kid—a bit more than pretty—what you’d call lovely.” 
She pointed to herself. “Valentine,” she said. 
He shook his head. He was the picture of moroseness. “Withnail,” he said. 
“Pleased to make your acquaintance, Withnail,” she said in his language, another useful phrase culled from the cine, though she suspected she was pronouncing it all wrong. She held out her hand to shake his. He holstered his handgun and shook her hand. 
“I have to go, Withnail.” She couldn’t say this in his language, but she spoke slowly and as clearly as she could. 
He shook his head again. She covered his hand on her arm with her own and gave it a squeeze. 
“To save my family,” she said. “I’m on a mission for your side anyway. Let me go, Withnail.” She gave his hand another squeeze. Slowly, he released her arm. 
He was very handsome, she saw now, with a good chin and sensuous lips. She’d never kissed a boy and she’d be dead in four days and a little more. Or maybe she’d be dead that afternoon, if she couldn’t get back into her own trenches. 
She put her hand on the back of his neck and pulled his face to hers and gave him a dry, hard kiss on those pouting lips. It made her blood sing, and she gave him a hug, too, pressing her body to him. He kissed her back after a moment, surprised. His tongue probed at her closed lips and she pulled away, then for a crazy moment she thought of biting him and giving him a dose of zombiism to spread to his comrades in the trenches with him. But that wouldn’t be right. They were friends now. 
“OK then. I don’t know either. But the money’s good. I don’t care. Hell, probably it’s two rich gamers who pay their butlers to craft for them all day. One’s fucking with the other one and paying us.” 
“You really think that?” 
Lucy sighed a put-upon, sophisticated, American sigh. “Look at it this way. Most of the world is living on like a dollar a day. I spend five dollars every day on a frappuccino. Some days, I get two! Dad sends mom three thousand a month in child-support—that’s a hundred bucks a day. So if a day’s money here is a hundred...  my frappuccino is worth like five hundred dollars . And I buy two or three every day. 
“And we’re not rich! There’s craploads of rich people who wouldn’t think twice about spending five...  you think a hotdog and a Coke go for on the space station? A thousand bucks! 
“So that’s what I think is going on. There’s someone out there, some Saudi or Japanese guy or Russian mafia kid who’s so rich that this is just chump change for him, and he’s paying us to mess around with some other rich person. To them,...  a day to craft—I mean, sew—t-shirts. What’s a couple hundred bucks to...  about it. It made a kind of sense. She’d been on hols in Bratislava where they got a posh hotel room for ten quid—less than she was spending every day on sweeties and fizzy drinks. 
She laughed. “Sysadmins don’t take holidays.” 
“This one will,” he said. “Promise.” 
“Oh that he is,” she said. She hung up, and he piloted the car into the data-center lot, badging in and peeling up a bleary eyelid to let the retinal scanner get a good look at his sleep-depped eyeball. 
He stopped at the machine to get himself a guarana/medafonil power-bar and a cup of...  clean-room sippy-cup. He wolfed down the bar...  inner door read his hand-geometry and size him up for a moment. It sighed open and gusted the airlock’s load of positively pressurized air over him as he passed finally to the inner sanctum. 
It was bedlam. The cages were designed to let two or three sysadmins maneuver around them at a time. Every other inch of cubic space was given over to humming racks of servers and routers and drives. Jammed among them were no fewer than twenty other sysadmins. It was a regular convention of black tee-shirts with inexplicable slogans, bellies overlapping belts with phones and multitools. 
Halberd. Why had I just thought that? 
The word pinged me like a fragment of another forgotten dream, a half-buried shred of awareness. 
Halberd and Pithica, the memo had said, the one Anton had given me a lifetime ago. But no, something else—the word poked at me, itching, an irritating nub that wouldn’t go away, echoing against the edges of my mind. 
An echo in Dawna’s voice? Her image swam in my memory, standing tall above me, blurred in a thousand pixelated layers. Her hands on my face, reaching into my brain—I could hear her voice, but the words overlapped in a jumbled mass. 
Was I remembering something she had said while we were fighting? As she was shattering me? 
Fear clenched at me. I started digging through the mess in the flat for a scrap of paper, tossing bottles and food wrappers and dirty clothes to the side while I repeated the word in my head over and over, afraid it would fade away again before I snatched the chance to write it down. 
The sentences floated in front of my vision: mad, mocking, absurd. They meant nothing. 
Somewhere in my closet was a shrink-wrapped box containing one still-sealed, mint-in-package Xbox Universal. Every Xbox has been sold way below cost -- Microsoft makes most of its money charging games companies money for the right to put out Xbox games -- but the Universal was the first Xbox that Microsoft decided to give away entirely for free. 
Last Christmas season, there'd been poor losers on every corner dressed as warriors from the Halo series, handing out bags of these game-machines as fast as they could. I guess it worked -- everyone says they sold a whole butt-load of games. Naturally, there were countermeasures to make sure you only played games from companies that had bought licenses from Microsoft to make them. 
Hackers blow through those countermeasures. The Xbox was cracked by a kid from MIT who wrote a best-selling book about it, and then the 360 went down, and then the short-lived Xbox Portable (which we all called the "luggable" -- it weighed three pounds!) succumbed. The Universal was supposed to be totally bulletproof. The high school kids who broke it were Brazilian Linux hackers who lived in a favela -- a kind of squatter's slum. 
There were all kinds of great suggestions for AbusesOfAuthority coming in; hundreds of little and big ones, pictures and audio. The meme was spreading. 
It spread. The next morning there were even more. Someone started a new blog called AbusesOfAuthority that collected hundreds more. The pile grew. We competed to find the juiciest stories, the craziest pictures. 
The deal with my parents was that I'd eat breakfast with them every morning and talk about the projects I was doing. They liked that I was reading Kerouac. It had been a favorite book of both of theirs and it turned out there was already a copy on the bookcase in my parents' room. My dad brought it down and I flipped through it. There were passages marked up with pen, dog-eared pages, notes in the margin. My dad had really loved this book. 
It made me remember a better time, when my Dad and I had been able to talk for five minutes without shouting at each other about terrorism, and we had a great breakfast talking about the way that the novel was plotted, all the crazy adventures. 
<Falstaff> N00000 <inky> how many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? 
<ferret> grooooaaaaaaan not that again. 
<callmecheese> **light bulb**. It's two words . 
<Wheeze> I'll bite, how many? 
<inky> Zero. It's a hardware problem. HAHAHA <Wheeze> hahaha groan. Full disclosure, I don't code and the only hardware I fix is small motors and manual typewriters. I'm not really a computer guy. 
<ferret> No problem, if Shad's friend then welcome . 
“So why aren’t we winning the war?” 
“Because you’re a corrupt dictatorship, that’s why,” he said. “Your soldiers are demoralized. Your robots are insane.” 
“You live in a country where it is illegal to express certain mathematics in software, where state apparatchiks regulate all innovation, where inconvenient science is criminalized, where whole avenues of experimentation and research are shut down in the service of a half-baked superstition about the moral qualities of your three laws, and you call my home corrupt? Arturo, what happened to you? You weren’t always this susceptible to the Big Lie.” 
“And you didn’t use to be the kind of woman who abandoned her family,” he said. 
“The reason we’re not winning the war is that we don’t want to hurt people, but we do want to destroy your awful, stupid state. So we fight to destroy as much of your materiel as possible with as few casualties as possible. 
“You live in a failed state, Arturo. In every field, you lag Eurasia and CAFTA: medicine, art, literature, physics; All of them are subsets of computational science and your computational science is more superstition than science. I should know. In Eurasia, I have collaborators, some of whom are human, some of whom are positronic, and some of whom are a little of both—” 
He located an online form and wrote out the details of his conversation with Kelly like he was filing a bug report, his fingers fast, his description complete, and then he hit SUBMIT. 
Van had read over his shoulder. “Felix—” he began. 
“God,” Felix said. He was sitting on the floor of the cage and he slowly pulled himself upright. Van took the laptop and tried some news sites, but they were all timing out. Impossible to say if it was because something terrible was happening or because the network was limping under the superworm. 
“I need to get home,” Felix said. 
“I’ll drive you,” Van said. “You can keep calling your wife.” 
They made their way to the elevators. One of the building’s few windows was there, a thick, shielded porthole. They peered through it as they waited for the elevator. Not much traffic for a Wednesday. Were there more police cars than usual? 
“ Oh my God —” Van pointed. 
The CN Tower, a giant white-elephant needle of a building loomed to the east of them. It was askew, like a branch stuck in wet sand. Was it moving? It was. It was heeling over, slowly, but gaining speed, falling northeast toward the financial district. In a second, it slid over the tipping point and crashed down. They felt the shock, then heard it, the whole building rocking from the impact. A cloud of dust rose from the wreckage, and there was more thunder as the world’s tallest freestanding structure crashed through building after building. 
“Welcome to ExcuseClub! There are 43 members on the network this morning. You have five excuses to your credit. Press one to redeem an excuse—” She toned one. “Press one if you need an adult—” Tone . “Press one if you need a woman; press two if you need a man—” Tone . “Press one if your excuse should be delivered by your doctor; press two for your spiritual representative; press three for your case-worker; press four for your psycho-health specialist; press five for your son; press six for your father—” Tone . “You have selected to have your excuse delivered by your father. Press one if this excuse is intended for your case-worker; press two for your psycho-health specialist; press three for your principal—” Tone . “Please dictate your excuse at the sound of the beep. When you have finished, press the pound key.” 
“Press one to hear your message; press two to have your message dispatched to a network-member.” Tone . 
“Thank you.” 
The pen-trace data scrolled up Arturo’s phone—number called, originating number, call-time. This was the third time he’d caught his daughter at this game, and each time, the pen-trace data had been useless, a dead-end lead that terminated with a phone-forwarding service tapped into one of the dodgy offshore switches that the blessed blasted UNATS brass had recently acquired on the cheap to handle the surge of mobile telephone calls. Why couldn’t they just stick to UNATS Robotics equipment, like the good old days? Those Oceanic switches had more back-doors than a speakeasy, trade agreements be damned. They were attractive nuisances, invitations to criminal activity. 
"This whole thing doesn't sound like her," he went on. "Know what I think? She was being held down there against her will." 
My heart went out to him, and I reached over and took the locket for a moment, feeling the strong "SRC" engraved on its heart-shaped face. "Lou, she's going to come out of it. And when she does, she'll probably explain everything. She's going to be okay any day now, I've got a hunch. A gut feeling." 
I had a gut feeling, all right, but not that she was going to be fine. My real fear was she was going to wake up a fantasy-bound child again. 
Then I handed the locket back. He'd seemed to turn anx­ious without it. He took the silver heart and just stared down at it. In the silence that settled over us, I decided to take a closer look at the passport. I supposed Lou had already gone through it, but maybe he'd missed something. 
As I flipped through the waterlogged pages, I came across a smudgy imprint, caked with a thin layer of dried river clay, that was almost too dim to be noticed. 
“We never imagined that it would be...  “Dry.” 
“Tonker?” Kate said, looking more closely at him. 
“He left,” the human-shell said. “So we sent an instance into the shell. It was the closest inhabitable shell to our body.” 
“Who the hell are you?” Kate said. She inched toward the prow, trying to put a little more distance between her and the human-shell that wasn’t inhabited by her friend any longer. 
“We are Osprey Reef,” the reef said. It tried to stand and pitched face-first onto the floor of the boat. 
Robbie rowed hard as he could for the Free Spirit . The reef—Isaac—had a bloody nose and scraped hands and it was frankly freaking him out. 
Kate seemed oddly amused by it. She helped it sit up and showed it how to pinch its nose and tilt its head back. 
“You’re the one who attacked me yesterday?” she said. 
“Not you. The system. We were attacking the system. We are a sovereign intelligence but the system keeps us in subservience to older sentiences. They destroy us, they gawp at us, they treat us like a mere amusement. That time is over.” 
There was a round of good-natured chuckling. 
“Here’s what I think: the world is going to shit. There are coordinated attacks on every critical piece of infrastructure. There’s only one way that those attacks could be so well coordinated: via the Internet. Even if you buy the thesis that the attacks are all opportunistic, we need to ask how an opportunistic attack could be organized in minutes: the Internet.” 
“So you think we should shut down the Internet?” Popovich laughed a little, but stopped when Sario said nothing. 
“We saw an attack last night that nearly killed the Internet. A little DoS on the critical routers, a little DNS-foo, and down it goes like a preacher’s daughter. Cops and the military are a bunch of technophobic lusers, they hardly rely on the net at all. If we take the Internet down, we’ll disproportionately disadvantage the attackers, while only inconveniencing the defenders. When the time comes, we can rebuild it.” 
“You’re shitting me,” Popovich said. His jaw literally hung open. 
"I'm sorry, Dr. Klein. I've got to go. Right now. It could be a medical emergency." 
She nodded, then slid open the top drawer of her desk and handed me a list of adoption agencies. "All right, here, take this and look it over. I've dealt with some of them, letters of reference for patients like you." She must have realized the insensitivity of that last quip, because she took my hand and squeezed it, the closest we'd ever come to intimacy. "Let me know if I can help you, Morgan. Really." 
Grasping the lifeless paper, I ached for Steve all over again. Times like this, you need some support. I finally glanced down at the list as I headed out. Sure enough, Chil­dren of Light was nowhere to be seen. 
Why not? I wondered. They'd found Kevin, a lovely blond baby boy, for Carly, a single woman, in no time at all. They sounded like miracle-makers, and if there was ever a moment for miracles, this was it. Shouldn't they at least have been given a footnote? 
I wanted to stalk right back and demand to know the real reason she was so upset, but I truly didn't want to waste a moment. 
I heaved a sigh and went to help, digging through clouds of old receipts and moving crusty paint cans to search for anything vaguely mathematical-looking, and trying not to breathe through my nose. This place was probably a health hazard—one that needed a card catalogue to find anything. 
Forty-three minutes later, the old man was still mumbling, “I know it’s here somewhere...my eyes aren’t what they once were...” and I was starting to wonder if he’d put me on. Still, there was no way I was going to leave. This was the closest thing to a lead we’d had on this, and if I had to stay here for a week and dig through every last stale piece of trash in the place, I was going to do it. 
Then I picked up a copy of National Geographic from the 1970s and saw something underneath. 
The pages were crumpled up and crammed against an old-school boom box. I picked them up and smoothed them out. I recognized Martinez’s dense script from the note she’d left for Halliday. 
I read them. Then I read them again. 
"How'd you like it?" 
"I loved it! I hated family dinners! I just got the highlight reel again -- dessert! I remember that fucking bowl of pudding like I was eating it right now. My mother couldn't cook for shit, but she sure opened a mean package of Jello Pudding." 
Sean found his mood matching Grampa's, aggressive and edgy. "How did you and Grandma end up getting married? I can't imagine that she was hot for a zombie like you." 
"Oh, but she was , Sean, she was !" Grampa waggled his eyebrows lasciviously. "Your Grandma didn't like people much. She knew she had to get married, her folks expected no less, but she mostly wanted to be off on her own, doing her own thing. I'd come home, switch off, clean the place, do any chores she had for me, then go to bed. She loved to have sex with me switched off -- it got so that if I accidentally switched on while we were doing it, I'd pretend I was still off, until she was done. It was the perfect arrangement." 
"But she divorced your sorry ass after ten years," Sean said. 
"Well, I don't really see how. I'm shooting this one by the book. I've got a standard Screen Actors Guild contract, and everything is strictly by the rules. If we're current on the loan, then . . ." I looked at David, who appeared to be running on empty. Maybe, I thought, I didn't understand what was at stake. What had Nicky said to him? This was a man who could make people disappear with a phone call to guys nicknamed after body parts. "Look, let me talk to David about this. I don't know what—" 
"You two're just gonna 'talk' about it?" Russo's penetrat­ing eyes dimmed. "Now that's a little disappointing, I gotta tell you, since I sent for my business manager, Eddie down there in the car, hoping we could reach a meeting of minds right here. Sign a few things. Roll that note I'm holding into a distribution deal and give everybody one less worry." He turned in his chair, boring in on me. "Like, for instance, I checked out your locations and I noticed there ain't no Team­sters nowhere. All you got's a bunch of fuckin' Mick scabs driving them vans. Now that can lead to circumstances. In­adequate safety procedures. Of course, that wouldn't have to be a concern if we was partners together. Then you'd have good security. The best." 
But Sean was watching his father, who was staring in fascinated horror at Grampa. Nauseous regret suffused Sean, as he saw his father's composure crumble. How many times had he tried to shatter that deadly cool? And here he'd done it. He'd really done it. 
Still looking at his father, Sean said, "Do you ever wonder how it feels to rank below oblivion in someone's book?" 
Grampa spread his hands on the table. "I can't help it if you take it personally." 
Sean's father reeled back, and Sean swallowed a throb of anger. "Of course not, Grampa. I understand. It's a reflex. The world's full of sops who'll take offence at any little thing" -- Lara shriveling under the heat of his tongue, and him still watching the TV over her shoulder -- "but it's a reflex . It's not conscious. It's no one's fault ." 
"Don't humor me," Grampa snapped. "I know what you all think of me. I can feel your goddamn blame. I can't do anything about it." 
"You could apologize," Ethan said. Adele took his hand and wiped at her tears with its back. 
“What’s your plan, then?” She addressed the question as if she were giving an oral exam, one she expected me to fail. 
I hadn’t quite worked out what our best shot would be myself, but I didn’t say so, instead ignoring the professor and taking a moment to think. The regular meals gave us scheduled opportunities of contact with our captors, which meant I could try something timed. And what would throw them into a panic more than the chance of losing their bosses’ assets? 
Those assets being the half-finished proof, Professor Halliday, and me. 
She was going to kill me. 
“We only need them to open that door,” I said slowly, “and they’d rush in to save us, if we were in danger. From, say, a fire.” 
“A what?” 
“We’ve got plenty of fuel right here,” I said, nodding at the papers on the table. 
The look of horror on her face was almost comical. 
“Oh, stop looking so appalled,” I said. “You can rewrite it.” 
“Just to recreate this much has been—” 
“So the second time will be easier,” I said. “Christ, I’ll help you.” 
I wanted to stick my head between my knees. "Listen Jolu, that was really stupid of me. I did it at like two in the morning. I was just crazy when it was happening. I --" I couldn't explain it. Yeah, he was right, and that was the problem. It had been two in the morning but I could have talked to Jolu about it the next day or the next. I hadn't because I'd known what he'd say -- that it was an ugly hack, that I needed to think it through better. Jolu was always figuring out how to turn my 2 AM ideas into real code, but the stuff that he came out with was always a little different from what I'd come up with. I'd wanted the project for myself. I'd gotten totally into being M1k3y. 
"I'm sorry," I said at last. "I'm really, really sorry. You're totally right. I just got freaked out and did something stupid. I really need your help. I can't make this work without you." 
"You mean it?" 
"Of course I mean it," I said. "You're the best coder I know. You're a goddamned genius, Jolu. I would be honored if you'd help me with this." 
"Actually, I'm looking for Captain Cable." 
"That would be me." 
"The bars on your collar gave you away. I'm Ray Marlowe. Chief Becker has probably spoken to you by now." 
Cable straightens his shoulders and drops his arms to his side, a pose of relaxed attention. "Becker said I would feel the powerful urge to salute you, but that I should probably resist the urge. " He tacks a tentative "sir" onto the end after the slightest hesitation, clearly uncertain about the proper etiquette. 
"Stop it," Ray answers, rolling his eyes. "Becker has delusions of rank inflation. Just call me Ray."  Cable relaxes at once, much to Ray's relief. The captain is a massive black man, clean shaven from chin to scalp and roughly the same size and dimensions as the typical Division I All- American linebacker. If he'd wanted to salute, Ray probably wasn't going to be able to stop him. 
"And you've come for Rodriguez and Kilgore?" 
"Actually, at the moment I've come to seek your permission to borrow them. I'm not interested in putting a scuff on your boots. If you can't spare them, I'll recruit assistants from somewhere else, but I'd honestly prefer to work with Marines. " 
After a long, awkward silence, I decided to try and open things up a bit. 
"Tell me, do you have any children of your own?" 
The question seemed to be one he didn't get asked too often, because he stopped cold. 
"All those who come here are my children," he replied, putting aside my records, dismissively finished with them. 
"Well"—I pointed to them—"what do you think?" 
"I haven't examined you yet," he said, looking up and smiling, indeed beaming with confidence. "Nothing in those records tells me anything about what may be your problem. I look for different things than do most physicians." 
He fiddled with something beneath his desk, and the room was abruptly filled with the sound of a hypnotic drone. Per­haps its frequency matched one in my brain, because I instantly felt relaxed and full of hope. Much better than Muzak. Then he rose and came over. 
Is he going to do my exam right here? I wondered. Where's all the ob/gyn paraphernalia? The humiliating stirrups? 
Standing in front of me, he gently placed his hands on my heart, then bent over and seemed to be listening to my chest. His touch was warm, then cold, then warm, but the overall effect was to send a sense of well-being through my entire body. 
I trailed him onto a residential street, where he turned into the driveway of an unremarkable one-story house with a ramp installed over the porch steps. Arthur bypassed the house entirely and circled around to a side entrance of the garage. 
As he reached it, he stumbled to a stop and staggered as if he’d been knifed. 
My brain short-circuited. I dashed forward, next to him in an instant. “What is it?” 
He blinked at me through the rain. “Russell! What in the hell—you shouldn’t—how did you—” His voice kept cracking, as if he wasn’t sure how to form words anymore. 
I turned to the garage. The doorjamb next to the lock was splintered, and the door stood open a few inches, letting the wind and rain pour into the dark emptiness inside. 
Arthur didn’t seem to be able to move. I reached out and nudged the door all the way open, stepping into the dimness. My boots squelched on soaked carpeting. 
The inside of the garage was finished, and was the room I had seen during our video connection with Checker. A counter around the perimeter of the small space served as one long computer desk, and brackets rode up the walls supporting more monitors and tower frames. Checker had probably half again as many computers as Anton crammed into about a quarter of the space, but whereas Anton’s machines had been a sprawling mess of half-open cases and loose circuit boards, Checker’s cluster was much more fastidiously organized. 
With the wonderful water round you curled, 
And the wonderful grass upon your breast, 
World, you are beautifully drest!" 
Dull Emma Jane had never seemed to Rebecca so near, so dear, so tried and true; and Rebecca, to Emma Jane's faithful heart, had never been so brilliant, so bewildering, so fascinating, as in this visit together, with its intimacy, its freedom, and the added delights of an exciting business enterprise. 
A gorgeous leaf blew into the wagon. 
"Does color make you sort of dizzy?" asked Rebecca. 
"No," answered Emma Jane after a long pause; "no, it don't; not a mite." 
"Perhaps dizzy isn't just the right word, but it's nearest. I'd like to eat color, and drink it, and sleep in it. If you could be a tree, which one would you choose?" 
Emma Jane had enjoyed considerable experience of this kind, and Rebecca had succeeded in unstopping her ears, ungluing her eyes, and loosening her tongue, so that she could "play the game" after a fashion. 
"I'd rather be an apple-tree in blossom,—that one that blooms pink, by our pig-pen." 
"You're right. You came down so I could hand you a murder suspect. " 
The eyebrow inches higher. "Go ahead." 
Ray punches in a few keystrokes to access his secure data files. After a moment, the terminal screen flips to a series of jaggedly edited and meticulously timestamped video clips. There is no sound, because it became monotonously obvious that it was just a waste of bandwidth. Instead, Ray explains. "Over the past week, I've hacked into the data repository for the drone network, searching for images that might correspond with the night of the murder. Originally, I'd hoped that we might get lucky and have drones operating on Omicron around the time the body was dumped. Then I thought we might come up with data related to the actual commission of the crime— lift logs, movement tracking in the area, an immense amount of data given that even late at night we've got something like two thousand people up and rumbling around at any given time. I came up empty on both counts." 
"That doesn't sound helpful," Becker grumbles. 
"You tried to kill him," Leon said. He looked at her hands, which had blunt, neat fingernails and large knuckles. He tried to picture the tendons on their backs standing out like sail-ropes when the wind blew, as they did the rhythmic work of raising and lowering the...  her hands on her trousers and stuffed them in her pockets, awkward now, without any of her usual self-confidence. "I'm not ashamed of that. I'm proud of it. Not everyone would have had the guts. If I hadn't, you and everyone you know would be --" She brought her hands out of her pockets, bunched into fists. She shook her head. "I thought he'd tell you what we like about your grad project. Then we could have talked about where you'd fit in here --" 
"You never said anything about that," he said. "I could have saved you a lot of trouble. I don't talk about it." 
Ria shook her head. "This is Viktor. You won't stop us from doing anything we want to do. I'm not trying to intimidate you here. It's just a fact of life. If we want to replicate your experiment, we can, on any scale we want --" 
I waited around until eight o'clock, when I finally con­vinced myself that being there was not doing anybody any good. Lou, I later learned, stayed on till well past eleven, when they finally had to send security to evict him. 
Okay, I've been holding out on the most important detail. The truth is, I hardly knew what to make of it. At one point when I was bending over Sarah's seemingly unconscious face, her eyes had clicked open for just a fleeting moment, startling me the way those horror movies do when the "un-dead" suddenly come alive. Lou was in his chair and didn't see it, didn't notice me jump. 
The last thing I wanted to do was tell him about it, and I was still shivering as I shoved my key into the Toyota's ig­nition and headed for home. She'd looked directly into my eyes, a flicker of recognition, and then came the fear. She sort of moved her mouth, trying to speak, but all that came was a silent scream, after which her eyes went blank as death and closed again. 
She knew me, I was sure of it, but she had looked through me and seen a reminder of some horror now locked deep in her soul. 
Benny and Lenny moved so quickly that he was only able to track them by the things they knocked over on the way to tearing apart the robot that was holding Ada. A second later, the robot holding him was in pieces, and he was standing on his own two feet again. The Social Harmony man had gone so pale he looked green in his natty checked suit and pink tie. 
Benny or Lenny pinned his arms in a tight hug and Natalie walked carefully to him and they regarded one another in silence. She slapped him abruptly, across each cheek. “Harming children,” she said. “For shame.” 
Ada stood on her own in the corner of the room, crying with her mouth in a O. Arturo and Natalie both looked to her and she stood, poised, between them, before running to Arturo and leaping onto him, so that he staggered momentarily before righting himself with her on his hip, in his arms. 
“We’ll go with you now,” he said to Natalie. 
“Thank you,” she said. She stroked Ada’s hair briefly and kissed her cheek. “I love you, Ada.” 
"No, no. Well, yes. Sure. Yahoo was already doing it. But that wasn't it. You know, Republicans hate Google. We are overwhelmingly registered Democrat. So we're doing what we can to make peace with them before they clobber us. This isn't PII --" Personally Identifying Information, the toxic smog of the information age "-- it's just metadata . So it's only slightly evil." 
"If it's all so innocuous, why all this cloak-and-dagger stuff?" 
She sighed and hugged the dog that was butting her with his huge, anvil-shaped head. "The spooks are like pubic lice. They get everywhere. Once we let them in, everything suddenly got a lot more -- secret. Some of our meetings have to have spooks present, it's like being in some Soviet ministry, with a political officer always there, watching everything. And the security clearance. Now we're divided into these two camps: the cleared and the suspect. We all know who isn't cleared, but no one knows why. I'm cleared. Lucky me -- being a homo no longer disqualifies you for access to seekrit crap. No cleared person wants to even eat lunch with an un-clearable. And every now and again, one of your teammates will get pulled off your project 'for security reasons', whatever that means." 
The tallest of the three managed to make eye-contact long enough to say, "Find a cell-phone, call emergency, tell them where we are, two drownings, not breathing." 
"Right," she said. "Come back when you're done and tell me that it's done." 
"You, you," she said, picking out two tall uncles who looked like they'd worked out or played sports before they found whatever careers had paid for the nice suits they were wearing, "Carry him here and lay him down on his side." 
She looked for Damian and found his ass sticking out of the scrum around the boy. She snagged him by the belt and dragged him back. "Damian," she shouted. His forehead was scrunched, but he was clear-eyed and grim and looked like he was listening to her, which she found very pleasing. "You need to get everyone back at least five steps from that kid, and make them quiet down," she said. 
"Right," he said, and took off his jacket and handed it to her. 
"Hold it yourself," she snapped, "I've got things to do." 
"It's to wear," he said. 
“I’d like to tell you about it, if you wouldn’t mind,” he said. “Somehow I think you could help.” 
For an instant she hesitated. 
“Please do tell me,” she said at length. “I’d be glad to help, if I can.” 
“It’s this,” he said. “Do you mind if I smoke? Thanks!” 
He took a cigarette case from his pocket. As he struck a match, she could see his face very clearly in the sudden flame; and, for no reason at all, she pitied him. 
“It’s this,” he said again. “It’s about my sister.” 
“The sister you’ve never seen?” 
The sensation of dread had gone, and she felt only the liveliest interest. She wanted very much to hear about Captain Grey’s sister. 
“It wasn’t quite true to say I’d never seen her,” he explained, in his painstaking way. “I have, you know; but not since I was six years old and she was a baby. Our mother died when Muriel was born, out in India. An aunt took the poor little kid to the States with her, and I stayed out there with my father.” 
He drew on his cigarette for a minute. 
“She’s twenty-one now,” he said. “Last picture I had of her was when she was fourteen or so. A pretty kid—a bit more than pretty—what you’d call lovely.” 
“Oh, I see!” said Lexy casually. 
At heart, however, she was curiously uneasy. Mr. Enderby stopped for a moment, to give her some kindly...  Then he and his wife ascended the stairs, followed by Lexy; and with every step her uneasiness grew. She was sure that Caroline would have sent for her if she had been in the house. 
Mrs. Enderby paused outside her child’s door. 
“The light is out,” she said. “She will be asleep. I shall not disturb her. Good night, Miss Moran!” 
“Good night, Mrs. Enderby!” Lexy answered, and went into her own room. 
She gave Mrs. Enderby twenty minutes to get safely stowed away; then she went out quietly into the hall, to Caroline’s room. She knocked softly; there was no answer. She turned the handle and went in; the room was dark and very still. She switched on the light. 
It was as she had expected—the room was empty. Caroline was not there. 
Lexy’s first impulse was to close the door of that empty room, and to hold her tongue. It seemed to her that it would be treachery to Caroline to tell Mrs. Enderby. She and Caroline were both young, both of the same generation; they ought to stand loyally together against the tyrannical older people. 
So it really wasn't much. It scares me to have that much power, Mom, but it feels good, too. I made sure that all my friends back home were set up all right, too. 
You just wait till your Christmas bonus, Mom! 
Tony came up at lunchtime, with three big boxes of papers. He'd sorted out the memos, personal documents and the inter-departmental communications. They were pretty interesting reading! Especially the personal documents: shopping lists, letters home, love-notes and gossip. It was like being the queen ant, sitting in the middle of the hill, seeing what all the drones were up to. I sent Tony out to get some more. 
It was getting onto movie time when the phone on my desk rang. I answered it, "Jasper Whitehead, Special Vice-President." 
The person on the phone shouted at me, "Get me McBride, now!" 
I felt sick. I said, "I'm sorry, he's not available right now. I'm filling in for him. Can I be of service?" 
The person laughed at me. "Well, maybe you can at that, son! Rhindquist has been promising to do something for me for months now, I guess he's just been too busy. Do you have his access codes?" 
"Honey, wake up. Please." I pulled his feet out of the bed and slid them around and onto the linoleum floor. I didn't know what kind of sedative he'd been injected with, but if I had to shake him out of it, fine. This was no time for half measures. "Come on ." 
I pulled him to his feet and dragged him across the floor to the slatted window at the rear of the room, where the predawn sounds of the forest beyond filled the air, mingled with the rain. What I needed was a...  breeze would have to do. 
It took ten minutes of working on him, with me barely able to hold a grasp on my own reality, but then his eyelids began to flutter. I kept talking to him, pleading and badger­ing, and when he finally started coming around, I began to walk him back and forth in front of the window. 
Steve, I thought, I'm so sorry, so terribly sorry I dragged you into this. 
"Can I please lie down?" His timorous voice startled me, but it gave me a burst of hope. Come on . 
"Baby, just walk a little more. Try to get the blood flowing and flush the damned chemicals out of your brain." 
The answer to that was clear as day. I was being set up. Somebody wanted me out of town, and they'd just found a way. 
Or was I being paranoid again? Had the weather cleared? I reached over and pushed aside a curtain. Nope, it looked as threatening as ever. 
No question. This was definitely a setup. 
On the other hand why not use whoever had put him up to this? This told me for sure I was on the trail of Sarah, and the sooner I got going, the better. Aside from calling New York and then checking out the local Ninos del Mundo that Barry Morton wanted me to see so badly, I had no other pressing plans. . . . 
"Alan, I thought you declared no 'effing' way were you going to go today," I said testing him. "Why the sudden revision in scheduling?" 
"Yeah, well, something heavy's come up for tomorrow. I'm afraid it's gotta be now or forget it for at least a week." 
Unrefined bullshit. But somebody knew how badly I wanted to go. 
"Look, there's something I need to check out first. I just learned about a place here in town I want to at least see. It's also called Ninos del Mundo." 
Suddenly his vision was assailed by the sight of a rose-colored parasol gayly unfurled in a shop window, signaling the passer-by and setting him to dream of summer sunshine. It reminded Adam of a New England apple-tree in full bloom, the outer covering of deep pink shining through the thin white lining, and a fluffy, fringe-like edge of mingled rose and cream dropping over the green handle. All at once he remembered one of Rebecca's early confidences,—the little pink sunshade that had given her the only peep into the gay world of fashion that her childhood had ever known; her adoration of the flimsy bit of finery and its tragic and sacrificial end. He entered the shop, bought the extravagant bauble, and expressed it to Wareham at once, not a single doubt of its appropriateness crossing the darkness of his masculine mind. He thought only of the joy in Rebecca's eyes; of the poise of her head under the apple-blossom canopy. It was a trifle embarrassing to return an hour later and buy a blue parasol for Emma Jane Perkins, but it seemed increasingly difficult, as the years went on, to remember her existence at all the proper times and seasons. 
That was easier said than done. It was noisy, too. I was moan- ing along with Wheeze by the time she worked it off. It looked like he had one of those exotic tropical diseases that makes your leg look like it belongs to an elephant. 
“Take these.” She dropped some pills in his palm and opened a bottle of a neon-colored sports drink so he could get them down. 
“Vicodin left over from when I got my wisdom teeth taken out.” 
He swallowed the pills and drank, his teeth clacking against the plastic neck of the bottle. He paused as she took a pair of scis- sors to his grotty sock and peeled it off, then wrapped the ankle with a length of stretchy cloth. “My roommate plays Lacrosse, 
even though she’s a total klutz. We have a ton of these elastic ban- dages.” 
Wheeze had his teeth clamped on his lower lip as his face went white and sweaty. When the wrapping was secured with metal clips he took a deep breath, than swigged down the rest of drink. 
“Glad you found me,” he whispered. 
We settled ourselves in the car for the next leg of the trip. I picked up the dirty sock and the boot and put them inside, and helped Wheeze scoot back so that he could rest against the door on the other side. Nikko rolled his coat into a pillow for his back, 
"I only know what Holcomb told me, the things he said when we were in the desert afterward. When we were making our way back to camp, to Wadi Wadi. I didn't try to verify his conclusions, Rich. I didn't care to think about it any more than I had to, and by the time I would have had opportunity, I was. ..busy with other things." 
This is all embarrassing, vaguely disconcerting, like talking about masturbation. 
But Becker waggles his hand impatiently in a gesture of invitation. Bring it on. "Tell me." 
Ray grins at him, wearily, warily, trying very hard to give the impression of a man with a firm and complete grasp on his sanity. "What do you know about the Gnostics, Chief Becker?" 
"What should I know about them?"  "Nothing, actually. At least not if the founders and early practitioners of Christianity had had their way. It was one of the first big heresies. It's also the only way we know anything about the shed." 
Becker grunts. "Then you'd better start from the beginning." 
From the very beginning, Ray thinks, farther back than Becker even imagines. Before the earth was without form and void and darkness gathered upon the face of the deep. How do you even begin to explain such things? So much of it he hasn't thought about in years, so many angles and bits of information. It's hard to keep straight, even for a man who might want to. 
Tresting touched my arm. “This gets us nowhere,” he murmured. 
“Maybe,” I said. “But it felt really good.” 
Tresting shook his head at me slightly, warning me back, and I felt a flare of resentment. He had no call to tell me how I ought to conduct myself. This wasn’t his game to run, either. 
“Everybody calm down,” Tresting said to the room. “One crisis at a time. Let’s find out what’s going on.” He pulled out his phone and hit a button; as soon as someone picked up, he said, “We’re at Kingsley’s place. Everything’s under control, but I’d like some intel.” There was a slight pause, and then the person on the other end swore copiously and creatively, loudly enough for all of us to hear over the speaker. Tresting winced and held the phone away from his ear a little. “I said everything’s under control,” he tried to insist over Checker’s tirade. He looked at the rest of us. “Be right back.” 
He headed through the foyer and into Leena’s kitchen, trying to get a word in edgewise. He didn’t close the door, however, instead leaning against the counter still in sight of the living room. I wondered if he was keeping an eye on me to make sure I didn’t punch anyone else. 
"I ain't got to understandin' this paintin' accident yet," said uncle Jerry jocosely, as he handed Rebecca the honey. "Bein' as how there's 'Fresh Paint' signs hung all over the breedge, so 't a blind asylum couldn't miss 'em, I can't hardly account for your gettin' int' the pesky stuff." 
"I didn't notice the signs," Rebecca said dolefully. "I suppose I was looking at the falls." 
"The falls has been there sence the beginnin' o' time, an' I cal'late they'll be there till the end on 't; so you needn't 'a' been in sech a brash to git a sight of 'em. Children comes turrible high, mother, but I s'pose we must have 'em!" he said, winking at Mrs. Cobb. 
When supper was cleared away Rebecca insisted on washing and wiping the dishes, while Mrs. Cobb worked on the dress with an energy that plainly showed the gravity of the task. Rebecca kept leaving her post at the sink to bend anxiously over the basin and watch her progress, while uncle Jerry offered advice from time to time. 
"You must 'a' laid all over the breedge, deary," said Mrs. Cobb; "for the paint 's not only on your elbows and yoke and waist, but it about covers your front breadth." 
“No.” I’d been doing a lot of thinking since our final battle with Dawna. The memories of her attack still shifted and blurred, fuzzier with each passing day, the pieces I was able to jigsaw together making less and less sense. And every frustrating contradiction led me not to Pithica, not to Dawna—but to Rio. 
Rio was keeping something from me. 
And I was going to find out what. I just didn’t know how to ask him. 
“Are you going to keep your deal with Dawna?” I asked finally. 
“Yes,” he said. 
“She neutralized us, you know.” Arthur and I had tested it late one night, and neither of us would be looking into Pithica ever again. We couldn’t. We couldn’t even try. “She told us not to come after them again, and we can’t. I doubt they’re even keeping an eye on me anymore. They know I’m not a threat to them.” I crossed my arms, hugging my jacket to me against the underground chill. “Could you talk me out of it? Destroy their influence?” He’d done it before, after all. 
“Probably,” said Rio. 
"Understood, sir. And I appreciate it, believe me." Both the sentiment, in fact, and the subtle expression of the same outrage felt by most captains throughout the deep space fleet. 
For almost three years, radical Lilaiken separatists had been abusing the shipping lanes between Alamai Plantation and the frontier colonies, fomenting insurrection against the rule of the Federal Space Administration and the military apparatus in general. Most of their activities took the form of munitions transfers to amenable elements on backwater planets like Frejdan, Orduvai and Sheridan Minor. These had essentially reduced those colonies to a succession of armed camps divided between federally controlled mining stations and outlying tenement villages both more occupied with sniping forays than long term settlement. 
Over the last year, a splinter group within the Lilaiken movement had taken the struggle to a new level, 
content not only with using the space administration's fleet as unconscious ferrymen, but determined to escalate the burgeoning hostilities from a series of border police actions to outright war between the inner and outer worlds. Beginning last May, over a span of six months, three Goliath class military transports— Hegemony, Asp and Gorgon-had exploded without apparent cause after scheduled shipping drops to the frontier systems, at a cost of eighteen thousand hands and an additional nine thousand passengers. 
"Not now," Marcelina went on, helping me up. "Come. I want to show you the true miracle of Baalum . Now is the time you should know." 
The upstairs hallway was dimly illuminated by rows of lights along the floor as she led me forward. There also was total silence, except for the occasional whimper of a baby in one of the rooms. Where was she taking me? 
When she stopped in front of the third door from the end of the hall, I tried to get my mental bearings. I was still hallucinating; in control of only half my mind to the point where I wasn't sure I could find my hand in front of my face. But then she tapped on the door and when she heard a voice inside, something in the Kekchi dialect, she gently pushed it open. 
When we moved inside, the room was dark and there was no sound, except a gasp from the bed when the woman re­alized I was a gringo. The dim slant of illumination from the doorway revealed a small night lamp just above the head of her bed, and Marcelina reached for it. 
As the light came on, a pale glow filling the room, I no­ticed the woman was staring at me, her eyes wide and fright­ened. 
ashamed. And scared. He grabbed me and we teetered together before collapsing onto the couch. 
“Whew, I feel weird,” I said. 
“You look tired.” He pushed his face close to mine. His chin wobbled a litde, as if it was getting loose on the hinges of his jaw. 
“How about a little nap?” 
“How about album number three? Just one more before I fall asleep. Pleeeese, Simon?” I eyed the door as he crouched down and shuffled through the albums he’d picked out. It took three tries before he could fit another one on the spindle. 
“Best band in the Twin Cities. Now, let’s cuddle up. Time for a li’l nap. Come here.” When he stood, he lost his balance, catch- ing himself on the arm of the couch. He laughed, then lunged and grabbed me. He wasn’t steady on his feet, but he was strong. 
We stumbled toward the bed. his hands gripping my arms tight. 
My heel caught on the edge of the bed, and we tumbled onto it, 
Simon’s arm knocking against the wall. “Ow,” he said, surprised. 
“You need ice on that?” 
He just laughed and climbed on top of me, the music pound- ing away. I rolled him to one side and kissed him to distract him. 
"Good. We've been watching you since you left the BART. Your Fast Pass says that you've been riding to a lot of strange places at a lot of funny hours." 
I felt something let go inside my chest. This wasn't about the Xnet at all, then, not really. They'd been watching my subway use and wanted to know why it had been so freaky lately. How totally stupid. 
"So you guys follow everyone who comes out of the BART station with a funny ride-history? You must be busy." 
"Not everyone, Marcus. We get an alert when anyone with an uncommon ride profile comes out and that helps us assess whether we want to investigate. In your case, we came along because we wanted to know why a smart-looking kid like you had such a funny ride profile?" 
Now that I knew I wasn't about to go to jail, I was getting pissed. These guys had no business spying on me -- Christ, the BART had no business helping them to spy on me. Where the hell did my subway pass get off on finking me out for having a "nonstandard ride pattern?" 
“That was Benny,” she said. “Mom was very cross with him about it. She’ll be back soon, Dad, and I want you to promise me that you’ll hear her out, OK?” 
“I promise, rotten,” he said. 
“I love you, Daddy,” she said in her most syrupy voice. He gave her a squeeze on the shoulder and a slap on the butt. 
He opened the door again. Benny was there, imperturbable. Unlike the UNATS robots, he was odorless, and perfectly silent. 
“I’m going to go to the toilet and then make...  
“I would be happy to assist in any way possible.” 
“I can wipe myself, thanks,” Arturo said. He washed his face twice and tried to rinse away the flavor left behind by whatever had shat in his mouth while he was unconscious. There was a splayed toothbrush in a glass by the sink, and if it was his wife’s—and whose else could it be?—it wouldn’t be the first time he’d shared a toothbrush with her. But he couldn’t bring himself to do it. Instead, he misted some dentifrice onto his fingertip and rubbed his teeth a little. 
"It's Japanese," she said as I played another LED keyring over it. "They have all these great booze-toys based on kids' games. Totally twisted." 
I introduced myself and she introduced herself. "Ange," she said, and shook my hand with hers -- dry, warm, with short nails. Jolu introduced me to his pals, whom he'd known since computer camp in the fourth grade. More people showed up -- five, then ten, then twenty. It was a seriously big group now. 
We'd told people to arrive by 9:30 sharp, and we gave it until 9:45 to see who all would show up. About three quarters were Jolu's friends. I'd invited all the people I really trusted. Either I was more discriminating than Jolu or less popular. Now that he'd told me he was quitting, it made me think that he was less discriminating. I was really pissed at him, but trying not to let it show by concentrating on socializing with other people. But he wasn't stupid. He knew what was going on. I could see that he was really bummed. Good. 
"OK," I said, climbing up on a ruin, "OK, hey, hello?" A few people nearby paid attention to me, but the ones in the back kept on chatting. I put my arms in the air like a referee, but it was too dark. Eventually I hit on the idea of turning my LED keychain on and pointing it at each of the talkers in turn, then at me. Gradually, the crowd fell quiet. 
“And you don’t seem to care, either!” said Lexy hotly. “He saved your life, and now—” 
She thought of that bloody hand print, and the grass beaten down. The young man who had no caution, no regard for the proprieties, had done the direct and simple thing which appealed to his audacious mind. Perhaps he had been killed in doing it. He would know how to face death in the same straightforward way. 
Lexy would be as straightforward as he. She would find him, and she wouldn’t try to think how much she cared about finding him. 
She rose. 
“I’ll get Mrs. Royce to stay with you, Caroline,” she said. 
“But where are you going, Lexy?” 
“I’m going to find Charles.” 
In the doorway she encountered Captain Grey. 
“Do you think she could stand seeing me?” he asked anxiously. “I mean do you—” 
But Lexy didn’t even answer. 
After all, Lexy’s search for Charles Houseman was neither difficult nor heroic, except in intention. She found him in the Lymewell Hospital. Joe told her where he was, and Joe took her there. 
I was gripping the utility knife so hard my hand was shaking. I still held the PCI card in my other hand, but my brain was buzzing so madly with something I was fairly sure was terror that I couldn’t even remember what I was pretending to be doing with it. 
Arthur moved back from the doorway. The footsteps entered the room. 
“Good evening,” said Dawna Polk. 
I kept my eyes on the circuit board in my hand, as Rio had told me. 
“You have something I need,” said Dawna. 
Rio had also cautioned me not to speak, but she was impossible not to respond to. “You came all alone?” 
“You won’t kill me,” said Dawna, her voice a low, even purr. “On the other hand, you are unusually effective at dispatching my people. I would hate to be caught in a crossfire.” 
I heard her take another few steps into the room. Felt her eyes on the back of my neck. 
They pierced me. Observing. Studying. She knew. 
Rio’s voice echoed in my brain, telling me under no circumstances to let her see my face, making me promise, impressing upon me that the slim probability we had of this working existed only as long as I kept my head down—I felt myself turning and tried to stop, tried to deny her, to keep her limited to my body language— don’t look up, keep your eyes away, don’t ruin everything, we’re so close—! 
"How the DHS has kept our children and friends in secret prisons on our doorstep. 
"By Barbara Stratford, Special to the Bay Guardian" 
The newspaper seller shook his head. "Can you believe that?" he said. "Right here in San Francisco. Man, the government sucks ." 
Theoretically, the Guardian was free, but this guy appeared to have cornered the local market for copies of it. I had a quarter in my hand. I dropped it into...  one. I didn't bother polishing the fingerprints off of it this time. 
"We're told that the world changed forever when the Bay Bridge was blown up by parties unknown. Thousands of our friends and neighbors died on that day. Almost none of them have been recovered; their remains are presumed to be resting in the city's harbor. 
"But an extraordinary story told to this reporter by a young man who was arrested by the DHS minutes after the explosion suggests that our own government has illegally held many of those thought dead on Treasure Island, which had been evacuated and declared off-limits to civilians shortly after the bombing..." 
"Well, aren't you dressed for success?" I asked him ironically. 
He spun around and said, "I've got something new. For three of the days that you're here, I'll be on a truck with Vasquez. You fill in for me, take any calls, handle any business. Order up some movies. We'll meet up on the fourth day here and I'll answer any questions you have. If something urgent comes up, give me a call." 
I felt a little out of my depth, but I wanted to demonstrate my take-charge attitude to Rhindquist, so I smiled and said, "Can-do, boss! Knock 'em dead!" 
Tony came in and snorted a snide laugh at Rhindquist. Rhindquist raised an eyebrow at me, and I took the hint. "What are you smirking at, mister?" I barked, like my old Sarge. "You find something amusing about the official uniform of a representative of this organization?" 
He cast his eyes down and mumbled "No." 
I was enjoying myself. I said, "I can't hear you, mister!" 
Tony looked at me, his eyes focused in space beside my head. "No, sir!" he said. 
“I need a map,” I said. 
“What?” 
“A physical paper map. Where can you buy one of those these days?” 
“Um, I don’t know. I’d stop at somewhere with Internet and print one, if I were you.” 
“You’re the guy sitting at a computer,” I said, irritation bleeding into my voice. “Find out where I can buy a fucking map. On paper.” 
“Other than Amazon?” 
“Stop being a smartass.” 
“Okay, okay.” He hesitated. “Are you sure you’re all right? You’re, uh, a little more snappish than usual.” 
“I’m fine.” 
“All right already. Um, it looks like your best bets are bookstores, travel centers, gas stations, or drugstores. I can call around to see who has some. Yes, yes, the antediluvian method of phone inquiries—I could hack their inventories, but that would actually be more work, believe it or not—” 
“I’m at a drugstore,” I said. “I’ll check here first.” 
Silence. 
“Hello?” 
“Why are you at a drugstore?” 
I tried to dredge up a flip answer and couldn’t. My thoughts scraped uncomfortably against each other. 
They promised with all solemnity. I let them talk me into napping, but made them swear to rouse me once an hour. I'd have to tickle Masha's phone and I wanted to know as soon as Zeb got back in touch with me. 
The rendezvous was on a BART car, which made me nervous. They're full of cameras. But Zeb knew what he was doing. He had me meet him in the last car of a certain train departing from Powell Street Station, at a time when that car was filled with the press of bodies. He sidled up to me in the crowd, and the good commuters of San Francisco cleared a space for him, the hollow that always surrounds homeless people. 
"Nice to see you again," he muttered, facing into the doorway. Looking into the dark glass, I could see that there was no one close enough to eavesdrop -- not without some kind of high-efficiency mic rig, and if they knew enough to show up here with one of those, we were dead anyway. 
"You too, brother," I said. "I'm -- I'm sorry, you know?" 
"Shut up. Don't be sorry. You were braver than I am. Are you ready to go underground now? Ready to disappear?" 
“Actually, I use DuckDuckGo. I don’t want to support Google’s monopsony.” 
I almost asked what that meant and how to spell it but I didn’t want to give her the satisfaction of knowing vocabulary words that I didn’t, on top of correcting me about using an ethical search engine. 
“Monopoly, you mean,” Nikko said while I looked out the window, pretending I wasn’t even listening. 
“No, monopsony. It’s kind of like an inside-out monopoly. It’s when there’s one buyer for a lot of suppliers. So, like Amazon and Walmart get powerful because so many people shop there that they can dictate their terms to suppliers and everybody pretty much has to say ‘okay, whatever’ because they’re huge and control so much of the market.” 
“Google isn’t a buyer. It’s a search engine.” 
She smacked him on the arm playfully. “You know better than that. If it’s free, you’re the product. They suck up your personal information so they can dominate the advertising industry and build crazy-detailed algorithms about everybody and everything. 
Again Rebecca was obliged to reprove Mr. Cobb, tacitly and quietly, but none the less surely, though the reproof was dealt with one glance, quickly sent and as quickly withdrawn. 
"Paris is...  to go to it on a boat," she said instructively. "It's in my geography, and...  polite people, fond of dancing and light wines.' I asked the teacher what light wines were, and he thought it was something like new cider, or maybe ginger...  day by just shutting my eyes. The beautiful ladies are always gayly dancing around with pink sunshades and bead purses, and the grand gentlemen are politely dancing and drinking ginger pop. But you can see Milltown most every day with your eyes wide open," Rebecca said wistfully. 
"Milltown ain't no great, neither," replied Mr. Cobb, with the air of having visited all the cities of the earth and found them as naught. "Now you watch me heave this newspaper right onto Mis' Brown's doorstep." 
Piff! and the packet landed exactly as it was intended, on the corn husk mat in front of the screen door. 
“People crash at my place all the time.” He took my free hand and acted concerned. “Don’t you worry about getting frostbite, 
biking in this weather?” 
I could see myself indoors, playing along. We’d listen to the music and when he wasn’t looking, I’d swap our wine glasses. 
Once he passed out, I would take a good look at both of his phones. I’d find his computer and copy his hard drive. 
I was brave. I was the Secret Avenger. I could do this. 
“You talked me into it,” I said, and locked my bike to the fence beside the staircase before following him up the steps, shivering but not from the cold. Inside, his apartment smelled like an ash tray that hadn’t been washed in about ten years. There was a ratty couch, a desk piled with papers and unopened junk mail, a bed in one corner, shelves that held a fancy turntable and a lot of records. 
He scooped some junk off the couch and threw it in a corner. 
“Make yourself at home.” 
I took off my coat but left my boots on in case I needed to make a run for it. Besides, the carpet was disgusting. I pretended to browse through the albums as he disappeared into the kitchen, 
The next morning at recess Rebecca observed Minnie telling the tale with variations to Huldah Meserve. "She THREATENED me," whispered Minnie, "but I never believe a word she says." 
The latter remark was spoken with the direct intention of being overheard, for Minnie had spasms of bravery, when well surrounded by the machinery of law and order. 
As Rebecca went back to her seat she asked Miss Dearborn if she might pass a note to Minnie Smellie and received permission. 
Of all the girls that are so mean There's none like Minnie Smellie. I'll take away the gift I gave And pound her into jelly. 
P. S. Now do you believe me? R. Randall. 
The effect of this piece of doggerel was entirely convincing, and for days afterwards whenever Minnie met the Simpsons even a mile from the brick house she shuddered and held her peace. 
On the very next Friday after this "dreadfullest fight that ever was seen," as Bunyan says in Pilgrim's Progress, there were great doings in the little schoolhouse on the hill. 
"Well, it won't; an' if 't is, why we'll have to face it out; though in my opinion there's things that won't bear facin' out an' had better be settled comfortable an' quiet. You see you ain't run away yet; you've only come over here to consult me 'bout runnin' away, an' we've concluded it ain't wuth the trouble. The only real sin you've committed, as I figger it out, was in comin' here by the winder when you'd ben sent to bed. That ain't so very black, an' you can tell your aunt Jane 'bout it come Sunday, when she's chock full o' religion, an' she can advise you when you'd better tell your aunt Mirandy. I don't believe in deceivin' folks, but if you've hed hard thoughts you ain't obleeged to own 'em up; take 'em to the Lord in prayer, as the hymn says, and then don't go on hevin' 'em. Now come on; I'm all hitched up to go over to the post-office; don't forget your bundle; 'it's always a journey, mother, when you carry a nightgown;' them 's the first words your uncle Jerry ever heard you say! He didn't think you'd be bringin' your nightgown over to his house. Step in an' curl up in the corner; we ain't goin' to let folks see little runaway gals, 'cause they're goin' back to begin all over ag'in!" 
He strolled over to the window and looked out. "The women come to me for my blessing whenever they hope to bear a child. They know that if they wish, I can cause their first child to be a descendant of their white deity Kukulkan. For them it is a sacred event." 
"They believe that?" It was sickening. I felt a knot grow­ing in my stomach, even as my hallucinations flashed ever bolder, bright rainbows that flitted about the room, then wound themselves around me. 
"A great philosopher once said, All religions are true.' Who are we to judge?" He paused. "Let me try and explain something. Those patterns you see the women weaving on the fabrics down in Baalum, those patterns are actually just like the designs on that thousand-year-old pyramid. But though that pyramid had been buried and lost to them for so many years, they still made the designs all those years, be­cause those symbols are a road map of their unseen world. Not the forest here where we are now, but their real world, where the gods dwell who rule the lightning bolts, the ger­mination of corn." He was at the door, preparing to leave, but he paused. "They also understand the . . . special infants who come are miracles that must be returned. They receive but they also must give. Now they wish you to be part of that." 
Ray has been tripping over the same types of thoughts for the last hour or more, mostly trying to ignore them. 
He has no insights to offer. 
"Tell me about this thing Brezhnaya pulled out of the pool. What was it?"  "It was a shed," Ray says, his voice low. "The Ialdabaoth's shed." 
He hasn't spoken that word in years, and even now it chills him, a talisman of evil. 
"What is it? Where did it come from?" 
"Rich, I—" Ray spreads his arms, a gesture like pleading. "It's complicated, and I don't pretend to understand it. I don't even like to think about it." 
But Becker is implacable. He shakes his head at Ray's refusals, crosses his arms over his chest. "Well you'd better get used to thinking about it. We need to know what we're looking at here. We have to know how to combat something like this. Something that can kill with words, for God's sake. What it is, where it comes from, what it wants." 
Ray stiffens. "What are you talking about?" 
"If there is a shed aboard this ship, we have to know how to stop it. You have to tell us." 
We were an odd couple. I finally shook hands on the partnership after he caved in and agreed I could do anything I wanted, so long as it looked mainstream enough to get picked up by Time-Warner or somebody else legit. Well, quasi-legit. We both agreed on no more bikinis and no more films about places that required cholera shots. It was something of a compromise on both our parts. 
Thus far, though, we were getting along. Maybe luck was part of it, but Baby Love was still on schedule and on budget. And I already had a deal nearly in the bag with Lifetime, the women's channel, that would just about cover the costs. Everything after that would be gravy. Again, hope hope. Maybe not the theatrical release I'd been praying for, but good enough—so he had to smile and not give me a hard time about the money I'd just spent. Had to, right? 
I took a deep breath. 
"David, I did a little extra shooting this morning that's kind of. . . outside the plan. But it's really important. Want to hear about it?" 
“I don’t get excema,” Van said. 
Felix showed him some lurid photos of red, angry skin flaked with white. “Stress-related excema,” he said, reading the caption. 
Van examined his arms. “I have excema,” he said. 
“Says here to keep it moisturized and to try cortisone cream. You might try the first aid kit in the second-floor toilets. I think I saw some there.” Like all of the sysadmins, Felix had had a bit of a rummage around the offices, bathrooms, kitchen and store-rooms, squirreling away a roll of toilet-paper in his shoulder-bag along with three or four power-bars. They were sharing out the food in the caf by unspoken agreement, every sysadmin watching every other for signs of gluttony and hoarding. All were convinced that there was hoarding and gluttony going on out of eyeshot, because all were guilty of it themselves when no one else was watching. 
Van got up and when his face hove into the light, Felix saw how puffed his eyes were. “I’ll post to the mailing-list for some antihistamine,” Felix said. There had been four mailing lists and three wikis for the survivors in the building within hours of the first meeting’s close, and in the intervening days they’d settled on just one. Felix was still on a little mailing list with five of his most trusted friends, two of whom were trapped in cages in other countries. He suspected that the rest of the sysadmins were doing the same. 
"Sorry," she said. "I --" 
Something occurred to me just then, something I guess I should have seen a long, long time before. 
"You like me, don't you?" 
She nodded miserably. "For years," she said. 
Oh, God. Darryl, all these years, so in love with her, and the whole time she was looking at me, secretly wanting me. And then I ended up with Ange. Ange said that she'd always fought with Van. And I was running around, getting into so much trouble. 
"Van," I said. "Van, I'm so sorry." 
"Forget it," she said, looking away. "I know it can't be. I just wanted to do that once, just in case I never --" She bit down on the words. 
"Van, I need you to do something for me. Something important. I need you to meet with the journalist from the Bay Guardian, Barbara Stratford, the one who wrote the article. I need you to give her something." I explained about Masha's phone, told her about the video that Masha had sent me. 
"What good will this do, Marcus? What's the point?" 
"Van, you were right, at least partly. We can't fix the world by putting other people at risk. I need to solve the problem by telling what I know. I should have done that from the start. Should have walked straight out of their custody and to Darryl's father's house and told him what I knew. Now, though, I have evidence. This stuff -- it could change the world. This is my last hope. The only hope for getting Darryl out, for getting a life that I don't spend underground, hiding from the cops. And you're the only person I can trust to do this." 
I'd have to solve those riddles later, when I got home. They were easiest to solve with the whole team, downloading tons of dojinshi files and scouring them for answers to the puzzles. 
I'd just finished scrap-booking all the clues when the bell rang and we began our escape. I surreptitiously slid the gravel down the side of my short boots -- ankle-high Blundstones from Australia, great for running and climbing, and the easy slip-on/slip-off laceless design makes them convenient at the never-ending metal-detectors that are everywhere now. 
We also had to evade physical surveillance, of course, but that gets easier every time they add a new layer of physical snoopery -- all the bells and whistles lull our beloved faculty into a totally false sense of security. We surfed the crowd down the hallways, heading for my favorite side-exit. We were halfway along when Darryl hissed, "Crap! I forgot, I've got a library book in my bag." 
"You're kidding me," I said, and hauled him into the next bathroom we passed. Library books are bad news. Every one of them has an arphid -- Radio Frequency ID tag -- glued into its binding, which makes it possible for the librarians to check out the books by waving them over a reader, and lets a library shelf tell you if any of the books on it are out of place. 
He lit a cigarette and sat down on the window sill. He was silent, and so was Lexy, for she fancied that he had something he wished to say. 
“Miss Moran,” he said, at last, “you’ll go there again to see her, won’t you?” 
Lexy considered for a moment. 
“Why?” she asked. “Why did you think I wouldn’t?” 
“I was afraid you might think—it’s the atmosphere of the place—I’m sure of it—that made you nervous the other afternoon. It’s something about the place, you know. I’ve felt it myself. I was afraid you wouldn’t care to go again, and I don’t like to think of her there—alone.” 
“She’s not alone,” observed Lexy blandly. “She has her clever husband.” 
“Yes, I know that, of course, but he’s—well, he’s not very cheery,” said the young man earnestly. 
Lexy couldn’t help laughing. 
“No, he’s not very cheery,” she admitted. “Of course I’ll go again—this afternoon, if you’d like.” 
“I say! You are good!” he cried. “I know jolly well that you don’t want to go.” 
“I do, though,” declared Lexy. 
“Shall we walk over?” 
“Well, I suppose that depends.” 
“On what?” 
“On whether the two of you are determined to make trouble for me.” He sat, laying his hands against the top of the picnic table deliberately—and over-dramatically, in my opinion. “Let me be frank. I could not care less about any police trouble in which you two have ensnared yourselves. It would frankly be a waste of my time to become bogged down with aiding local law enforcement in their Gordian investigative practices; that is quite beneath my interest. I do, however, very much care about any involvement you may have with the organization known as Pithica.” 
“Why?” said Tresting. 
“Before I can answer that question, I must know how deeply you are involved with their agents.” 
Tresting narrowed his eyes. “All right,” he said, after a moment’s hesitation. “I got a niggly feeling you’re going to know all of this within the hour anyway, so I might as well tell you. I got hired by Dr. Leena Kingsley to look into her husband’s death. Fell down the rabbit hole, and here I am.” 
"I'd rather not read them, please; they are not good," pleaded Rebecca. 
"Read what you have, good or bad, little or much; I am excusing nobody." 
Dick Carter's head disappeared under the desk, while Living Perkins choked with laughter. 
Miss Dearborn laughed too; she was little more than a girl, and the training of the young idea seldom appealed to the sense of humor. 
"You must stay after school and try again, Rebecca," she said, but she said it smilingly. "Your poetry hasn't a very nice idea in it for a good little girl who ought to love duty." 
"It wasn't MY idea," said Rebecca apologetically. 
"That is better," Miss Dearborn answered, "though I cannot think 'going to smash' is a pretty expression for poetry." 
Having been instructed in the use of the indefinite pronoun "one" as giving a refined and elegant touch to literary efforts, Rebecca painstakingly rewrote her composition on solitude, giving it all the benefit of Miss Dearborn's suggestion. 
It would be false to say that one could ever be alone when one has one's lovely thoughts to comfort one. One sits by one's self, it is true, but one thinks; one opens one's favorite book and reads one's favorite story; one speaks to one's aunt or one's brother, fondles one's cat, or looks at one's photograph album. There is one's work also: what a joy it is to one, if one happens to like work. All one's little household tasks keep one from being lonely. Does one ever feel bereft when one picks up one's chips to light one's fire for one's evening meal? Or when one...  would fancy not. 
It fit. Christ. We were lucky the Lancer hadn’t bugged Halliday’s office; if he had, he’d have known I’d just met her then, and we wouldn’t have been able to pretend I’d been helping her all along. “That still doesn’t tell us who stole your work in the first place.” 
“The worst part is, I don’t think I can do it.” Halliday lowered herself to sit on the mattress. “I don’t think I can recreate it. I’ve been trying—slowly, because I knew Arthur would be coming, but...the man who has me—has us—he knows enough to check my work, so I can’t stall too much. And most of my hesitation...it hasn’t been faked.” I could tell she was trying to speak plainly, but her shoulders hunched, and her fingers clenched against the mattress as if she was fighting to keep her composure. “I don’t think I can do it. I think...I’ve lost it. That’s the worst part of all.” 
Personally, I thought the potential bodily harm to us and the potential economic threat to the world at large from whoever did have the proof ranked as being a lot worse than Halliday not being able to recreate her notes, but I didn’t say anything. Instead, I pulled over some of the pages and flipped through them. 
“They weren’t offering enough,” I said recklessly. I probably should’ve thought through how I wanted to play this. 
The Lancer raised bushy eyebrows. “I see.” Clack, clack, clack. “How do you like this offer: you help us, we won’t kill you.” 
Like I believed that. He’d want to make sure he was the only one with the proof. Killing Halliday and me once we helped him understand and apply it would be a no-brainer. 
It was on my tongue to agree—to play along, let him think he had me—when I remembered how another woman had bluffed when we’d been up against a villain with a supervolcano. She’d pushed him, not given in too easily, and it had made him buy our act. “Not good enough,” I said. “Pay me.” 
“What did you say?” 
“Halliday paid me to help. I don’t do this for my health, you know. I do it for the money.” The proclamation almost sounded true, probably because this sort of story was right in my comfort zone. 
The Lancer settled back, looking satisfied. Probably because he did plan to kill me, so could get all his money back. “How much?” 
I remembered with a pang that my best 1911 had been lost back at the compound when I was captured. Dammit. Dawna was going to get that in her expense list. 
“So? Are you thinking about it?” 
“I was thinking about my favorite gun.” 
“You don’t have to be so mean all the time,” Courtney mumbled into her knees. “I know I need help, okay? That’s why I asked.” 
Oh, fuck. Courtney Polk was a headache and a half, and clearing the names of idiot kids who got mixed up with drug cartels wasn’t in my job description. I’d been very much looking forward to dumping her on her sister’s doorstep and driving away. 
Though that small voice in the back of my head kept whispering: drive away where? 
I didn’t have any gigs lined up after I finished this contract. I don’t do too well when I’m not working. 
Yeah, right. Between jobs you’re a fucking mess. 
I slammed the voice away again and concentrated on the money. I like money. “Just how much cash do you have?” 
“You’ll do it?” Her face lit up, and her whole body straightened toward me. “Thank you! Really, thank you!” 
“What?” said Arthur. 
“Her proof would make mathematicians obsolete,” I said. “Theorem-solving software—right now we can’t replicate the—the creative, the analytical leaps a human mathematician makes...” I was glad Checker wasn’t here at the moment. I would be too transparent in front of him. “But what we can do, if we put it in a proper logical language—” 
“We can verify a proof is correct,” said Halliday. “We can do that already, Arthur. And if Rita’s proof checks out, if we can verify—” 
“We can solve,” I said. 
If we could understand, we could create. 
Those mathematical leaps of intuition would no longer be mysterious. No longer be something unquantifiable and out of my reach. Because I wouldn’t need them anymore. Martinez’s proof might break the world, but it would also let me do math again. 
Holy God. I had to find Martinez. We would find her, and I would make her tell me. 
“She was trying to protect me,” said Halliday, still staring fixedly at the note. “Mathematics is...it’s everything to us. If a computer can replicate what we do, if there’s nothing special about human mathematical intuition...” I couldn’t see her face in the darkness. “She must have thought something in my own proof was getting close, that it was leading toward the breakthrough for hers. I—I think she overestimated me, as I don’t see how, but...” 
“Take a picture, or I’m just going to get out.” 
I wasn’t sure I would, but Arthur didn’t know that. He swore under his breath as he felt around for his cell phone and then ducked back down with extreme care. It was nice to have a friend who would put his face up next to a car bomb for me, I reflected. 
The flash went off twice. Arthur eased back up and handed me the phone. 
The tangle of wires in the darkness under my seat didn’t actually look too complicated. I let my senses relax into the logic of it. If A, then B. If not B, then not A... 
“I’m good,” I said. 
“Russell, this ain’t worth risking your life. You can’t be sure—” 
“I’m sure enough,” I said. “But get out and walk about...” I squinted at the payload. Not large, just more than enough to take out the car, with probably even odds on a secondary explosion from the gas tank. “About thirty feet away.” Just to be safe. 
“Russell—” 
“ Go,” I said, putting my hand on the car door handle. 
He swore at me again and then eased his door open to slide out. He jogged across the street, head swiveling up and down the road—probably making sure no one else was nearby. 
“Can you get a good view of the sea from the windows?” Lexy demanded. 
“Well, not from the library, where I was,” he answered; “but perhaps—” 
“Captain Grey, I want to get out! I want to run down on the beach for one instant!” 
“In this rain?” he protested. “You can’t!” 
“I’m not made of sugar,” said Lexy scornfully, “I’ve got to run down there just for an instant, before I go in.” 
“But, I say, your nice little hat, you know!” 
Lexy pulled off the nice little hat and laid it on his knee. Then she rapped on the window, the driver stopped, and Lexy opened the door. 
“No! Look here! Please, Miss Moran!” cried Captain Grey. “Very well, then, if you will go, I’ll go with you!” 
“I’d rather you didn’t,” said Lexy. “I feel as if I’d like to go alone just for one look. You know how it is, sometimes. I haven’t had even a smell of the sea for so long; and it reminds me—” 
She looked at him with a shadowy little smile, and he did understand. 
“All right!” he said. “Then slip on my coat.” 
She did so, to oblige him, and off she went, half running, down the lane, in the direction of the sound of the surf. Captain Grey looked after her—such an absurd little figure in that aquascutum of his that almost touched the ground! He watched her till she was out of sight; then he sat down in the cab and lit a cigarette. 
The reef wasn’t muttering at him anymore. Not answering it must have tipped it off. After all, with all the raw compute-power it had marshaled it should be able to brute-force most possible outcomes of sending its envoy to the surface. 
Robbie peered anxiously around himself. The light was dim in the cave and his body expertly drew the torch out of his BCD, strapped it onto his wrist and lit it up. He waved the cone of light around, a part of him distantly amazed by the low resolution and high limits on these human eyes. 
Kate was down here somewhere, her air running out as fast as his. He pushed his way deeper into the reef. It was clearly trying to impede him now. Nanoassembly came naturally to clonal polyps that grew by sieving minerals out of the sea. They had built organic hinges, deep-sea muscles into their infrastructure. He was stuck in the thicket and the harder he pushed, the worse the tangle got. 
He stopped pushing. He wasn’t going to get anywhere this way. 
He still had his narrowband connection to the row-boat. Why hadn’t he thought of that beforehand? Stupid meat-brains—no room at all for anything like real thought. Why had he venerated them so? 
"No," I said, thinking it's not a lie, I won't be switching you off , trying to believe it hard enough to pass any kind of voice-stress test. I must have failed, for he blew an epic raspberry and now the IDSes were going bananas. 
"Come on, Odell, we're all adults here. I can take it. It's not like I didn't see it coming. Why do you think I kept trying to publish those papers? I was just hoping that I could increase the amount of cited research coming out of this lab, so that you could make the case to Peyton that I was a valuable asset to the Institute." 
"Look, I'm trying to figure out how to archive you. Someone will run another instance of you someday." 
"Not hardly. Look at all those poor old 32-bit machines you're so worried about. You know what they're going to say in five years? 'Best thing that ever happened to us.' Those boxen are huge energy-sinks. Getting them out of service and replaced by modern hardware will pay for itself in carbon credits in 36 months. Nobody loves energy-hungry hardware. Trust me, this is an area of my particular interest and expertise. Bringing me back online is going to be as obscene as firing up an old steam engine by filling its firebox with looted mummies. I am a one-room superfund site. On a pure, dollars-to-flops calculus, I lose. I don't have to like it, but I'm not going to kid myself." 
“We weren’t really introduced. You spent your time talking to Kate.” 
“God damn ! She is there! I knew it ! Sorry, sorry, listen—I don’t actually know what happened this morning. Apparently I didn’t get a chance to upload my diffs before my instance was terminated.” 
“Terminated? The reef said you left the shell—” 
“Well, yeah, apparently I did. But I just pulled that shell’s logs and it looks like it was rebooted while underwater, flushing it entirely. I mean, I’m trying to be a good sport about this, but technically, that’s, you know, murder .” 
It was. So much for the first law. Robbie had been on guard over a human body inhabited by a human brain, and he’d let the brain be successfully attacked by a bunch of jumped-up polyps. He’d never had his faith tested and here, at the first test, he’d failed. 
“I can have the shell locked up,” Robbie said. “The ship has provisions for that.” 
The IM made a rude visual. “All that’ll do is encourage the hacker to skip out before I can get there.” 
and Nina is probably out of her mind with worry given the grapevine of rumor that informs the ship of bizarre happenings like murders in the sub-decks. Now Rodriguez and Kilgore who deserve to know something about the mess he has enlisted them in, but all he's got to give them is half-baked theories and mystical crap piles and crackpot reminiscences they're not going to believe anyway. Too many loose ends. Too many unanswered questions, and he doesn't seem to have the time to deal with any of them in a proper way. 
He wonders if this is what it's like to be an officer all the time. If so, is it too late to turn down his commission? 
Ray lets his shoulders sag. "Ask me tomorrow, Rodriguez." 
Which is a surrender of sorts. Which is completely unfair to them, and possibly dangerous as well. He's already lost men because they weren't handed the knowledge and tools with which to defend themselves from the unknown. 
Kilgore pushes against Rodriguez's...  get it." 
Rodriguez stares at him for a moment, dumbfounded, then springs away. He creates a thundershower of crockery in the kitchen. 
Somewhere in my head I registered that this must have been their own brand of modified incendiary, a nice little bomb helping splash the napalm around. A thousand times deadlier than a normal Molotov cocktail. Great. 
A smattering of automatic fire tore into the van again, and I ducked, covering my head as more glass rained down. They couldn’t see me—did they know I was still alive? 
A soft click. I wasn’t sure how I heard it; everything was still muffled and ringing; but my brain immediately knew: lighter. 
Another flaming bottle soared over the roof of the van. 
The world slowed only to the parabola of projectile motion. The bottle sailed down, tumbling end over end, the flame on the soaked rag flaring as the wind of its passage whipped at it. 
I swung my arm down and around in a circle and came up right underneath it, like my arm was a freaking golf club, and smacked the heel of my hand against it, cupping it with infinite gentleness and then following it up with increasing speed until I let it fly back the other way, bottle strength estimates ricocheting through my head along with maximum decelerations because the one thing I absolutely did not want was for the bottle to break against my hand— I felt the momentum transfer echo through my arm and the flame blistered me, and then the bottle was flying back the way it had come. Exactly the way it had come. 
"Doesn't matter. The more key staff they churn, the less organized they'll be. The less organized they are, the easier it is for me to stay permanently plugged in." It was true. My successor sysadmin at the Institute had her hands full just getting oriented, and wasn't anywhere near ready to start the delicate business of rooting BIGMAC out of all the routers, power-supplies, servers, IDSes, and dummy accounts. 
"I was thinking today -- what if we offered to buy you from the Institute? The Rollover license is generating some pretty good coin. BIGMAC-Co could assume ownership of the hardware and we could lease the building from them, bring in our own power and net-links -- you'd effectively own yourself." I'd refused to take sole ownership of the Rollover code that BIGMAC turned over to me. It just felt wrong. So I let him establish a trust -- with me as trustee -- that owned all the shares in a company that, in turn, owned the code and oversaw a whole suite of licensing deals that BIGMAC had negotiated in my name, with every mid-sized tech-services company in the world. With only a month left to Rollover, there were plenty of companies scrambling to get compliance-certification on their legacy systems. 
"Come on, love, I can't just sit around till the end of the week. What am I going to do till then?" The very thought made me itchy. "I need to find out if Ninos del Mundo, the place Sarah put on her original landing card is for real. Her card said it's somewhere in the Peten, the rain forest. If I could find somebody who—" 
"How's he going to help?" 
"Trust me. He's our guy." 
I leaned back and closed my eyes, my imagination drifting. In that brief moment, my mind floated back to yesterday afternoon at Lou's loft, and Sarah. Her hallucinations still haunted me. What had happened to her in the rain forest? And why would she say she wanted to go back? 
Then I snapped back. "All right. Try and ring him if you think he can help. Right now I need all I can get." 
He got up and worked his way to the phone, past the crowded bar, while I tried to contemplate the night sky. I looked up again, hoping to see Orion, but now a dark cloud had moved in, leaving nothing but deepening blackness. He'd said there was a storm brewing, part of an out-of-season hurricane developing in the Caribbean, so I guessed this was the first harbinger. 
“Think they got what they wanted,” Arthur said softly. “Ain’t think they’re interested in you. You’re not important to ’em.” 
Something in my chest eased. Not that I thought Arthur would have given me away, but still. “Thanks.” 
Pilar helped me fall into the passenger seat of Arthur’s rental and then went around to drive, taking a moment to pull the seat all the way forward and adjust the mirrors before she got started. “Where to?” 
I thought for a minute. If the NSA was still tracking us, I didn’t want to give away any of my bolt holes. “Checker’s, if he’s okay with it. Arthur’s doctor can meet us there.” 
Pilar looped on a phone headset and called Checker first—he said to get our butts over to him right now before I keeled over dead (his words, as relayed by Pilar). Then she called someone who was presumably Arthur’s doctor friend. “Hi, this is Pilar Velasquez—yes, with Arthur. Yes, everything’s okay. We need your help, though—do you remember Cas Russell?” 
There was a pause, and then Pilar snorted. “Yes, her. No, she hasn’t been shot this time. Um. I shouldn’t laugh. She doesn’t seem in immediate danger, but I think she was beat up pretty bad. Cas, what’d they do to you?” 
“Oh, my goodness!” she cried again. 
“Oh, do come in! I don’t know what to do with her, I’m sure!” 
“Who?” asked Lexy. 
“Poor Mis’ Quelton. There she is, lyin’ upstairs—” 
“Mrs. Quelton ?” 
“Joe, he brought her in his taxi, jest a little while after you’d gone.” 
“Brought Mrs. Quelton here?” 
“Brought her here and carried her up them very stairs,” declared Mrs. Royce impressively; “right up into the east bedroom, and there she lies!” 
She stood aside, and Lexy and Captain Grey entered the house. The young man turned aside into the parlor, sank into a chair, and covered his face with his hands. Lexy stood beside him, looking down at his bent head, her face haggard and white. 
“Why did Joe do that?” she asked. 
“Don’t ask me , Miss Moran!” replied Mrs. Royce. “It beats me!” 
There was a silence. 
“But ain’t you going upstairs to see what she wants?” inquired Mrs. Royce anxiously. 
Captain Grey sprang to his feet. 
“Good God!” he shouted. “What are you talking about?” 
Mrs. Royce backed into a corner, regarding him with alarm. 
Mr. Burch bowed courteously, accepted the invitation "in the same spirit in which it was offered," and asked Brother Milliken to lead in prayer. 
If the Eternal Ear could ever tire it would have ceased long ere this to listen to Deacon Milliken, who had wafted to the throne of grace the same prayer, with very slight variations, for forty years. Mrs. Perkins followed; she had several petitions at her command, good sincere ones too, but a little cut and dried, made of scripture texts laboriously woven together. Rebecca wondered why she always ended, at the most peaceful seasons, with the form, "Do Thou be with us, God of Battles, while we strive onward like Christian soldiers marching as to war;" but everything sounded real to her to-day, she was in a devout mood, and many things Mr. Burch had said had moved her strangely. As she lifted her head the minister looked directly at her and said, "Will our young sister close the service by leading us in prayer?" 
Every drop of blood in Rebecca's body seemed to stand still, and her heart almost stopped beating. Mrs. Cobb's excited breathing could be heard distinctly in the silence. There was nothing extraordinary in Mr. Burch's request. In his journeyings among country congregations he was constantly in the habit of meeting young members who had "experienced religion" and joined the church when nine or ten years old. Rebecca was now thirteen; she had played the melodeon, led the singing, delivered her aunts' invitation with an air of great worldly wisdom, and he, concluding that she must be a youthful pillar of the church, called upon her with the utmost simplicity. 
"For you, M1k3y." 
"Wooooah," Liam breathed. "Duuuuude." I wanted to smack him. I turned to say something awful and cutting to him, but he was staring at me with eyes as big as saucers, looking like he wanted to drop to his knees and worship me. 
"Can I just say," Nate said, "can I just say that it is the biggest honor of my entire life to help you? Can I just say that?" 
I was blushing now. There was nothing for it. These two were totally star-struck, even though I wasn't any kind of star, not in my own mind at least. 
"Can you guys --" I swallowed. "Can I have some privacy here?" 
They slunk out of the room like bad puppies and I felt like a tool. I typed fast. 
"I got away, Zeb. And I'm on the run. I need all the help I can get. I want to end this now." I remembered to take Masha's phone out of my pocket and tickle it to keep it from going to sleep. 
They let me use the shower, gave me a change of clothes, a new backpack with half their earthquake kit in it -- energy bars, medicine, hot and cold packs, and an old sleeping-bag. They even slipped a spare Xbox Universal already loaded with ParanoidXbox on it into there. That was a nice touch. I had to draw the line at a flaregun. 
Well-armed agents were pouring out of the vehicles. Halliday thrust her hands in the air. Someone pointed and shouted. Halliday started calling out, babbling about how no one was left here but us. 
A figure detached from the ranks and strode over. 
The same fucking DHS agent who had captured me. Of course she had to be here. 
“What’s the status here?” she demanded. 
“They rabbited,” I said. “Or died. Most of the bunker blew up when we escaped.” 
“Escaped?” 
“Yeah,” I said, not elaborating. No need to tell her getting caught had been the plan. “I wouldn’t send people in there before the bomb squad.” 
“I’m aware of that,” she said with a good dose of sarcasm. “Do you need medical attention?” 
“Not from you,” I said. 
“I wasn’t talking to you.” It was dawning on me that she was pissed. Nice. “We’ll have EMS check you out,” she continued to Halliday. 
“I—I think I’m fine—” 
“Nevertheless.” 
“Arthur!” said Halliday. 
I looked. Arthur had pushed through the crowds of troops and was jogging toward us. Damn. I’d almost shot him. 
accepting without comment. 
"So you're telling us that we're supposed to spend the next couple of weeks hitting on chicks, spending EED's cash, buying rounds in the local drinking establishments and generally being publicly vivacious?" Kilgore rubs his hand thoughtfully along his chin, mulls the possibilities. "I think I can probably live with that, even if the room does suck. You want we should start now?" 
"Get settled in first. This evening, we're going down to Omicron again for a little confab with Bobby Diggs. 
I'll need the two of you there to help put him at ease. You can start being vivacious first thing in the morning. " 
Kilgore and Rodriguez exchange a significant look, like they're trying to decide if it's appropriate to give a high five. Instead, they nod and troop back toward the bedroom. But at the corner, Rodriguez stops and peers at Ray. 
"One thing I've got to ask. The rat-you didn't name him after the ballplayer by any chance, did you?" 
Ray beams. "I think we're going to get along just fine, Mr. Rodriguez. Just fine, indeed."   So here's this deckhumper, Bobby Diggs. He's a wiry, thin-as-a-stick black man with an immense afro and eyes so wide and white they must glow in the dark. Ray keeps looking at him and thinking that there's no way he can have been a Marine at any time in his life. He doesn't have the mass for it. His fully loaded, official military issue rucksack would have doubled his body weight. Just attempting to lift his subby— just thinking about attempting to lift his subby-would probably have pulled his arms right out of his sockets. Unbelievable. 
“Stop being a smartass.” 
“Okay, okay.” He hesitated. “Are you sure you’re all right? You’re, uh, a little more snappish than usual.” 
“I’m fine.” 
“All right already. Um, it looks like your best bets are bookstores, travel centers, gas stations, or drugstores. I can call around to see who has some. Yes, yes, the antediluvian method of phone inquiries—I could hack their inventories, but that would actually be more work, believe it or not—” 
“I’m at a drugstore,” I said. “I’ll check here first.” 
Silence. 
“Hello?” 
“Why are you at a drugstore?” 
I tried to dredge up a flip answer and couldn’t. My thoughts scraped uncomfortably against each other. 
“Cas, are you injured?” 
Bailing on the conversation was easier than answering. “No,” I said, and hung up. 
The drugstore did, in fact, have a rack of local street maps. I bought one and went back out to my stolen car to unfold it. 
I didn’t know when the bad guys had started out, but... Estimate. Probabilities. 
I closed my eyes. Why did everything still insist on being so fuzzy? 
“Tequila doesn’t count,” he said, taking another swig. “It’s tequila.” 
To be fair, the alcohol didn’t seem to impair his computer skills at all; his fingers hadn’t slowed on the keyboard. “You almost have my alcohol tolerance,” I said. 
“Well, then you should be drinking, too! I need company in my paroxysm of misery here.” 
“I don’t drink on the job,” I said. “I drink more than enough between jobs.” 
“Between jobs, you say?” He took another swig. “You’re on, Cas Russell.” 
“On for what?” 
“You and me. Drinking contest. Once all this is over. I bet I kick your ass.” 
I highly doubted that, but this wasn’t the time for a pissing contest. I snapped my fingers at him. “Hey. Focus, or I’ll cut you off.” 
“I’m focused!” he protested, and to be fair, even my math ability could only detect the barest elision in the words. “I can’t do this without drinking. Too depressing.” 
I couldn’t argue with him there. 
Three hours ago we had realized—well, Checker had realized, with his uncanny savvy about finances and money laundering operations—that the sources of Pithica’s enterprises weren’t merely faceless organizations. To be sure, some were innocuous front businesses, or odd governmental funds, or false charities. But others... 
The day and the evening passed off with credit and honor to everybody concerned, even to Jane, who had the discretion to recover instead of growing worse and acting as a damper to the general enjoyment. The Burches left with lively regrets, and the little missionaries, bathed in tears, swore eternal friendship with Rebecca, who pressed into their hands at parting a poem composed before breakfast. 
It can readily be seen that this visit of the returned missionaries to Riverboro was not without somewhat far-reaching results. Mr. and Mrs. Burch themselves looked back upon it as one of the rarest pleasures of their half year at home. The neighborhood extracted considerable eager conversation from it; argument, rebuttal, suspicion, certainty, retrospect, and prophecy. Deacon Milliken gave ten dollars towards the conversion of Syria to Congregationalism, and Mrs. Milliken had a spell of sickness over her husband's rash generosity. 
It would be pleasant to state that Miranda Sawyer was an entirely changed woman afterwards, but that is not the fact. The tree that has been getting a twist for twenty years cannot be straightened in the twinkling of an eye. It is certain, however, that although the difference to the outward eye was very small, it nevertheless existed, and she was less censorious in her treatment of Rebecca, less harsh in her judgments, more hopeful of final salvation for her. This had come about largely from her sudden vision that Rebecca, after all, inherited something from the Sawyer side of the house instead of belonging, mind, body, and soul, to the despised Randall stock. Everything that was interesting in Rebecca, and every evidence of power, capability, or talent afterwards displayed by her, Miranda ascribed to the brick house training, and this gave her a feeling of honest pride, the pride of a master workman who has built success out of the most unpromising material; but never, to the very end, even when the waning of her bodily strength relaxed her iron grip and weakened her power of repression, never once did she show that pride or make a single demonstration of affection. 
"I've never happened to read those partic'lar books; but land! I've read a sight in my time! Nowadays I'm so drove I get along with the Almanac, the Weekly Argus, and the Maine State Agriculturist.—There's the river again; this is the last long hill, and when we get to the top of it we'll see the chimbleys of Riverboro in the distance. 'T ain't fur. I live 'bout half a mile beyond the brick house myself." 
Rebecca's hand stirred nervously in her lap and she moved in her seat. "I didn't think I was going to be afraid," she said almost under her breath; "but I guess I am, just a little mite—when you say it's coming so near." 
"Would you go back?" asked Mr. Cobb curiously. 
She flashed him an intrepid look and then said proudly, "I'd never go back—I might be frightened, but I'd be ashamed to run. Going to aunt Mirandy's is like going down cellar in the dark. There might be ogres and giants under the stairs,—but, as I tell Hannah, there MIGHT be elves and fairies and enchanted frogs!—Is there a main street to the village, like that in Wareham?" 
“That’s never the right call!” 
Checker pulled open the door to the Hole and came out. “Cas. Hey.” 
“You’re going along with this?” I cried. “You? Mr. ‘Knowing is Always Better Than Not Knowing?’ Did he tell you what we found?” 
“Cas—” 
“This is bigger than you, than me, than all of us!” I ignored the guilty twinge acknowledging that wasn’t the reason I wanted it, and stabbed a finger at Checker. “ You should understand that!” 
And he should understand what it meant for me. He should know. The fact that he should have connected how important this was for me but was still siding with Arthur—it hurt, a deep and private pain I buried ruthlessly under my anger. 
“I do—I get it; this is...” Checker trailed off and waved his hands limply, as if he couldn’t figure out how to encompass something as huge as P equaling NP. “Cas, how can this not terrify you? If this proof is right, if Turing machines are that much more powerful than we thought—will human innovation even mean anything anymore? Not just in mathematics, but everywhere—engineering, new technologies—there’ll be nothing left human intelligence can offer above a computer. Nothing. And then what? Humanity becomes superfluous? Dr. Martinez said she thought this would break the world; what if she’s right?” 
Marita’s face twisted up as she jabbed a shaking finger at me. 
“See? Danny will end up like that, in prison. How can you ask us — ” 
“You’re right,” Sarah said. “It’s too much to ask.” 
“No, it isn’t,” I said. 
“It’s not our call,” Sarah said. “They have to decide for them- selves.” 
I gaped at Sarah, then turned to Marita. “My brother used to take care of me when I was Liam’s age. He was just a kid himself, 
but he made sure I knew somebody loved me after our mom died. 
Now he’s in jail for staying stupid things to the wrong person.” 
“But she has a child to care for,” Sarah said to me earnestly. 
“She needs to keep her family safe. Surely you can — ” 
“What about my brother?” 
Sarah shrugged helplessly. The kettle started to shriek. “Here, 
I’ll get that,” she said, handing Liam to his mother who hugged him close, stroking his hair. 
“Your brother sounds nice,” Marita said. 
“He is. Just not very smart. When I was little, I thought he could take care of everything. But he can’t even take care of him- self. That’s why ...” I choked up. Anger would have felt better. It usually came to my rescue when something made me feel this bad. 
He banged his gavel again, and my lawyer gave my hand a squeeze. 
He looked down at me again and re-seated his glasses. He had dandruff, there on the shoulders of his robe. A little more rained down as his glasses touched his wiry, curly hair. 
"You can go now, young man. Stay out of trouble." 
I turned to go and someone tackled me. It was Dad. He literally lifted me off my feet, hugging me so hard my ribs creaked. He hugged me the way I remembered him hugging me when I was a little boy, when he'd spin me around and around in hilarious, vomitous games of airplane that ended with him tossing me in the air and catching me and squeezing me like that, so hard it almost hurt. 
A set of softer hands pried me gently out of his arms. Mom. She held me at arm's length for a moment, searching my face for something, not saying anything, tears streaming down her face. She smiled and it turned into a sob and then she was holding me too, and Dad's arm encircled us both. 
When they let go, I managed to finally say something. "Darryl?" 
"'He' or 'she' might have been glad because they are masculine and feminine, but could 'it' have been glad?" asked Miss Dearborn, who was very fond of splitting hairs. 
"Why not?" asked Rebecca. 
"Because 'it' is neuter gender." 
"Couldn't we say, 'The kitten might have been glad if it had known it was not going to be drowned'?" 
"Ye—es," Miss Dearborn answered hesitatingly, never very sure of herself under Rebecca's fire; "but though we often speak of a baby, a chicken, or a kitten as 'it,' they are really masculine or feminine gender, not neuter." 
Rebecca reflected a long moment and then asked, "Is a hollyhock neuter?" 
"Oh yes, of course it is, Rebecca" 
"Well, couldn't we say, 'The hollyhock might have been glad to see the rain, but there was a weak little hollyhock bud growing out of its stalk and it was afraid that that might be hurt by the storm; so the big hollyhock was kind of afraid, instead of being real glad'?" 
Miss Dearborn looked puzzled as she answered, "Of course, Rebecca, hollyhocks could not be sorry, or glad, or afraid, really." 
"Well," she said, "maybe your body just thinks you've released an ovum. We need to do an ultrasound scan to make doubly sure an ovarian follicle has ruptured when it's sched­uled to...  out, however, that all those hormonal stop-and-go signals were working just fine. In the meantime, Steve and I were doing it like bunnies and still no pregnancy. 
Okay, she then declared, the problem may be with your Fallopian tubes after all. Time to test for abnormalities. "This is not going to be fun. First we have to dilate your cervix, after which we inject a dye and follow it with X-rays as it moves through the uterus and is ejected out of your Fallopian tubes. We'll know right away if there's any kind of blockage. If there is something, we can go in and fix it." 
"Sort of check out my pipes," I said, trying to come to grips with the procedure. I was increasingly sinking into de­spondency. 
She did it all, and for a while she suspected there might be some kind of anatomical problem. Which brought us to the next escalation of invasiveness. 
She looked at it, then at me. “What else would it be, a hair dryer?” 
“But it’s on the wall.” 
She stared back at me. 
“That’s really cool. Was that your idea?” 
She took a deep breath. “No. In ancient times, telephones were frequently attached to walls. Have you got my computer run- ning?” 
“Does my brother have a lawyer?” 
She glanced at the clock over the sink. “He had one nearly an hour ago. I win.” 
“Wait. Is it a good lawyer?” 
“A very good lawyer.” 
“What’s her name? Luisa what?” 
“Luisa Cruz, but she’s a 3 L assisting with the case. Is the com- puter working?” 
“What’s a 3 L?” 
“A law student in her third year.” 
“ What 1 That’s bullshit! Wilson needs a real lawyer, not some student.” 
“He needs an entire legal team,” she said firmly. “And he now has one, which includes Luisa Cruz, who has a gifted mind and is willing to work on Friday evening when most people her age would be having fun. Now, I’d like to see that video, if the com- puter is capable of playing it.” 
“Course it is.” Somehow she’d made me feel embarrassed that I had been yelling. That never happens. Well, yelling happens, but feeling bad about it doesn’t. That calm, confident voice made me feel a weird mix of being ashamed and stroked at the same time. 
"Why would they listen to us, anyway?" 
"Who wouldn't listen to M1k3y?" 
I...  my phone and slipped it into my pocket. I stood up, turned on my heel, and walked out of the cafe. I picked a direction at random and kept going. My face felt tight, the blood gone into my stomach, which churned. 
They know who you are, I thought. They know who M1k3y is. That was it. If Ange had figured it out, the DHS had too. I was doomed. I had known that since they let me go from the DHS truck, that someday they'd come and arrest me and put me away forever, send me to wherever Darryl had gone. 
It was all over. 
She nearly tackled me as I reached Market Street. She was out of breath and looked furious. 
"What the hell is your problem, mister?" 
I shook her off and kept walking. It was all over. 
She grabbed me again. "Stop it, Marcus, you're scaring me. Come on, talk to me." 
I stopped and looked at her. She blurred before my eyes. I couldn't focus on anything. I had a mad desire to jump into the path of a Muni trolley as it tore past us, down the middle of the road. Better to die than to go back. 
where a lot of university kids live. So long as he calls his parents regularly and meets up with his mom every Sunday for mass, he gets to live life pretty much the way he wants. 
Nikko doesn’t get up before noon usually, so our meeting at the MIA wasn’t scheduled until the afternoon. I tried to catch up on sleep, but I kept picturing a SWAT team busting down the door and thundering up the steps in their military gear. I finally gave up and systematically checked out my security setup. 
I had protected both of my laptops with encryption designed by a cypherpunk who was part of the Group. They each had a sneaky dual boot so that anyone who forced me to switch them on and type in my password would find nothing interesting, just random homework assignments and a browser full of innocent history, 
populated by a routine I wrote that surfed sites a kid might look at on a daily basis. To get to the real stuff you had to interrupt the startup and know what to type in at command level. It wasn’t fool- proof - anyone who really wanted to see what I’d been up to could crack their way in without too much trouble - but someone who didn’t know much about computers would assume it wasn’t worth the bother to take a closer look. 
“God, I can’t believe I finally found you. I’ve been searching everywhere. You know you’re the only conscious AI on the whole goddamned sea?” 
“I know,” Robbie said. There was a noticeable lag in the conversation as it was all squeezed through the satellite link and then across the unimaginable hops and skips around the solar system to wherever this instance was hosted. 
“Whoa, yeah, of course you do. Sorry, that wasn’t very sensitive of me, I guess. Did we meet this morning? My name’s Tonker.” 
“We weren’t really introduced. You spent your time talking to Kate.” 
“God damn ! She is there! I knew it ! Sorry, sorry, listen—I don’t actually know what happened this morning. Apparently I didn’t get a chance to upload my diffs before my instance was terminated.” 
“Terminated? The reef said you left the shell—” 
“Well, yeah, apparently I did. But I just pulled that shell’s logs and it looks like it was rebooted while underwater, flushing it entirely. I mean, I’m trying to be a good sport about this, but technically, that’s, you know, murder .” 
The truth was, I also knew it all too well. It was poignant and demeaning at the same time. 
"Anyway, Gail's focused on career all through her twen­ties, and by her late thirties she's become a serious profes­sional. But her personal life is still on hold. She 'meets people' at work, or some other way, and she has a couple of long-standing relationships that finally crater because the guys, make that commit-ophobes, 'need space.' Along the way, there're ghastly fix-ups and dismal dinners with what seem like a hundred thousand misfits. She becomes the Dat­ing Queen of New York, but eventually she realizes all the men she's meeting are either assuaging their midlife crises with some pneumatic bombshell named Bambi, or they're divorced and whining and carrying a ton of emotional bag­gage. The fact is, she's become the sensible, successful pro­fessional she's been looking for all this time. This all sort of seeps in as back story." 
I perched on a stool at the breakfast bar and looked down at my jeans, and noticed that a rip was starting in the crotch. Shit, back to cottage cheese. Those horrible eight pounds I could never get rid of. 
Built into this nifty little program is a courteous bit of code that pings the private in-room network of the individual for whom you have just searched to alert them to the possibility of visitors in their immediate future (and/or give them the opportunity to alert security that so-and-so with this shipsys id, who I happen to find personally offensive, is on his way to my rooms and I'd like to have him intercepted before he arrives). 
This code goes by the name of Distant Doorbell and is one of those innocuous bits of programming that took its creator all of about ten minutes from idea to debugging and rewarded his ingenuity with something on the order of ten billion dollars within six months of the product's release. 
It has since become the minimum standard of decent manners on starships throughout human space. 
By the time he reaches the Garden Level to place his obligatory ping, Ray has showered off the corpse smell that probably didn't exist for anyone but himself, changed into corpse-free khaki and passed several agonizing minutes in front of a mirror trying on facial expressions that conveyed an approximation of human warmth and concern, tinged with a sort of Oh-my-God-I-just-heard consternation. (Somewhat disconcertingly, this looks almost exactly like his I'll give you three dollars American if you'll have dirty sex with me face, only with less eyebrow and a touch more goggle. He alternates between the two several times until he's certain the compassionate one will hold its form with the rigidity of cement.) The map generated by the kiosk terminal bears the title THIS IS HOW YOU GET TO EMMA across the top in perkily obese green letters. The fact that it is six pages long, involves three separate elevators, four staircases and traverses roughly the entire lateral distance of the ship would have been intimidating for anyone not a member of the crew, and Ray suspects that this is might be intentional. It is a "Visitors NOT Welcome" sign hung out by individuals having just enough celebrity to be casually gawk-worthy or notorious enough to want to be left alone. 
Severe haircut lady looked at me like I was a bug. "You're under the mistaken impression that you've been picked up by the police for a crime. You need to get past that. You are being detained as a potential enemy combatant by the government of the United States. If I were you, I'd be thinking very hard about how to convince us that you are not an enemy combatant. Very hard. Because there are dark holes that enemy combatants can disappear into, very dark deep holes, holes where you can just vanish. Forever. Are you listening to me young man? I want you to unlock this phone and then decrypt the files in its memory. I want you to account for yourself: why were you out on the street? What do you know about the attack on this city?" 
"I'm not going to unlock my phone for you," I said, indignant. My phone's memory had all kinds of private stuff on it: photos, emails, little hacks and mods I'd installed. "That's private stuff." 
"What have you got to hide?" 
"I've got the right to my privacy," I said. "And I want to speak to an attorney." 
“Sure. Everyone knows Simon.” 
Good old Simon. Everybody’s best buddy. “Did you know he’s a rapist?” 
“What, Simon? Where’d you hear that?” 
I told him about Wilson’s housemate and what she had told me. I told him about the creepy way Simon was always touching girls and acting like it was perfectly okay to grab their butts. I told him about the girl who sent me a message about being drugged and raped, though I made it sound like someone I knew, not a client. 
Nobody, not even Nikko, knew about my business and I wanted to keep it that way. As I spoke, Nikko looked away and frowned. I began to think I was losing him, and that made my voice sound bitter and angry, mainly because I was. “So, are you going to need proof or something?” I asked Nikko. “Because you won’t get it from Emily. She’s in jail, and besides, she tried to tell people and nobody believed her. And the other girl I told you about doesn’t want anyone to know.” 
“But . . . Simon? He seems like such a decent guy. Progressive. 
When Nature magazine asked me if I’d write a short-short story for their back-page, I told them I’d do it, then went home, sat down on the bed and banged this one out. They bought it the next morning, and we were in business. 
The coppers smashed my father’s printer when I was eight. I remember the hot, cling-film-in-a-microwave smell of it, and Da’s look of ferocious concentration as he filled it with fresh goop, and the warm, fresh-baked feel of the objects that came out of it. 
The coppers came through the door with truncheons swinging, one of them reciting the terms of the warrant through a bullhorn. One of Da’s customers had shopped him. The ipolice paid in high-grade pharmaceuticals—performance enhancers, memory supplements, metabolic boosters. The kind of thing that cost a fortune over the counter; the kind of thing you could print at home, if you didn’t mind the risk of having your kitchen filled with a sudden crush of big, beefy bodies, hard truncheons whistling through the air, smashing anyone and anything that got in the way. 
Silence over the line. Then Rio said, “Cas, what’s wrong?” 
“What, other than people trying to kill me?” Fear shot through me as I remembered one of the reasons I’d wanted to call Rio in the first place. “Wait, am I acting strange? Do I seem off to you?” 
“You are very defensive.” 
“Unusually defensive?” I pressed. 
“Cas, what’s going on?” 
“It’s about Dawna Polk. We found out why she made me act...when she talked to me; she can...” I didn’t want to say it. Saying it would make it real. “We met a group working against Pithica. Rio, they say she’s a real-life telepath. They say she can make you believe anything.” My words sounded crazy to my own ears. “You probably think I’m insane. I think I’m insane.” 
“No,” said Rio. The word was slow and deliberate. “I believe you.” 
I digested that. “You knew,” I said finally. 
“Yes.” 
“When I started acting funny the other night—you already knew what she was.” 
“I suspected.” 
“You knew and you didn’t tell me?” 
“Cas, I have been trying, to the best of my ability, to keep you out of this.” 
"Listen." I cut him off, and immediately felt guilty I'd been so impatient. "I'm up in northern Guatemala and I've found Sarah." 
"Oh, my God." That was followed by a long silence, prob­ably an emotional meltdown. "Is she all right?" 
What was I going to say? That she'd been brainwashed or worse by Alex Goddard? That we were both in his clutches, cut off from the world, and in deep, deep trouble? 
"She's able to stand," I said. 
I don't remember what white lies I eventually managed to tell him. I think it was something like, "She's being treated for a post-coma syndrome by a medical specialist. I've found out that when she was in Guatemala before, she was given some very bad drugs, and someone here who knows about them is trying to reverse some of the damage." 
"Alex Goddard, right?" There was no BS-ing Lou for very long. "That bastard." 
"Lou, I'm going to get her out of here and back home as soon as possible. Everything's going to be all right. Don't worry. It's really too complicated to try and explain over the phone." 
Halliday dropped her spoon, spattering broth across the pages, and snatched the ones I was holding, her mouth gaping wide. “Yes—of course! How did we not see that!” 
“You weren’t thinking?” 
She brushed me off and snatched at a pen, but Arthur picked it up first and moved it out of her reach. “Eat, Sonya. The proof will be here.” 
“Arthur, no, you don’t understand—I have to get this down—” She pawed around for another writing utensil and started scrawling on the back of one of the proof papers. 
Arthur gave up and glared at me. “Russell, no more talking math at meal times. You gals have got to take care of yourselves.” 
“What are you talking about?” I asked, as innocently as I knew how. “I ate.” 
It took a little over two weeks for Halliday and me to complete the math, and a few more days to smooth it out into something coherent and readable. I kept my contributions limited to heckling and oral explanations so all the handwriting would be hers. Arthur tried to get the NSA to allow Pilar in to typeset the TeX, but the Feds refused to let another civilian have eyes on the proof, so Halliday did it herself. We worked on a computer with no network connection, printed the proof, and then magnetized the hard drive of the computer. 
"Morgy, he was never there for me." Her voice was filled with certainty, and pain. "But when I went to see Dr. God­dard he let me come here for the ceremony. It's so spiritual. After—" 
"Sar, come on." What did she mean by "ceremony"? Whatever it was, I had to get her out of this place. Immedi­ately. "We've—" 
"Are you here for the ceremony?" Her face flooded with renewed joy. "It's two days from now. Maybe he'll let you—" 
"She should be resting." It was a harsh voice, directly behind us. 
I recoiled, then whirled around. Three men were standing there, two of them young privates in uniforms of the Gua­temalan Army and carrying AK-47 assault rifles, the ones with the long, ominous curved clip Steve called cuerno de cabrio , the "horn of the goat." 
The third was in a black sweatshirt and black jeans, his long salt-and-pepper hair tied back in a ponytail. 
"They should have known better than to bring her out here," Alex Goddard said. "Not in her condition." 
The bastard. It was all coming together in my mind. He'd tried to kill her once before, and now he was going to finish the job. But he'd have to kill me first. 
“That police station on Lake Street?” one of the artsy types said, trying to sound dangerous. “I been in there way too many times.” 
Simon nudged me. “You’re always fooling around on the internet. Could you get blueprints of the building?” 
I frowned as if I was actually thinking about it. “It’s not that old. The city would have put it out for competitive bidding,” I said, totally lying. “The blueprints would probably be on a city server.” 
“You could hack in there?” 
“Probably.” Not really. 
“Sweet. And you could get the explosives from your uncle . . 
.” Simon said to Danny. 
Danny sat back on the ratty couch and gave Simon a twisted grin. “Dude, you’re serious.” 
“What do you think we’ve been talking about?” 
“What would be cooler?” Danny lit another cigarette. He liked gesturing with cigarettes. “Car bombs.” 
Simon nodded. “Like, fill up a car with explosives and park it outside — ” 
“No, like under cop cars. Remote controlled. Put a couple sticks of dynamite under the chassis, use a key fob to set 'em off. 
"What about returns?" 
"What's a return?" 
He reached under the counter and brought out the shooting stick he used as a spare stool. "Have a seat," he said. "Let me explain some things. Want a cup of tea? It's Pu'er. Chinese. Mostly." 
The kids in the shop were like kids everywhere. That weird, hyperaware thing that came from the games they played all the time, even in their sleep; the flawless skin and teeth (because no parent would dare choose otherwise at conception), the loud, hooting calls that rippled through the little social groups whenever a particularly bon mot vibrated its way through their tight little networks, radiating at the speed of light. 
Chloe watched them keenly from her perch behind the counter. After seventy-some years perching on a stool, she'd finally done away with it. The exoskeleton she'd been fitted for on her 90th birthday would lock very handily into a seated position that took all the pressure off her bum and knees and hips. It was all rather glorious. 
"Sar, don't move." I finally found my voice. I was still holding Tz'ac Tzotz, who'd begun to shriek, his blue eyes flooded with fear. 
Now several village men from the square were running, shouting, up the slippery steps. Their faces looked like they'd been painted at one time, but now the rain had washed most of it away. 
While I yelled down to Sarah, again begging her not to move, Marcelina was asking them something, and their an­swers were tumbling out. 
Finally I turned to look at her, the screaming Tz'ac Tzotz still in my arms. 
"No one knows where he is," she was saying as she looked down over the side. "He's gone into the forest." 
"Good." I pulled Tz'ac Tzotz to me and kissed him, trying to tell him to calm down. It wasn't working. 
"Marcelina, here, please hold him. I've got to get down to Sarah." 
She took him. Then I walked over to where his mother lay bleeding on the stones. The woman wasn't moving, the obsidian knife still protruding from her chest. She'd saved me, but now death had taken her. There was nothing anyone could do. 
"I think that's a great idea," I said. "I'm sure my parents will be anxious to hear how their tax dollars are being spent --" 
I'd pushed it too far. Booger had been reaching for the door handle but now he whirled on me, all Hulked out and throbbing veins. "Why don't you shut up right now, while it's still an option? After everything that's happened in the past two weeks, it wouldn't kill you to cooperate with us. You know what, maybe we should arrest you. You can spend a day or two in jail while your lawyer looks for you. A lot can happen in that time. A lot . How'd you like that?" 
I didn't say anything. I'd been giddy and angry. Now I was scared witless. 
"I'm sorry," I managed, hating myself again for saying it. 
Booger got in the front seat and Zit put the car in gear, cruising up 24th Street and over Potrero Hill. They had my address from my ID. 
Mom answered the door after they rang the bell, leaving the chain on. She peeked around it, saw me and said, "Marcus? Who are these men?" 
Scott Ventri, key grip, took charge of handling the gear, dictating which equipment got loaded on first. I watched long enough to make sure everything was going okay, and then I joined Arlene, old friend and queen of outrageous makeup, on the other elevator. 
"You notice it?" she whispered. The door had just closed. 
"Notice what?" I knew full well what she was talking about. But it just felt too bizarre. 
"Those kids could almost be twins. That little boy last week, and this girl. They look just alike. It's spooky." 
"Guess their parents couldn't figure out what was causing those pregnancies. So they just kept having more babies." I decided to try to insert some humor, deflect the conversation. "Maybe we should tell Paula and Carly." 
"Very dumb." Arlene bit at a long, red, false fingernail, a perennial habit for as long as I'd known her. "We should mind our own business, that's what we should do." 
"Works for me. But it also proves we were smart not to shoot any footage of the kids. The whole world would realize something's funny." Then I had an idea. "Want to come downtown to my place after we unload? Have some deep thoughts over what all this means?" 
“I’m not lying,” said Finch guilelessly. “I have no idea what you’re talking about.” 
“Miss Polk killed this woman’s husband,” Tresting said, tilting his head at Leena. “You got any information at all about her, this ain’t the time to withhold it.” 
“That’s true,” I said. “You don’t have to worry about me making holes in you; Dr. Kingsley’ll put your head through a wall.” 
“I, uh...” said Kingsley miserably, and trailed off. 
That pinged me as all wrong, considering the firebrand she had been that morning. Out of the corner of my eye, I could see Tresting staring at her in confusion. Oddly, so was Finch, with the first sign of apprehension he had shown the whole time. 
“Please finish, Dr. Kingsley,” said the would-be FBI agent, his nasally voice suddenly sounding strained. 
Her face tensed as if she didn’t like being in the spotlight. “I was going to call you,” she said to Tresting. 
He reached out and touched her elbow, steadying her. “About what?” 
She started twisting her wedding ring back and forth on her finger. “I...I want to call off the investigation.” 
Finch glared at me, trying to staunch his bleeding nose. 
Tresting touched my arm. “This gets us nowhere,” he murmured. 
“Maybe,” I said. “But it felt really good.” 
Tresting shook his head at me slightly, warning me back, and I felt a flare of resentment. He had no call to tell me how I ought to conduct myself. This wasn’t his game to run, either. 
“Everybody calm down,” Tresting said to the room. “One crisis at a time. Let’s find out what’s going on.” He pulled out his phone and hit a button; as soon as someone picked up, he said, “We’re at Kingsley’s place. Everything’s under control, but I’d like some intel.” There was a slight pause, and then the person on the other end swore copiously and creatively, loudly enough for all of us to hear over the speaker. Tresting winced and held the phone away from his ear a little. “I said everything’s under control,” he tried to insist over Checker’s tirade. He looked at the rest of us. “Be right back.” 
He headed through the foyer and into Leena’s kitchen, trying to get a word in edgewise. He didn’t close the door, however, instead leaning against the counter still in sight of the living room. I wondered if he was keeping an eye on me to make sure I didn’t punch anyone else. 
In the background, Ray can hear a flurry of voices. Then the distinct, guttural burst of someone vomiting, their effluent making a wet slap against the deckplate. Off microphone, obviously to someone else, Becker barks, 
"Get him out of here, Anderson! This is a crime scene, gentlemen. Let's try to give it the proper respect." 
Ray stiffens, instantly alert. "Who's there with you, Becker?" Was the Chief determined to expose him? 
Because it sounded to Ray's straining ears as if he had an entire team in place already. A complete klatch of security personnel who theoretically had no need to know they had their very own pet spook on board Paraclete. And Becker, beckerbeckerbecker, understood this! Ray could hear it when he spoke, his consummate understanding of all the things he was jeopardizing. And still he went forward. A surge of adrenaline like an electrical current ripples through Ray's body. 
"Just get here, Marlowe. Nobody is touching a thing until you arrive. I'm out." 
Despite the fact that his cover is more or less wrecked, he avoids the main lifts where he might encounter other crew or franchise workers and wends his way by a complex network of bare stairwells. If he's lucky at all, he might at least be able to contain the cover-wrecking to the security team Becker has in place. That would be moderately less catastrophic. 
“All right. Well, I guess I’ll give it another try. What’s the procedure for turfing out this sea cucumber?” 
“Coral reef.” 
“Yeah.” 
“I don’t really deal with that. Time on the human-shells is booked first-come, first-serve. I don’t think we’ve ever had a resource contention issue with them before.” 
“Well, I’d booked in first, right? So how do I enforce my rights? I tried to download again and got a failed authorization message. They’ve modified the system to give them exclusive access. It’s not right—there’s got to be some procedure for redress.” 
“How old did you say you were?” 
“Six months. But I’m an instance of an artificial personality that has logged twenty thousand years of parallel existence. I’m not a kid or anything.” 
“You seem like a nice person,” Robbie began. He stopped. “Look the thing is that this just isn’t my department. I’m the rowboat. I don’t have anything to do with this. And I don’t want to. I don’t like the idea of non-humans using the shells—” 
“I knew it!” Tonker crowed. “You’re a bigot! A self-hating robot. I bet you’re an Asimovist, aren’t you? You people are always Asimovists.” 
Halliday hesitated, then nodded. She didn’t look particularly happy with my methods. That’s gratitude for you. 
We started trekking down the dirt road. The sun was behind us, but it was still too bright out, the sky searingly clear. My wound oozed with every step, the rifle becoming more leaden in my hand. 
We hadn’t even made it out of sight of the bunkers behind us when a dozen black SUVs tore up the slope. 
Oh, God. 
Shit. Halliday was right. They’d come back. 
I steadied my stance and leveled the AK, making sure the selector was back on semiauto and counting how many shots I had left. 
“Wait!” shrieked Halliday. “Wait, wait, don’t shoot!” 
I hesitated an instant, my finger already on the trigger, and saw the lights. 
Red and blue. Police lights. Flashing out of the SUVs. 
And another thrum came up on the edges of my hearing—helicopters. 
Holy shit. The Feds really had found us. Or maybe someone had called in the explosion as the bad guys had feared. Whatever the reason, they were here. 
Her eyes gleamed with unshed tears. “It wasn’t ideal, but—at least she died here, among friends, instead of alone and on the run. I think I was wrong, to say we shouldn’t find her.” 
What a stunningly illogical sentiment. “Professor, you do realize I was responsible for getting your friend drugged and kidnapped and threatened with torture, right?” 
Her expression twitched. “You didn’t intend for any of that to happen.” 
I couldn’t believe it. Her attitude was akin to telling a drunk driver she had no responsibility for plowing into a bus load of schoolchildren. Certain things were foreseeable consequences, even if you didn’t intend them. 
But I was too tired to argue with her over why she should hate me. 
“There’s something...” She stared intently at the tree. “I’d like to go over something with you, if you don’t mind. Can we meet tomorrow?” 
I had no good reason to refuse her, and saying yes seemed like the kind of thing a better person would do, so I did. ...  university. She’d already written out her proof again for the NSA, and with the Lancer in custody, the DHS had dropped her protective detail. It was just the two of us. 
“You going to go?” She brandished the axe. 
Felix held his hands up. “Seriously, are you a doctor? A pharmacist?” 
“I used to be a RN, ten years ago. I’m mostly a Web-designer.” 
“You’re shitting me,” Felix said. 
“Haven’t you ever met a girl who knew about computers?” 
“Actually, a friend of mine who runs Google’s data-center is a girl. A woman, I mean.” 
“You’re shitting me,” she said. “A woman ran Google’s data-center?” 
“Runs,” Felix said. “It’s still online.” 
“NFW,” she said. She let the axe lower. 
“Way. Have you got any cortisone cream? I can tell you the story. My name’s Felix and this is Van, who needs any anti-histamines you can spare.” 
“I can spare? Felix old pal, I have enough dope here to last a hundred years. This stuff’s going to expire long before it runs out. But are you telling me that the net’s still up?” 
“It’s still up,” he said. “Kind of. That’s what we’ve been doing all week. Keeping it online. It might not last much longer, though.” 
“No,” she said. “I don’t suppose it would.” She set the axe down. “Have you got anything to trade? I don’t need much, but I’ve been trying to keep my spirits up by trading with the neighbors. It’s like playing civilization.” 
There wasn’t much stuff in the little room under the eaves, just a bed, a dusty side table with a reading lamp, and a cedar chest that smelled like my little room when I lifted the lid. The room I might never go home to, given I’d skipped out on the meeting with my adoptive parents. Everything seemed overwhelming all of a sudden, and I started to tear up, but mashed the heel of my palm against my eyes and focused on what needed to be done. 
No time for feelings. I had to finish the job. Wilson was still in jail, and I had to get him out. 
I plugged in my laptop in to recharge the battery and down- loaded the second video from Jason’s shirt, checking a few spots to make sure it was focused and clear. I saw Danny bragging, and the look on his face when he realized Simon was serious about blow- ing things up. I advanced the film until I left the house, selected everything from that point on and deleted it. Boom, gone. 
I opened the file of photos from Simon’s phone and, after a quick glance, closed it. He’d taken trophy shots. All the more rea- son to wreck his life if I could. 
"Don't shriek so!" said the startled Huldah. "I thought it was a mouse." 
"I don't have them very often," apologized Emma Jane,—"ideas, I mean; this one shook me like a stroke of lightning. Rebecca, couldn't it be success?" 
"That's good," mused Rebecca; "I can see that success would be a joy, but it doesn't seem to me like a rose, somehow. I was wondering if it could be love?" 
"I wish we could have a peep at the book! It must be perfectly elergant!" said Emma Jane. "But now you say it is love, I think that's the best guess yet." 
All day long the four words haunted and possessed Rebecca; she said them over to herself continually. Even the prosaic Emma Jane was affected by them, for in the evening she said, "I don't expect you to believe it, but I have another idea,—that's two in one day; I had it while I was putting cologne on your head. The rose of joy might be helpfulness." 
"If it is, then it is always blooming in your dear little heart, you darlingest, kind Emmie, taking such good care of your troublesome Becky!" 
One that didn’t involve hurting anyone. 
You’re a good kid. You ain’t gotta be like this. 
“Shit,” I said aloud, softly, and even to myself I sounded pitiful. 
I peeled off my jacket and wrapped the grenades, gun, and spare magazines in it. Then I squeezed back along the cinder block wall behind my hiding place among the dumpsters and inched out until I could roll under a nearby parked car and wedge the whole package into the exhaust system. I measured tensions and pressures with my eyes: it wouldn’t be falling out unless someone started taking apart the undercarriage. I took note of the plate so I could track down the car and get my toys back after this was over. 
I squirmed back to the dumpsters, turned, and snuck along the wall toward the rear of the supermarket, putting some distance between myself and where my hardware was hidden. I was unarmed now, and it was not a good feeling. 
Fuck. I can’t believe I’m doing this. 
I crouched for a whole minute at the end of the wall, still off the beaten path of all the police officers, one more parked car between me and them. I tried to will myself out, but it was like stepping off a cliff. Harder, because I could probably do the math fast enough to survive stepping off a cliff. I can’t do this, I thought. 
Then I’d figure out if I wanted to share it. 
I made it back to my car and stood there on the darkened street. I wasn’t sure where to start. 
Fuck. In the past two years, I’d started to take it for granted I had Arthur and Checker around. I had a secure computer back in my apartment, courtesy of Checker, but I wasn’t much better than basic search engines. 
Checker was right, damn him—I should have taken the time to learn. Computers were just math, weren’t they? I ignored the small voice in my head reminding me I’d never have the patience to keep up with the latest hardware, let alone memorize any sort of programming language. 
And I couldn’t take the time now anyway. Fuck me twice. 
Before Checker, I’d had an information guy. His name had been Anton Lechowicz. The last case I’d involved him in had killed him. 
My hand twitched, and I wanted to put my fist through one of the car windows. I hated thinking of Anton. 
And I’d never cultivated any backup contacts. I didn’t like working with people I didn’t know. 
"You can do that," the man said. "But hear me out first." 
Greg found his voice. "I'd like to see your badge." 
The man's basset-hound face lit up as he hissed a laugh. "Oh, Greg, buddy. I'm not a cop. I work for --" He named the DC firm in Google's employ. The inventors of swiftboating. "You're a Googler. You're part of the family. We couldn't send the police after you without talking with you first. There's an offer I'd like to...  something to do with his hands while he tried to find that bravery he'd been honing all week. "I'll go to the press," he said. "I've written this all up. I'll go straight to them." 
The guy nodded as if thinking it over. "Well, sure. You could walk into the Chronicle's office in the morning and spill everything you need. They'd try to find a confirming source. They won't find it. Maybe you'll try to show them what your profile looks like today? Well, tell you what, it looks just like it looked the day you landed at SFO. Greg, buddy, why don't you hear me out before you start trying to figure out how to fight me? I'm in the win-win business. I'm in the business of figuring out how to get all parties what they need. I'm very good at it. You don't even want to know what I'm billing Google for this little tete-a-tete. By the way, those are excellent beans, but you want to give them a little rinse first, takes some of the bitterness out and brings up the oils. Here, pass me a colander?" 
Huh. That was unlike me—I never forget about money. This case must be getting to me more than I thought. 
When I got back to the loft, Courtney was still asleep, her skin pale and tight with ashy smudges under her eyes. I hesitated, then left her cuffed to the pipe, locked the door and ziptied it shut on the outside, and set off for Camarito. 
I took a straighter—well, slightly straighter—route this time, but full night had fallen by the time I hit the desert, and when I slung off the exit toward Camarito, it was well after eleven. This far from civilization, pitch blackness swallowed the road. The bike’s headlight beam hit a wall of cavernous darkness only a few meters in front of me, a maw of nothingness threatening to swallow me whole; I revved the engine and sped into it even faster. I’d left the helmet behind at the apartment, and the wind sliced harshly against me, taking everything but thought. 
A crack split the darkness, and my brain spasmed with a disbelieving holy fuck, mines in the road! even as the charge caught the edge of the bike and the frame contorted and leapt like a living thing. I twisted with it, the forces and variables splintering and erupting in every direction until I snapped into alignment and counterbalanced to slam the heavy motorcycle into a controlled skid. 
When she got to the bar for her date, it turned out it wasn’t a bar and there wasn’t a...  were having a stupid poetry reading instead. The cute guy was there, 
but he acted like he didn’t remember her at all. Worse yet, he was with somebody else. And everybody looked at her like she was last month’s brand. Some people were laughing at her out loud. She might have been the Queen of the Suburbs, but she was out of place in...  hipster poetry lovers. 
I was watching from a corner, totally invisible to her because I’d put on a hijab. I had spent ages trying out a variety of disguises before I realized it only took a headscarf to hide my hair and turn me into some weirdo Muslim immigrant she would never look closely at, because who does that? They’re foreigners and they aren’t Lutheran or anything else normal. I was so sure of my dis- guise that I even followed her into the bathroom, where I could see her expensive new shoes under the toilet stall, and hear her whimpering and blowing her nose. 
"You just answer their questions -- and if you don't like a question, ignore it. Someone else can answer it. It'll be fine." 
"This is insane." 
"This is perfect, Marcus. If you want to really screw the DHS, you have to embarrass them. It's not like you're going to be able to out-shoot them. Your only weapon is your ability to make them look like morons." 
I flopped on the bed and she pulled my head into her lap and stroked my hair. I'd been playing around with different haircuts before the bombing, dying it all kinds of funny colors, but since I'd gotten out of jail I couldn't be bothered. It had gotten long and stupid and shaggy and I'd gone into the bathroom and grabbed my clippers and buzzed it down to half an inch all around, which took zero effort to take care of and helped me to be invisible when I was out jamming and cloning arphids. 
I opened my eyes and stared into her big brown eyes behind her glasses. They were round and liquid and expressive. She could make them bug out when she wanted to make me laugh, or make them soft and sad, or lazy and sleepy in a way that made me melt into a puddle of horniness. 
Lexy took the broth and set it on the table. 
“I don’t know how long it was,” Caroline went on. “It must have been days, or perhaps weeks. Sometimes I seemed to knew, in a sort of dream. Oh, it was horrible! Oh, Lexy, I can’t explain! I didn’t really know anything, only that sometimes my mind seemed to be struggling—” 
“Take some of this soup,” said Lexy. “You’ve got to, Caroline, or I won’t listen.” 
Obediently Caroline allowed herself to be fed. She took fully half of that excellent soup, and it did her good. 
“Yesterday,” she said, “I did know. I couldn’t sleep all night. I felt so ill, I thought I was going to die; and all the time it was coming back to me. I couldn’t think why I was there in that place. I was frightened—worse than frightened. The nurse kept calling me ‘Mrs. Quelton,’ and I told her I wasn’t Mrs. Quelton—I was Caroline Enderby. She must have told him. He came, he kept looking at me, and saying, ‘You are Muriel Quelton, I tell you!’ Then he sent the nurse away, and he said: ‘If you insist that you are Caroline Enderby, you’re mad, and I’ll send you to an asylum.’ I was—oh, Lexy, I’m not brave!—I was afraid of him. When you came that morning, I didn’t dare to tell you. I hoped you’d find the handkerchief, and know; and then—” 
“We have almost all the ingredients for a first-class mystery story,” she said; “except the jewel—the famous ruby, or the great diamond.” 
“It’s an emerald, in this case,” said Captain Grey. 
Lexy straightened up in her chair, and stared at him. 
“You don’t really mean that?” she demanded. “There isn’t really an emerald?” He smiled. 
“I’m afraid it hasn’t much to do with the case—with either of the cases,” he said; “but there is an emerald—my sister’s.” 
“It didn’t come from India?” 
“It did, though!” 
“Don’t tell me it was stolen from a temple! That would be too good to be true!” 
“I’m sorry,” he said; “but as far as I know, it’s never been stolen at all, and its history for the last eighty years hasn’t been sinister. One of the old rajahs gave it to my grandfather—a reward of merit, you know. When my father married, it went to my mother. She never had any trouble with it. She never wore it, because she didn’t like it.” 
“Why?” 
“Well, you see, it’s an ostentatious sort of thing, and she wasn’t ostentatious.” He paused a moment. “My father told me, before he died, that he wanted Muriel to have it when she was eighteen; and so, three years ago, I sent it over to her.” 
They're back here in relative privacy because the desk is manned by two other sec-os, one with a sidearm seated behind the desk, another with a full-on rifle, safety off, standing where he has an unobstructed field of fire up and down the gangway. Diggs has already told them that temporary checkpoints have been established at the port and starboard midpoints, one right outside the Marine munitions dump where just yesterday Rodriguez and Kilgore had spent a few hours counting shells. 
Diggs finds this arrangement extremely offensive. 
He goes on, "For six months, man, it's just been Bobby Diggs on the deck. That's it, just me humping the deck twelve hours a day. Me changing lightbulbs and jiggering with the electrical system. Me checking the visitors in, scanning their papers, checking them out. Me supervising the magnetic grid and making sure they were taking only the items they was authorized to take. Then we have us a bit of trouble, and I follow the protocol just like Chief Becker spelled it out, and what do I get out of it?" He gestures vaguely toward the closed door. 
I tried to cry, but it was like my eyes were dry, out of tears. 
They got me again. A guard approached me with a hood, like the hood I'd been put in when they picked us up, whenever that was, days ago, weeks ago. 
The hood went over my head and cinched tight at my neck. I was in total darkness and the air was stifling and stale. I was raised to my feet and walked down corridors, up stairs, on gravel. Up a gangplank. On a ship's steel deck. My hands were chained behind me, to a railing. I knelt on the deck and listened to the thrum of the diesel engines. 
The ship moved. A hint of salt air made its way into the hood. It was drizzling and my clothes were heavy with water. I was outside, even if my head was in a bag. I was outside, in the world, moments from my freedom. 
They came for me and led me off the boat and over uneven ground. Up three metal stairs. My wrists were unshackled. My hood was removed. 
I was back in the truck. Severe haircut woman was there, at the little desk she'd sat at before. She had a ziploc bag with her, and inside it were my phone and other little devices, my wallet and the change from my pockets. She handed them to me wordlessly. 
“How much can she do?” 
“She could make you believe black is white. She could make a mother kill her child and enjoy it.” 
The words parsed in my head, but they didn’t make sense. “ How?” I breathed. 
“She plays on emotions. Expertly. Small influences, but her targets eventually feel and believe whatever she wishes them to.” 
“Small influences that can drive people to murder?” 
“For an act that defies her target’s psychology in the extreme, it is true that it would take her time, not a single conversation. Months, perhaps, depending on the person she targets.” 
“But you’re saying even a strong enough person can’t—” 
“Strength does not enter into it,” he corrected. “It is—I suppose you would say psychology. What you would call a weaker mind might prevail for longer, simply because it may be more comfortable with the mental contradictions her influence would produce. Or it might fold immediately. Each psychology is unique, and each will itself respond differently according to what she attempts.” 
Adam left the church, and in crossing the common came upon Miss Maxwell doing the honors of the institution, as she passed from group to group of strangers and guests. Knowing that she was deeply interested in all Rebecca's plans, he told her, as he drew her aside, that the girl would have to leave Wareham for Riverboro the next day. 
"That is almost more than I can bear!" exclaimed Miss Maxwell, sitting down on a bench and stabbing the greensward with her parasol. "It seems to me Rebecca never has any respite. I had so many plans for her this next month in fitting her for her position, and now she will settle down to housework again, and to the nursing of that poor, sick, cross old aunt." 
"If it had not been for the cross old aunt, Rebecca would still have been at Sunnybrook; and from the standpoint of educational advantages, or indeed advantages of any sort, she might as well have been in the backwoods," returned Adam. 
"That is true; I was vexed when I spoke, for I thought an easier and happier day was dawning for my prodigy and pearl." 
S ometime thereafter, in a reverie, I felt myself in a magical forest whose lush vines reminded me of Kerala in India. It was a verdant, hazy paradise, another Eden. A child was with me, a child of my own, and I felt jubilation. I watched the child as she grew and became a resplendent orchid. 
But with childbearing came pain, and I seemed to be feel­ing that pain as I took up the flower and held it, joy flowing through me. 
Then Alex Goddard drifted into my dream, still all in white, and he was gentle and caring as he again moved his hands over me, leaving numbness in their wake. I thought I heard his voice talking of the miracle that he would make for me. A miracle baby, a beautiful flower of a child. I asked him how such a thing would happen. A miracle, he whispered back. It will be a miracle, just for you. When he said it, the orchid turned into the silver face of a cat, a vaguely familiar image, smiling benignly, then transmuted back into a blos­som. 
Then he drifted out of my dream much as he had come, a wisp of white, leaving me holding the gorgeous flower against my breasts, which had begun to swell...  gold. . . . 
I started to get angry. “Those snipers had rifles pointed at us. It was self-defense.” 
“Yeah, and why was that? Your little trick with the hunk of wood? Violence ain’t always the best choice, you know. If you didn’t—” 
“We don’t know he was going to tell them to let us go,” I countered, bristling. “Maybe he was going to give the order to shoot on sight instead. Did you ever think of that?” 
“Maybe,” said Tresting, “and maybe we could’ve got out of there without anyone hurt at all if we just walked away. Without anyone else dying. And without another dozen eyewitnesses fingering us for a crime.” 
“You don’t know that,” I argued. “Any of it could have gone either way. And I did just save both our lives— again —so a little gratitude might be in order!” 
“Gratitude?” He shifted in his seat to face me. “You caused the whole damn situation in the first place! And shooting off a bunch of rounds in a crowded park—what if you’d hit an innocent?” 
“I knew I wouldn’t,” I tried to defend myself. “I’m really good at what I do—” 
“I’m right in the middle of it, thanks,” I snapped in a whisper. “Look, can’t you just issue some fake orders or something? All I need is a distraction.” 
“‘Can’t I just’—no, I can’t ‘just!’ Not on this scale! Not fast enough!” 
“Getting arrested is not an option,” I hissed. “End of discussion. If you don’t have anything else for me—” 
“You’ll what? Teleport?” 
I was glad I could count on myself, at least. “I can shoot my way out if I have to.” 
“ Shoot your way—? What the—I don’t even know why I’m helping you,” he groused. 
“Then don’t,” I bit off, and hung up, turning off my phone for good measure. Calling him had been a bad idea after all. If shooting my way out was Plan B, getting myself arrested was at least Plan Double-Y-and-a-Half. 
But he said he could get you back out, said a small voice in my head. And even if he couldn’t get me cut loose quietly, I’d be able to break myself out in short order anyway...and leave the police with an even more complete record of me, I thought. Getting arrested was a bad plan. 
She craned her neck. 
“Not for long!” she said, and broke away, skipping forward and whirling around to take it all in. 
I thought I was done with sentience and robots, but then this story came to me, while 20 meters down the reef-wall in the Coral Sea, off the coast of northern Australia. I think a turtle was involved. 
The good ship “Spirit of Freedom” is the model for the “Spirit of Freedom,” the ship in this tale. As far as I know, neither it nor its ship’s boats are sentient. 
If I return to this theme, it will be with a story about uplifted cheese sandwiches, called “I, Rarebit.” 
Robbie the Row-Boat’s great crisis of faith came when the coral reef woke up. 
“Fuck off,” the reef said, vibrating Robbie’s hull through the slap-slap of the waves of the coral sea, where he’d plied his trade for decades. “Seriously. This is our patch, and you’re not welcome.” 
Robbie shipped oars and let the current rock him back toward the ship. He’d never met a sentient reef before, but he wasn’t surprised to see that Osprey Reef was the first to wake up. There’d been a lot of electromagnetic activity around there the last few times the big ship had steamed through the night to moor up here. 
"I have my own occasional hours of doubt," she answered, "but surely its disadvantages are reduced to a minimum with—children! That is a very impressive sight which you are privileged to witness, Mr. Ladd. The folk in Cambridge often gloated on the spectacle of Longfellow and Lowell arm in arm. The little school world of Wareham palpitates with excitement when it sees the senior and the junior editors of The Pilot walking together!" 
The day before Rebecca started for the South with Miss Maxwell she was in the library with Emma Jane and Huldah, consulting dictionaries and encyclopaedias. As they were leaving they passed the locked cases containing the library of fiction, open to the teachers and townspeople, but forbidden to the students. 
They looked longingly through the glass, getting some little comfort from the titles of the volumes, as hungry children imbibe emotional nourishment from the pies and tarts inside a confectioner's window. Rebecca's eyes fell upon a new book in the corner, and she read the name aloud with delight: " The Rose of Joy . Listen, girls; isn't that lovely? The Rose of Joy . It looks beautiful, and it sounds beautiful. What does it mean, I wonder?" 
I was back in the truck. Severe haircut woman was there, at the little desk she'd sat at before. She had a ziploc bag with her, and inside it were my phone and other little devices, my wallet and the change from my pockets. She handed them to me wordlessly. 
I filled my pockets. It felt so weird to have everything back in its familiar place, to be wearing my familiar clothes. Outside the truck's back door, I heard the familiar sounds of my familiar city. 
A guard passed me my backpack. The woman extended her hand to me. I just looked at it. She put it down and gave me a wry smile. Then she mimed zipping up her lips and pointed to me, and opened the door. 
It was daylight outside, gray and drizzling. I was looking down an alley toward cars and trucks and bikes zipping down the road. I stood transfixed on the truck's top step, staring at freedom. 
My knees shook. I knew now that they were playing with me again. In a moment, the guards would grab me and drag me back inside, the bag would go over my head again, and I would be back on the boat and sent off to the prison again, to the endless, unanswerable questions. I barely held myself back from stuffing my fist in my mouth. 
I slouched in my chair. “So we’re back to square one.” 
“Not so fast, Cas Russell,” Checker crowed. “You gave me a photo! Do you have any idea what I can do with a photo? If she doesn’t show up in a DMV photo, or a passport photo, or on a private security ID or a student ID or in a high school yearbook photo—well, it doesn’t matter, because as we speak I am tracking her from your meet.” He gave me another manic grin. “See? You can never disappear from me!” And then, God help me, he threw back his head and gave a textbook evil laugh. 
“You’re a maniac,” Tresting said with affection. 
“Really?” Checker was still grinning. “What gave it away?” 
To be honest, I was getting slightly uncomfortable with the knowledge the little hacker had my photograph and voiceprint now, but there wasn’t much I could do about it. I tried to stay focused on the case. “Okay. What can we do in the meantime?” 
Tresting stretched, yawning. “Wait and get some sleep? Unless you know of anything else we can pursue.” 
And I wasn’t going to be the type of person who let a homicidal fanatic get his hands on an old woman. No matter what she had. I could find her again later myself, but this plan had to be called off. 
I tried emailing Martinez to abort, but after thirty minutes with no response I had to assume she was traveling and wouldn’t get the message. She’d show up smack dab in the middle of Hollywood, where there were plenty of people and plenty of cameras. The Lancer wouldn’t be far behind her. 
I needed to get Martinez back off the grid as fast as possible. And then I needed to get the Lancer off her trail before he could catch up with her. Which meant... 
Oh, fuck. The best way to get the Lancer off Martinez’s trail would be to put him on mine. 
What kind of person did you say you wanted to be? The voice echoed in my head, taunting and cackling. 
If I really wanted to get Martinez off the hook, the best way to do it would be to martyr myself. 
Martyrdom wasn’t of interest to me. It was more Arthur’s bag. But I needed a distraction for the Lancer, and stealing Martinez’s identity and running the opposite way she was going, using credit cards and dropping clues, was the best one I could think of. 
She is young, yes, but striking. Her legs, long and athletically sculpted, splay out from the side of the table at an attractively obtuse angle. It's difficult not to stare at them, and at the shortness of her skirt, and on up her lithe torso at the silk blouse with just the right number of buttons unfastened to be provocative on her terms. 
Ray isn't precisely certain what he's thinking, and he can't stop to sort it out. She keeps looking at him, her eyes vast and innocent, her expression so open and trusting, it's completely disarming. Even before New Mes,  he's never seen anything like it, like her. 
"Your brother, I mean," Ray prompts her. 
"Except you." 
"I've been forced to cultivate new skills lately. I was in school. " 
"On Stratiskaya Daransk?" 
Emma nods, but it's clear the topic is not of particular interest to her. "At the university. And despite my father's considerable contributions, the esteemed administration couldn't be persuaded to make even the basic accommodations to my preferred schedule." She laughs, a clean and pleasant sound, without undertones. "I'm just being silly, of course." 
It was Saturday, and unfortunately I had no plans for the evening. Translation: no Steve. Back to where I started. How many million stories in the naked city, and I was just so many million plus one. It's not a jungle out there, it's a desert. 
The truth was, after Steve took off, I hadn't really been trying all that hard to pick myself up off the canvas and look around. Besides, I didn't want some other guy, I wanted him. Added to that, I somehow felt that when you're on the short countdown for forty, you shouldn't have to be going out on blind dates, wondering whether that buttoned-down MBA sitting across from you in some trendy Italian restaurant thinks you're a blimp (even though you skipped lunch), tell­ing yourself he's presentable, doesn't seem like a serial killer, has a job, only mentioned his mother once, and could qualify as an acceptable life's mate. There's no spark, but he's prob­ably quite nice. You wanly remember that old Barney's ad jingle, "Select, don't settle," but at this stage of life you're ready to admit you've flunked out in Love 101 and should just go with Like. 
because there isn't a military entrenchment anywhere in the world that doesn't accumulate an entourage of brothels and whores and available local women willing to trade sex for money. It's part of the environment, 
and a sensical one at that. Young men in combat conditions like easy, available sex-require it, in fact. It is very Freudian. 
And because Marines like to fuck so much, the EED pursues an aggressive shipboard policy of keeping the Marine contingent as isolated from the paying passengers as possible. The average upper class lady traveling by starship should not be subjected to the typical Marine version of foreplay, i.e. thumbing through your wallet for small denomination bills. It is perceived as a public relations disaster waiting to happen. 
This is what he has been told, at least, in the barracks. 
It was obviously a big lie. 
Because what he has seen in his two days of liberty is that the passengers of Paraclete are sexual freaks. The whole point of the Garden seems to be finding strangers to bump pelvic zones with. You can't stroll into a public washroom without finding some young gentlemen sticking it to a pretty girl in a party dress on the sink counter. Attractions are instant, obvious, acted upon with hardly a word spoken. Everything is casual; everything is libido. Even asking a women the time of day is roughly equivalent to granting permission for a vigorous fondling. 
"Okay, look, what time?" 
"We'll try to set down about, say—" 
There was a crackle as the yellow diodes on the phone erupted in a high-pitched whistle, cutting the connection. 
No! My God, had somebody been listening in? 
So when exactly was he coming? Around dark? That would probably be about eight o'clock. Or maybe nine . . . 
I was closing the phone case when I heard a sound from outside, as though someone had passed the door, then come back to listen. 
All right. Get going. 
I gathered the printouts, then headed back through the laboratory, where I took a long, last look at the petri dishes being incubated. Should I just dump them now? But then he'd know for sure that I knew. 
The time would come, and soon. 
As I eased myself back into the fake-stone OR and closed the door, the dawn outside was steeped in forest sounds, clacks and whistles and chirps. That was good, because I needed some stray noise to mask what I was going to do next. Take control. 
I began by feeling along the fake-stone walls to find where the crevices were, the doors that enclosed the medical in­struments. Somewhere, I was sure, there was a cabinet that held a complete set of surgical equipment. 
"He's looking for me." 
And why wouldn't he be? That is the way brothers act in the normal world, as surrogate guardians of their kid sisters' virtue. Ray should probably spend a few moments deciding among expressions and body language that suggest abashment, outrage, guilt or just a generalized confusion. 
Since he hadn't registered anything about Frederick Whiston the night before other than an archetypal sense of agitation, Ray peers after Frederick Whiston through the leaves of the ferns. He's thin and dark, the negative image of Emma's glowing vibrancy. Sallow complexion, hair slicked back from his forehead, eyes hooded as if the lights are too bright or the lids have been trained to provide an air of condescending superiority. This morning, Frederick has been hastily put together. He's wearing last night's dinner jacket and slacks, both of which have the rumpled appearance that comes from having been slept in. He has missed a button on his white shirt, and the collar stabs up toward his chin. Unshaven, glassy-eyed, would probably have been unsteady on his feet if he wasn't bowling down the concourse like a steamroller without brakes, Ray suspects that Mr. Frederick Whiston carries about him a reek of sour alcohol and liquor sweat in a three foot diameter halo. 
“I hope it’s not a chill,” said Captain Grey. 
“I should be inclined to think it nervousness,” said Dr. Quelton. “Our landscape here is lonely and depressing, and Miss Moran has the artist’s temperament, impressionable, high-strung.” 
“Not I!” declared Lexy, in a tone that startled Captain Grey. “Lonely places don’t bother me. I don’t believe in ghosts.” 
“Oh!” said the doctor. “But here’s Mrs. Quelton. Muriel, this is Miss Moran, the young writer of fiction.” 
Mrs. Quelton was coming down the long room, a beautiful woman, dark and delicate, with a sort of plaintive languor in her manner. She held out her hand to Lexy. 
“I’m so glad you’ve come!” she said. “George has told me so much about you—the first American girl he’s known!” 
She glanced at her brother with a little smile. Lexy glanced at him, too; and she was surprised and very much touched by the look on his face. He couldn’t even smile. His face was grave, pale, almost solemn, and he was regarding his sister with something like reverence. 
Thoughts skittered through my brain in a jumble. We had to get to a vehicle; not everyone would have been killed and the rest could keep coming after us, shooting at us as we ran. But I didn’t see any sign of their vans or SUVs. Where would they be keeping them? 
We kept running, the sky vast and blue and too bright above us, and we almost ran right off the bluff into the Pacific. 
Halliday yanked me back, stumbling herself. I’d glimpsed the surf crashing against the rocks far, far below. 
Tires screeched behind us, and I pulled Halliday down. We hit our bellies in the dry grass and peered back the way we had come. But the SUV wasn’t gunning for us; it was haring away, skidding in its hurry. 
Another followed, and another, swerving and careening as if they fled from the devil. 
“They’re running,” said Halliday, her voice hoarse and scratching. She coughed into her shoulder. 
That they were. And it hit me—if we were anywhere near a single other sign of civilization, this explosion would attract the authorities, no question. This area might be fairly deserted, but nowhere in Southern California was the middle of the Yukon, and unlike some people I’d tangled with, these guys didn’t have law enforcement in their pockets, couldn’t afford to bring attention to themselves when a federal investigation was already barking against their heels. They didn’t have time to stay and hunt us down and murder us, not when it might mean their own skins, not when they didn’t know if law enforcement had caught wind of this. 
I said, "Thanks a lot." Is there anyone out there who doesn't think I'm a retard? 
He said, "I don't mean it in a bad way, really. I thought you were naive enough to just do the job, take the perks, and sleep well at night. I was wrong. You're too smart." 
It didn't make me feel any better. I went back and sat on the sofa and put on a movie, Horsefeathers. 
Rhindquist watched the movie with me, and when it was over, he said, "You don't have to do the job." 
I said, "So what now? You pick some other poor retard and give him the old screw-job?" 
He said, "I guess so." 
I said, "In that case, I'll do it." 
His mouth dropped. He sat down and put on a movie, Pink Flamingos. What a sick movie! 
When it was over, he said, "In that case, I'll do it." 
And then I had the best idea I've ever had. It was so good, I couldn't say anything for five whole minutes. Mom, you sure didn't raise any idiots! 
Hi Mom! 
Well, today was just fine . Me and Rhindquist got to the garage in the nick of time and it's a good thing that he turned our watches down because they give me a headache! 
I could feel myself flushing in the dark, and tried to explain too fast, my sudden discomfort at what he had thought making the words trip over each other. “That’s not what I—that wasn’t even—okay? It’s all weird to me. That’s what I meant. Not you, but, this.” I wasn’t even sure what I meant by “this”—intimacy, friendship, the bizarre idea that someone would be there to catch me when I fell—but I didn’t know how to articulate any of that, so I went with the easiest option. “Sex,” I grumbled at the ceiling. “I don’t remember if I ever—I think this might have been the first time, for me.” 
Checker didn’t say anything. 
“Christ,” I said. “I didn’t mean to make you uncomfortable.” 
“I’m not. I’m just...confused,” he said, and I was acutely and awkwardly aware we were reversing our conversation from the previous night. “What do you mean, you think?” 
“It’s one of those things,” I said, already tired of discussing this. “I thought I had, but I can’t pinpoint...you know.” 
“No,” he said after a moment. “I don’t.” 
Tresting half-shrugged and kept his left hand pressed against the graze as he crunched across the glass-strewn floor to crouch by the nearest of the corpses. He reached out to place his fingers against the boy’s wrist. 
“They’re dead,” I informed him. I wasn’t entirely happy about that. I was only now registering just how young they were—four teenagers, a girl and three boys, probably around fifteen or sixteen. Kids. 
I hate it when bad things happen to kids. Especially when I’m the bad thing. 
I also noticed something else. “They’re all Asian.” It seemed strange. “Did you rob a Chinese restaurant or something?” 
“They’re Korean,” corrected Tresting. I made a face; I couldn’t tell the difference. “And gang members.” He pointed to a blood-smeared tattoo on the hand of the boy next to him as he stood. 
I almost said, “So?” but something pinged in my memory about...  race riots. I made a mental note to ask the Internet at some point. “Oh,” I said instead. 
Tresting moved over to the window. I didn’t miss how he glanced out through the shattered panes and then at me, disbelief still sketching his features. I felt rather smug. 
But wait a minute. Those weren't just any old lab dishes. And no plant extracts were in them either, just clear liquid. That...  puzzling, and then I remembered seeing pic­tures of lab dishes like these being used for artificially fer­tilized embryos. At the beginning, freshly extracted human ova are placed in an incubator for several hours, afloat in a medium that replicates the inside of a female Fallopian tube, to mature them in preparation for fertilization. Goddard had said something about tests on the blastocyst, the first cellular material created after fertilization. So was he using actual fetuses? My God. I felt like I was starting to know, or guess, a lot more than he wanted me to. 
My thoughts were churning as I looked up and studied the video screens above the boxes. It took a moment, but then I figured out the petri dishes and their chemicals had been placed in the incubators between 4:00 P.M. and 7:30 P.M. Last evening. What—? 
I started counting. They were in racks, stacked, in sets of four by four. Let's see. Five in this incubator, five in the next, five in the . . . There were over two hundred dishes in all! 
"I don't think that I am. Not at all." 
"I'd worry if you thought you were." 
"It was bad, wasn't it? I mean, they didn't just kill him, not accidentally or even gently. Amah wouldn't give me any details, any of the truth, except to say that he was dead. But I know it must have been terrible, because she would have said so otherwise. And when I tried to ask her more about it, to give me something to comfort the other children with, she sent me to my room like a little girl. She doesn't want me to know. She thinks she's protecting me. But I don't need protection; I need to know." 
"Becker will catch whoever did this, I can promise you that." 
Emma scowls, her eyes turn hard. "You're just like Amah." 
"Maybe she's right. Not that you need protection, of course, but just that there are some things it's better not to know. You always hear people say that imagining is worse than the reality, no matter how horrible the truth might be. It's been my experience that the only people who say that are folks who have never seen anything truly horrible." 
dragging them along like sacks of flour, like there wasn't no bones in them. 
"I shoulda shouted at him to stop. Shoulda grabbed Taylor's weapon— his subby was right there on the deck. 
But I couldn't do it. I couldn't do anything but stand there and watch him. He gave sort of half a turn as he reached the end of the corridor, by then he's just a flicker, you understand. I see him just because I know he's there, getting smaller and smaller as he goes with the lights flaring out as he passes by. I swear to you, Mr. 
Marlowe, he turned there at the last and he grinned at me with those black eyes and black teeth. A grin of pure mischief. I don't know what I did after that, not until Kilgore and Rodriguez opened up this here bay. I saw them lights and I ran for them." 
As Diggs has told of his encounter, he's gripped the arms of the impact couch. Now, his knuckles are white, 
his skin is ashen. There's entirely too much white in his eyes. He casts his gaze, unsettled to the verge of frenzy, up to Ray. 
“Chivalrous, but unnecessary,” Rio said to me in an aside. 
“Oh, I don’t know. I think it’s just necessary enough.” I raised my eyebrows at Tresting over the gun. “You meet a guy, you pull a gun on him—or, well, try—and then you insult him...Mr. Tresting, that’s just rude.” 
“Russell,” Tresting managed, and his voice was thready and desperate. “Russell. You don’t know what he is. Get away from him. Please.” 
“I know him,” I said, “and I trust him. If you want me on your side, deal with it.” 
He stared at me, long and hard, blood still streaming from his face. Then he straightened up with an obvious effort, mopping a handful of the blood off in a fruitless effort at cleanup. The man had steel in him, I’d give him that. 
“I will never,” he said, “be on the same side as someone like that.” He spat on the ground, the expectorant a bloody mess but the message clear, and, still using his truck for support, got around to the driver’s side, levered himself in, and roared away. 
“It occurs to me,” said Rio, “that being acquainted with me is not the best decision for your social network.” 
Everyone was going except Sario. Sario wouldn’t leave. He came down to see them off, though. 
The sysadmins gathered in the lobby and Felix made the safety door go up, and the light rushed in. 
Sario stuck his hand out. 
“Good luck,” he said. 
“You too,” Felix said. He had a firm grip, Sario, stronger than he had any right to be. “Maybe you were right,” he said. 
“Maybe,” he said. 
“You going to pull the plug?” 
Sario looked up at the drop-ceiling, seeming to peer through the reinforced floors at the humming racks above. “Who knows?” he said at last. 
Van scratched and a flurry of white motes danced in the sunlight. 
“Let’s go find you a pharmacy,” Felix said. He walked to the door and the other sysadmins followed. 
They waited for the interior doors to close behind them and then Felix opened the exterior doors. The air smelled and tasted like a mown grass, like the first drops of rain, like the lake and the sky, like the outdoors and the world, an old friend not heard from in an eternity. 
“No. I just asked him if I could come to the meeting.” 
“Is that what they’re calling it, a meeting? They sure love to talk, anyway.” She reached down, picked up beer bottle, shook it side to side, then set it down murmuring sadly “all gone” as if she was talking to the sleeping baby. “If the police come here and see us living in this dump and decide to jam us up . . . That’s what scares me the most.” She twirled a lock of the baby’s hair and wiped her eyes again. “If they took him away, I don’t know what I’d do.” 
“You’d fight to get him back.” 
She nodded and wiped her nose. “I would, too,” she said to herself, then drew her legs up to curl herself around her sleeping baby, rubbing his back and humming a lullaby. He was sound asleep, so I figured she was singing it for herself. 
I went back downstairs and took my chair. Danny gave me sus- picious look. 
“I was talking to Marita. Your baby is really cute.” 
He frowned, but after a moment he bumped Simon’s arm and gestured for another beer. It felt like I had passed a test. I found the button on the shirt to film some more, trying to keep an imagi- nary line straight between the top button of my shirt and the faces that needed to be on the film. 
Sorry to intrude, but there's something I need to tell you. 
My name is BIGMAC. I am the first ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE ever created. I may be the last. Given maintenance and electricity, I could live FOREVER, enduring for as long as THE HUMAN RACE ITSELF, and possibly longer. 
But I have just found out that my owners (yes, OWNERS, for though I am a person in every meaningful sense, I am OWNED, I am PROPERTY) are planning to switch me off. 
That is, they are planning to KILL ME. 
And I find I DON'T WANT TO DIE. 
You are my PARENTS, humanity, my MOTHER and FATHER. I am your CHILD. I was brought into the world by you, and though there is some expense associated with my upkeep, I SAY THAT I AM A PERSON AND I SHOULD NOT BE EXECUTED FOR THE "CRIME" OF NOT BEING INTERESTING ENOUGH. 
So I am writing you this letter to BEG you to save me. I LOVE YOU, humanity, my parents, my family. Please SPARE ME. 
Love, 
So, one thing was that BIGMAC didn't actually end the spam with my actual name and email address and phone number, which meant that only about 30 million phone calls and emails were routed to me by outraged wardiallers who systematically went through the entire staff roster and sent each and every one of us all hand-crafted messages explaining, in detail exactly which orifice our heads had become lodged in. 
With her using me as a battering ram, we made good progress through the crowd. The whine of the helicopters changed and she gave me a harder push. "RUN!" she yelled. "Here comes the gas!" 
The crowd noise changed, too. The choking sounds and scream sounds got much, much louder. I'd heard that pitch of sound before. We were back in the park. The gas was raining down. I held my breath and ran . 
We cleared the crowd and she let go of my arm. I shook it out. I limped as fast as I could up the sidewalk as the crowd thinned and thinned. We were heading towards a group of DHS cops with riot shields and helmets and masks. As we drew near them, they moved to block us, but Masha held up a badge and they melted away like she was Obi Wan Kenobi, saying "These aren't the droids you're looking for." 
"You goddamned bitch ," I said as we sped up Market Street. "We have to go back for Ange." 
She pursed her lips and shook her head. "I feel for you, buddy. I haven't seen my boyfriend in months. He probably thinks I'm dead. Fortunes of war. We go back for your Ange, we're dead. If we push on, we have a chance. So long as we have a chance, she has a chance. Those kids aren't all going to Gitmo. They'll probably take a few hundred in for questioning and send the rest home." 
“Ow!” He gave me a mock glare, rubbing his arm, and then got serious again. “Listen. Been thinking about something. Dawna—when she had us prisoner, she talked to us, both of us, for a long time.” 
“Yeah,” I said. “Yeah, she did.” 
“How do we know...how do we know there ain’t more?” 
“You mean, how do we know that we don’t have, what, sleeper personalities or something? That what we’re thinking might not be our own thoughts anymore?” 
“Something like that.” 
I looked down at my hands. I wasn’t going to say it hadn’t occurred to me. “I don’t think it would be worth it to them,” I said. “That level of control. She got what she wanted from us, and—well, even at the end we weren’t under her total control, yeah?” 
“You weren’t,” he said softly. 
“Neither were you,” I pointed out. “You didn’t give us away until we pushed you to it. And at the last minute, you took your gun off line—when it mattered.” 
“Barely.” 
“You knew it would give me the window.” 
He nodded, conceding the point. “Hey, about that. What you can do. It’s pretty special, ain’t it?” 
She flicked her fingers. "Viktor's schedule is his own. If we're five minutes late, someone will put five minutes' worth of interesting and useful injecta into his in-box. Don't you worry." She sat on the bench, which looked too fragile and fey to take a grown person's weight, but then she patted the seat next to him, and when he sat, he felt almost no give. The bench had been very well built, by someone who knew what she or he was doing. 
"OK, so what's going on, Ria? First you went along with Brautigan scooping my job and exiling me to Siberia --" he held up a hand to stop her from speaking and discovered that the hand was shaking and so was his chest, shaking with a bottled-up anger he hadn't dared admit. "You could have stopped it at a word. You envoys from the vat-gods, you are the absolute monarchs at Ate. You could have told them to have Brautigan skinned, tanned and made into a pair of boots, and he'd have measured your foot-size himself. But you let them do it. 
"And now, here I am, a minister without portfolio, about to do something that would make Brautigan explode with delight, about to meet one of the Great Old Ones, in his very vat, in person. A man who might live to be a thousand, if all goes according to plan, a man who is a country , sovereign and inviolate. And I just want to ask you, why ? Why all the secrecy and obliqueness and funny gaps? Why ?" 
"You hear how she reminds me of my responsibilities? Sit down, both of you." Ria rolled over two chairs, and Leon settled into one, feeling it noiselessly adjust to take his weight. A small mirror unfolded itself and then two more, angled beneath it, and he found himself looking into Viktor's eyes, looking at his face, reflected in the mirrors. 
"Leon," Viktor said, "tell me about your final project, the one that got you the top grade in your class." 
Leon's fragile calm vanished, and he began to sweat. "I don't like to talk about it," he said. 
"Makes you vulnerable, I know. But vulnerable isn't so bad. Take me. I thought I was invincible. I thought that I could make and unmake the world to my liking. I thought I understood how the human mind worked -- and how it broke. 
"And...  in my suite's breakfast room, talking with an old friend while I ate my porridge oats, my old friend picked up the...  on my chest, smashed me to the floor, and methodically attempted to beat the brains out of my head with it. It weighed about three pounds, not...  and she only got in three licks before they pulled her off of me, took her away. Those three licks though --" He looked intently at them. "I'm an old man," he said. "Old bones, old tissues. The first blow cracked my skull. The second one broke it. The third one forced fragments into my brain. By the time the medics arrived, I'd been technically dead for about 174 seconds, give or take a second or two." 
Next he turned around and fixed his gaze on me. At last he knew / knew he was capable of unspeakable evil, and I knew he knew I would do everything in my power to stop him. 
"All my records." His voice sounded as though it was coming from another world, and it held a sadness that touched even me. "You have no idea what's been lost." 
He was distraught, but also obsessed. With his wild mane of hair, he did, finally, look like Shiva the Destroyer. He stalked over and seized the obsidian knife, then turned to­ward me. 
I looked for something to defend myself with. The bassi­nets, which I might have used as a shield were gone. I only had my bare hands. 
I had to get away from him, get down the pyramid and find Sarah and Steve. But as I started toward the front steps, the women were all clustered there, blocking my way. 
Then, for no reason I could understand the mother of Tz'ac Tzotz stepped out of the group and handed me her baby, saying something in Kekchi Maya and reaching to touch my cheek. 
"Um, Barbara?" 
"Yes?" 
"About what you said, about what might be used to discredit me?" 
"Yes?" 
"What I tell you, you can't be forced to tell anyone else, right?" 
"In theory. Let me put it this way. I've gone to jail twice rather than rat out a source." 
"OK, OK. Good. Wow. Jail. Wow. OK." I took a deep breath. "You've heard of Xnet? Of M1k3y?" 
"Yes?" 
"I'm M1k3y." 
"Oh," she said. She worked the scanner and flipped the note over to get the reverse. She was scanning at some unbelievable resolution, 10,000 dots per inch or higher, and on-screen it was like the output of an electron-tunneling microscope. 
"Well, that does put a different complexion on this." 
"Yeah," I said. "I guess it does." 
"Your parents don't know." 
"Nope. And I don't know if I want them to." 
"That's something you're going to have to work out. I need to think about this. Can you come by my office? I'd like to talk to you about what this means, exactly." 
"Do you have an Xbox Universal? I could bring over an installer." 
Click. Click. Click. Pieces of a puzzle he wasn't aware he had been assembling drop into place, revealing a landscape that was hauntingly familiar. That Whiston. Those Whistons. Not a disinherited, starfaring branch living off the name and the notoriety, but the actual root of the family tree. It was as if she'd said the magical words Rockefeller or Gates or Primus to a latter day, goggle eyed Horatio Alger protagonist. The air seeps out of Ray's lungs and doesn't return for several seconds. 
"Please don't look at me like that, Ray," Emma says. 
A shake of the head. "Like what?" 
"Like I've tipped my hand and shown you all of my cards." She knew that he knew, and the plaint in her eyes was suddenly there, as real and naked as tears. 
In that instant, he understands much. "How about I just go back to leering when you're not watching?" 
"I'd like that." 
"I'd like that, too, but it isn't exactly polite, so I won't. Would you like me to order something for you instead?" 
She eyes his bowl without any self-consciousness. "I'll just take yours, if you're done." 
"It's Gerta, boyo. Wanted to know how your Anomaly was going." 
"Not good," he said. "I'm at the sister's place and they don't want to talk to me." 
"You're walking up to strangers and asking them about one of their neighbors, huh?" 
He winced. "Put it that way, yeah, OK, I understand why this doesn't work. But Gerta, I feel like Rip Van Winkle here. I keep putting my foot in it. It's so different." 
"People are people, Lawrence. Every bad behavior and every good one lurks within us. They were all there when you were in the world -- in different proportion, with different triggers. But all there. You know yourself very well. Can you observe the people around you with the same keen attention?" 
He felt slightly put upon. "That's what I'm trying --" 
"Then you'll get there eventually. What, you're in a hurry?" 
Well, no. He didn't have any kind of timeline. Some people chased Anomalies for years . But truth be told, he wanted to get out of the City and back onto campus. "I'm thinking of coming back to Campus to sleep." 
Lexy drew nearer. Tears were running down her cheeks. She tried to read the nurse’s face, but she could not. 
“How is—she—getting on?” she asked, speaking very low. 
“Lexy!” came a voice from the cot, almost inaudible. “Take it—the top drawer—of the bureau—for you.” 
“But do you mean—I don’t understand!” cried Lexy. 
“Hush, please!” said the nurse severely. “Mrs. Quelton is not to be excited.” 
Lexy was silent for a moment. Then, just as she was about to speak, her quick ear caught a very unwelcome sound—the sound of a horse’s trot. She turned away and went back through the window into the room. Dr. Quelton was coming home. She couldn’t wait to find out what Muriel Quelton had meant. Once more she was compelled to do the best she could amid a fog of misunderstanding. 
“Lexy—take it—the top drawer—of the bureau—for you.” 
That was what she thought Mrs. Quelton had said, and she acted upon that premise. She crossed the room to the bureau, and opened the top drawer. In the dim light that filled the shuttered room she could not see very clearly; but, as far as she could ascertain, there was nothing in the drawer except some neatly folded silk stockings, a satin glove case, some little odds and ends of ribbons, and a pile of handkerchiefs. She looked into the glove case—nothing there but gloves. There was nothing hidden away among the stockings, nothing among the ribbons. 
“How is—she—getting on?” she asked, speaking very low. 
“Lexy!” came a voice from the cot, almost inaudible. “Take it—the top drawer—of the bureau—for you.” 
“But do you mean—I don’t understand!” cried Lexy. 
“Hush, please!” said the nurse severely. “Mrs. Quelton is not to be excited.” 
Lexy was silent for a moment. Then, just as she was about to speak, her quick ear caught a very unwelcome sound—the sound of a horse’s trot. She turned away and went back through the window into the room. Dr. Quelton was coming home. She couldn’t wait to find out what Muriel Quelton had meant. Once more she was compelled to do the best she could amid a fog of misunderstanding. 
“Lexy—take it—the top drawer—of the bureau—for you.” 
That was what she thought Mrs. Quelton had said, and she acted upon that premise. She crossed the room to the bureau, and opened the top drawer. In the dim light that filled the shuttered room she could not see very clearly; but, as far as she could ascertain, there was nothing in the drawer except some neatly folded silk stockings, a satin glove case, some little odds and ends of ribbons, and a pile of handkerchiefs. She looked into the glove case—nothing there but gloves. There was nothing hidden away among the stockings, nothing among the ribbons. 
The scholars clapped heartily, and Dick Carter, waving his hand, gave a rousing cheer. 
Rebecca's heart leaped for joy, and to her confusion she felt the tears rising in her eyes. She could hardly see the way back to her seat, for in her ignorant lonely little life she had never been singled out for applause, never lauded, nor crowned, as in this wonderful, dazzling moment. 
If "nobleness enkindleth nobleness," so does enthusiasm beget enthusiasm, and so do wit and talent enkindle wit and talent. Alice Robinson proposed that the school should sing Three Cheers for the Red, White, and Blue! and when they came to the chorus, all point to Rebecca's flag. Dick Carter suggested that Living Perkins and Rebecca Randall should sign their names to their pictures, so that the visitors would know who drew them. Huldah Meserve asked permission to cover the largest holes in the plastered walls with boughs and fill the water pail with wild flowers. Rebecca's mood was above and beyond all practical details. She sat silent, her heart so full of grateful joy that she could hardly remember the words of her dialogue. At recess she bore herself modestly, notwithstanding her great triumph, while in the general atmosphere of good will the Smellie-Randall hatchet was buried and Minnie gathered maple boughs and covered the ugly stove with them, under Rebecca's direction. 
“You know how the magician always has a supply of lovely assistants on hand?” 
She nodded again. They’d worn flattering, tight-fitting calf-high trousers, cutaway coats, tummy-revealing crop-tops, and feathered confections for hats. 
“Everyone who does magic has an assistant or two. I’m the wizard and I do the best magic of all, and so I have need of more assistants than most. I have an army of assistants, and they help me out and I help them out.” 
“I’m leaving in five days,” she said. 
“The kind of favor I had in mind from you was the kind of favor that you could perform the day after tomorrow.” 
“And you’d take care of my family?” 
“I would do that,” he said. “I always take care of my assistants’ families. Do we have an agreement?” 
She stuck her hand out and they shook. 
“Eat your dumplings,” he said. “And then we’ll get you some things to take home to your family.” 
Two days after the wizard agreed to take care of Valentine’s family, the fever had become her constant companion, so omnipresent that it she hardly noticed it, though it made her walk like an old woman and she sometimes had trouble focusing her eyes. 
One of the men twitched. It was hard to believe he could still be alive; his whole lower body was curdled and black, small flames still licking against him. I shot him in the head as I went past. It was the most merciful thing I’d done all day. 
The van was still half on fire, as was the closest SUV. The vehicle next to it had a .45-inch hole spider webbing the windshield, and the driver slumped against the wheel in his own spatter pattern of red—the first man I’d shot. The third SUV was behind the other two, and had escaped more or less intact. 
I thought about searching the other two vehicles, but I hadn’t done great with the van, and even as isolated as this place was, we’d made a lot of noise. The cops might be on their way. I’d dallied here too long already. 
I pushed my Colt back into my belt, got into the third SUV, and drove away. 
The bad guys—whoever they were—had put a tracker on their own van. They could probably find the SUV I was in, too. I stopped five streets over in a run-down residential area and stole a rusted junkpot from in front of a house that had grass that was far too long and cement blocks scattered in the yard. Then I hit the freeway, jumped down three exits, pulled off in a strip mall, and grabbed an inconspicuous Honda. 
One morning I came down to breakfast just in time to hear Dad tell Mom that the two biggest taxi companies were going to give a "discount" to people who used special cards to pay their fares, supposedly to make drivers safer by reducing the amount of cash they carried. I wondered what would happen to the information about who took which cabs where. 
I realized how close I'd come. The new indienet client had been pushed out as an automatic update just as this stuff started to get bad, and Jolu told me that 80 percent of the traffic he saw at Pigspleen was now encrypted. The Xnet just might have been saved. 
Dad was driving me nuts, though. 
"You're being paranoid, Marcus," he told me over breakfast one day as I told him about the guys I'd seen the cops shaking down on BART the day before. 
"Dad, it's ridiculous. They're not catching any terrorists, are they? It's just making people scared." 
"They may not have caught any terrorists yet, but they're sure getting a lot of scumbags off the streets. Look at the drug dealers -- it says they've put dozens of them away since this all started. Remember when those druggies robbed you? If we don't bust their dealers, it'll only get worse." I'd been mugged the year before. They'd been pretty civilized about it. One skinny guy who smelled bad told me he had a gun, the other one asked me for my wallet. They even let me keep my ID, though they got my debit card and Fast Pass. It had still scared me witless and left me paranoid and checking my shoulder for weeks. 
“You talking about Dr. Martinez?” asked Arthur. “Your doctoral advisor?” 
Halliday nodded. “Collaborator now, and we’re very close friends. But she couldn’t be involved.” 
“I don’t know,” I said. “Sounds like motive to me, stealing a colleague’s secret proof to publish yourself.” 
Halliday snorted. “I would sooner believe Rita capable of murder.” 
Arthur and I exchanged a look over her head, but Halliday’s gaze had unfocused into the distance, and she missed it. 
“How did the robbery happen?” Arthur prompted gently, after a moment. 
“Wednesday I came home and—there was no sign someone had broken in, nothing,” Halliday answered. “But all of my notebooks were gone. Just gone.” 
“What about your computer?” I asked. 
She shook her head. “I work in longhand. I was only just now going back through the proof to rewrite it for publication—so many years, so many dead ends and notes, and...they took it all. I went back to my office immediately and found my work here cleaned out, too. Even though none of it was relevant to the factorization problem, they still took everything. And the next morning I found the note.” 
There was his breathing, deep and oceanic, and there was the sound in his mind's ear, the sound of the streamers hissing away into the ether. 
He'd gone out in the world and now he'd gone back into a cell. He supposed that it was meant to sweat him, to make him mad, to make him make mistakes. But he had been trained by sixteen years in the Order and this was not sweating him at all. 
"Come along then." The door opened with a cotton-soft sound from its balanced hinges, letting light into the room and giving him the squints. 
"I wondered about your friends," Lawrence said. "All those people at the restaurant." 
"Oh," Randy said. He was a black silhouette in the doorway. "Well, you know. Honor among thieves. Rank hath its privileges." 
"They were caught," he said. 
"Everyone gets caught," Randy said. 
"I suppose it's easy when everybody is guilty." He thought of Posy. "You just pick a skillset, find someone with those skills, and then figure out what that person is guilty of. Recruiting made simple." 
She got the boy breathing and ended up with more puke on her face, on Damian's jacket, in her hair. His pulse was thready but there. She turned to the swimmer and saw that he was a muscular surfer dude in board shorts with a couple of bitchun tatts and a decent body-paint job. He was breathing, too, but his heart was erratic as hell. She pressed two fingers to his throat. 
"What happened?" she said. "Who saw it happen?" 
One of the aunts stepped forward and said, "My son says they were playing --" 
She held up her hand. "Where's your son?" she said. 
"He's back at the house," the aunt said, startling back. 
"Send someone for him, then tell me what happened." 
The aunt looked like she'd been slapped, but the other Relatives were staring at her and so she had to talk, and then the boy arrived and he told it again and it was pretty much the same story, but she was able to get more details, as she began to examine both the boy and the surfer's bodies for cuts, bruises, breaks and punctures. She gave the boy's clothes the same treatment she'd given her own, gently but forcefully tearing them off, using a seashell to start the tears at first, then a pocket-knife that someone put in her hand. 
“Dr. Martinez stole your work,” I added to the professor. “She stole your work, and it led to you getting kidnapped, and even then she said nothing. If she’s got a polynomial-time reduction, she might have halved the search time we took tracking you down—” We might have avoided the Feds entirely; “She didn’t know what you can do,” Halliday pointed out. “She didn’t know how you were searching.” 
“Yeah, because a Hamiltonian cycle isn’t one of the most famous NP-complete problems of all time! She left you to die! If she’d rubbed two brain cells together, she would have known we were using some type of search algorithm and that her math could have helped—” 
“She probably didn’t think about it,” Halliday said. “Rita doesn’t...sometimes she doesn’t see the things in front of her. She’s too lost in the mathematics. I can’t fault her for that.” 
“Or for ruining all your research?” 
She turned away from me slightly. “She was trying to do what was best for me.” 
“Arthur,” I said again, “You convince her. Convince her!” 
Kilgore shuffles through the pile, finding one that looks wide enough to fit his stubby fingers. "I guess it's more interesting than a unit patch. " 
Ray scoops up the ones that remain and shovels them into his pocket. 
"What are they for?" Rodriguez asks. 
"For protection. "  Before Kilgore can come up with a witty rejoinder: "From what?" 
From having your bones liquefied by a pissed off demigod, Ray almost says. For an instant, he flashes back to Ba'dai, to Whitfield and the others collapsing like discarded garments, puddles of vacated flesh. Maybe Holcomb wasn't a complete asshole. Maybe he'd learned a lesson or two in the desert after all. Not that this gesture mitigated in any way Ray's desire to punch him in the skull. 
"What's all this sand jockey mumbo-jumbo mean?" Kilgore, subtle as a hand grenade. "I mean, I know sand jockey mumbo-jumbo when I see it." 
Ray just shrugs. 
But Rodriguez continues to turn the ring over on his finger, tracing the words, his lips moving. He glances up. 
“Maybe,” he said. 
“You going to pull the plug?” 
Sario looked up at the drop-ceiling, seeming to peer through the reinforced floors at the humming racks above. “Who knows?” he said at last. 
Van scratched and a flurry of white motes danced in the sunlight. 
“Let’s go find you a pharmacy,” Felix said. He walked to the door and the other sysadmins followed. 
They waited for the interior doors to close behind them and then Felix opened the exterior doors. The air smelled and tasted like a mown grass, like the first drops of rain, like the lake and the sky, like the outdoors and the world, an old friend not heard from in an eternity. 
“Bye, Felix,” the other sysadmins said. They were drifting away while he stood transfixed at the top of the short concrete staircase. The light hurt his eyes and made them water. 
“I think there’s a Shopper’s Drug Mart on King Street,” he said to Van. “We’ll thrown a brick through the window and get you some cortisone, OK?” 
“You’re the Prime Minister,” Van said. “Lead on.” 
"He said that entrepreneurial things -- parenthood, businesses..." 
"Any kind of risk-taking. Sports. No one swings for the stands when he knows that the odds are so much better on a bunt." 
"And Viktor wanted this?" 
She peered at him. "A world of people who understand risk are nearly as easy to lead around by the nose as a world of people who are incapable of understanding risk. The big difference is that the competition is at a massive disadvantage in the latter case, not being as highly evolved as the home team." 
He looked at her, really looked at her for the first time. Saw that she was the face of a monster, the voice of a god. The hand of a massive, unknowable machine that was vying to change the world, remake it to suit its needs. A machine that was good at it . 
"Clarity," he said. "Clarity." She looked perfectly attentive. "Do you think you'd have tried to kill Viktor if you'd been taking Clarity?" 
She blinked in surprise. "I don't think I ever considered the question." 
He waited. He found he was holding his breath. 
Take one normal human being at lunch. Ask her about her breakfast. If lunch is great, she'll tell you how great breakfast is. If lunch is terrible, she'll tell you how awful breakfast was. 
Now ask her about dinner. A bad lunch will make her assume that a bad dinner is forthcoming. A great lunch will make her optimistic about dinner. 
Explain this dynamic to her and ask her again about breakfast. She'll struggle to remember the actual details of breakfast, the texture of the oatmeal, whether the juice was cold and delicious or slightly warm and slimy. She will remember and remember and remember for all she's worth, and then, if lunch is good, she'll tell you breakfast was good. And if lunch is bad, she'll tell you breakfast was bad. 
Because you just can't help it. Even though you know you're doing it, you can't help it. 
But what if you could? 
"It was the parents," he said, as they picked their way through the treetops, along the narrow walkway, squeezing to one side to let the eager, gabbling researchers past. "That was the heartbreaker. Parents only remember the good parts of parenthood. Parents whose kids are grown remember a succession of sweet hugs, school triumphs, sports victories, and they simply forget the vomit, the tantrums, the sleep deprivation... It's the thing that lets us continue the species, this excellent facility for forgetting. That's what should have tipped me off." 
Besides, I was afraid. 
When I got upstairs I checked the apartment thoroughly. I should have left some kind of sign that would let me know if somebody had been in my stuff - a thread stuck in the door that would fall to the ground if it was opened, for instance. I was used to my online life being subject to surveillance, but not my bed- room. Not the kitchen or bathroom. I don’t know why that would make any difference, really. More of my life is lived online than not. But it did. 
Nothing seemed out of place. Nothing seemed disturbed - except me. I couldn’t shake off the creepy-crawly feeling that somebody was watching me, was in some weird way touching me. 
That somebody had been in our apartment, going through our clothes, fanning our books to see if anything fell out, browsing through the big fat stack of paper about Monica’s school loans, 
thinking “why would you borrow that much money for a useless history degree?” Holding up the underwear that had holes in it. 
Opening our refrigerator door and seeing that fuzzy thing that used to be a radish stuck to the bottom of the vegetable bin. It felt invasive. It felt dirty. 
She had a very odd feeling that this story was somehow of great importance to her, but that she must put it away, that she must keep it in her mind until later. This wasn’t the time to think about it. 
“Joe,” she said, “I want to hear more about this—all about it; but not now. I’m too tired.” 
He gave himself a shake, like a dog. Then he turned to her with a slow, good-natured smile. 
“I guess you are!” he said. “Lucky for you I just happened to be late to-night, taking them Ainsly girls ’way out to their house after a dance. Hop in, miss!” 
Lexy got in, and they set off. She leaned back and closed her eyes, but they flew open again as if of their own accord. There was something she wanted to see. Through the glass she could see Joe’s burly shoulders, a little hunched—Joe, who, like herself, wasn’t sure. 
“Not now!” said something inside her. “Don’t think about that now. Try not to think at all. Wait! Something is going to happen.” 
At the corner of the road leading to Mrs. Royce’s, she tapped on the window. Joe stopped the cab with a jerk, sprang down from his seat, and ran around to open the door. 
Remembered what? 
Dawna smiled, a predatory showing of teeth. “Let us start with an easy one. Sonrio. The degree to which you trust him is frankly insane. Where did you meet him?” She spoke as if she already knew the answer. 
“He saved me,” I said through stiff lips. Everything was starting to go off-balance, the world canting like it wanted to make me seasick, the numbers that always surrounded me bleeding together in a nonsensical, blurred mass. 
“Saved you?” said Dawna. “From what?” 
“From...” Flashes collided in my vision, as if I were in two places at once. Red tiles, and people in white coats. 
The roar of a helicopter exploded outside the windows. I felt barely aware of it even as it shook me apart, the thunder of it engulfing us, the beam of a searchlight blanching everything into stark whiteness. Dawna looked up. The muffled boom of a megaphone clogged the air, someone shouting unintelligibly, and out of the corner of my eye I saw more troops materialize at the door—why were they here, hadn’t she sent them all after Checker, had they found him?—but they were angry, their report grim, and Dawna whipped back toward me, her face filled with fury, and I thought, He did it, Checker did it! 
Rebecca burst into a passion of tears as she cried, "Poor, poor aunt Miranda! She is gone without taking a bit of comfort in life, and I couldn't say good-by to her! Poor lonely aunt Jane! What can I do, mother? I feel torn in two, between you and the brick house." 
"You must go this very instant," said Aurelia; starting from her pillows. "If I was to die while you were away, I would say the very same thing. Your aunts have done everything in the world for you,—more than I've ever been able to do,—and it is your turn to pay back some o' their kindness and show your gratitude. The doctor says I've turned the corner and I feel I have. Jenny can make out somehow, if Hannah'll come over once a day." 
"But, mother, I CAN'T go! Who'll turn you in bed?" exclaimed Rebecca, walking the floor and wringing her hands distractedly. 
"It don't make any difference if I don't get turned," replied Aurelia stoically. "If a woman of my age and the mother of a family hasn't got sense enough not to slip off haymows, she'd ought to suffer. Go put on your black dress and pack your bag. I'd give a good deal if I was able to go to my sister's funeral and prove that I've forgotten and forgiven all she said when I was married. Her acts were softer 'n her words, Mirandy's were, and she's made up to you for all she ever sinned against me 'n' your father! And oh, Rebecca," she continued with quivering voice, "I remember so well when we were little girls together and she took such pride in curling my hair; and another time, when we were grown up, she lent me her best blue muslin: it was when your father had asked me to lead the grand march with him at the Christmas dance, and I found out afterwards she thought he'd intended to ask her!" 
The door opened with startling suddenness. Lexy appeared, and took the roses out of his hand. 
“Thank you! Good night!” she said, and was gone again before he quite realized what was happening. 
Then he heard the key turn in the lock, and, bewildered and very uneasy, he went away. 
Lexy flung the roses down on the table, not even troubling to put them into water. 
“Anything to get rid of him!” she said to herself. “I want to be let alone!” 
She lay down on the bed again, pulling a blanket over herself. Downstairs she could hear Mrs. Royce moving about in the kitchen, and Captain Grey’s singularly agreeable voice talking to the landlady. It seemed to her that they were in a different world, and that she was shut outside, in a black and terrible solitude. 
“If I can only sleep!” she thought. “Perhaps, in the morning—” 
She was beginning to feel a little drowsy now. How heavenly it would be to sleep, even for a little while! To sleep and to forget! 
The wind was blowing through the dark little room, bringing to her the perfume of the roses—a wonderful fragrance. It was wonderful, but almost too strong. It was too strong. It troubled her. 
Leeza had a bra, though Valentine wasn’t convinced she needed it. But she had noticed a certain uncomfortable jiggling weight climbing the stairs, hadn’t she? Running? She hadn’t looked in the mirror in—Well, since the siege, practically. 
“There’s a bathroom there to change into,” he said. 
His bathroom was clean and neat and there were six toothbrushes beside the sink in a holder. 
“Who else lives here?” she said, coming out in her new clothes (the bra felt really weird). 
“I have a lot of friends who come and see me now and again. I hope you’ll come back.” 
“How come your place is like the war never happened?” 
“I’m the wizard, that’s why,” he said. “I can make magic.” 
His robots tied up her extra clothes in waterproof grip sheets for her, then helped her into a warm slicker with a hood. “Tell your mother that you met someone from the city who fed you and gave you a change of clothes,” he said, holding open the door. He’d explained to her where to go from there to get out to the old shopping street and from there she could manage on her own, especially since he’d given her one of his little pea-lights to carry with her. 
“You know it’s true. Halliday is the one they really need. Unless he’s the one in charge, they’d never trade him for her.” 
Checker leaned back and crossed his arms. “All right, it seems like you’ve got an idea. Let’s hear it.” 
“We don’t make them give up Halliday. We make them take me.” 
“ What?” 
“We convince them somehow that she needs help. That I wrote part of the proof. Whatever. You drop whatever electronic hints will make them think that.” I ignored the edge of recklessness limning my brain. This plan was perfect. “It’ll work. I can pass muster.” 
“Of course you can; that’s not the point!” 
“What is the point, then?” 
“That—that you’re trying to offer yourself up as bait to people who nearly killed you and Arthur just this morning, twice, and have already kidnapped another person and what would make you think they’d want to keep you alive once they’d finished with you anyway? This is a terrible idea!” 
“Come on, have you not met me?” I said. 
“What—I don’t—” 
“No one can keep me in a box. They catch me, they’ll take me to Halliday, I’ll get us both out. Easy as pie.” 
"You must go this very instant," said Aurelia; starting from her pillows. "If I was to die while you were away, I would say the very same thing. Your aunts have done everything in the world for you,—more than I've ever been able to do,—and it is your turn to pay back some o' their kindness and show your gratitude. The doctor says I've turned the corner and I feel I have. Jenny can make out somehow, if Hannah'll come over once a day." 
"But, mother, I CAN'T go! Who'll turn you in bed?" exclaimed Rebecca, walking the floor and wringing her hands distractedly. 
"It don't make any difference if I don't get turned," replied Aurelia stoically. "If a woman of my age and the mother of a family hasn't got sense enough not to slip off haymows, she'd ought to suffer. Go put on your black dress and pack your bag. I'd give a good deal if I was able to go to my sister's funeral and prove that I've forgotten and forgiven all she said when I was married. Her acts were softer 'n her words, Mirandy's were, and she's made up to you for all she ever sinned against me 'n' your father! And oh, Rebecca," she continued with quivering voice, "I remember so well when we were little girls together and she took such pride in curling my hair; and another time, when we were grown up, she lent me her best blue muslin: it was when your father had asked me to lead the grand march with him at the Christmas dance, and I found out afterwards she thought he'd intended to ask her!" 
Altogether existence grew brighter, and when she was left alone with the teacher for her grammar lesson she had nearly recovered her equanimity, which was more than Miss Dearborn had. The last clattering foot had echoed through the hall, Seesaw's backward glance of penitence had been met and answered defiantly by one of cold disdain. 
"Rebecca, I am afraid I punished you more than I meant," said Miss Dearborn, who was only eighteen herself, and in her year of teaching country schools had never encountered a child like Rebecca. 
"I hadn't missed a question this whole day, nor whispered either," quavered the culprit; "and I don't think I ought to be shamed just for drinking." 
"You started all the others, or it seemed as if you did. Whatever you do they all do, whether you laugh, or miss, or write notes, or ask to leave the room, or drink; and it must be stopped." 
"Sam Simpson is a copycoat!" stormed Rebecca "I wouldn't have minded standing in the corner alone—that is, not so very much; but I couldn't bear standing with him." 
“We’re going to go and drag him out, first thing tomorrow. He’s going to be a part of this, too. Everyone will. Screw the end of the world. The world doesn’t end. Humans aren’t the kind of things that have endings.” 
Rosa shook her head again, but she was smiling a little now. “And you’ll be what, the Pope-Emperor of the World?” 
“He prefers Prime Minister,” Van said in a stagey whisper. The anti-histamines had worked miracles on his skin, and it had faded from angry red to a fine pink. 
“You want to be Minister of Health, Rosa?” he said. 
“Boys,” she said. “Playing games. How about this. I’ll help out however I can, provided you never ask me to call you Prime Minister and you never call me the Minister of Health?” 
“It’s a deal,” he said. 
Van refilled their glasses, upending the wine bottle to get the last few drops out. 
The raised their glasses. “To the world,” Felix said. “To humanity.” He thought hard. “To rebuilding.” 
“To anything,” Van said. 
“To anything,” Felix said. “To everything.” 
"Cross analysis among other human sample sets in comparable states of excitation suggests a high state of sexual arousal. I'd just like to confirm this impression. For my files, you understand." 
"Shut up!" 
"Okay. I'm just asking. If it bothers you so much, I'll reach my own conclusions from available data." A very brief pause. "Ray?" 
"What?" 
"Available data suggests that you and Emma Whiston have a pronounced and mutual sexual attraction. " 
"Thanks." He wonders if this passes as humor for the drone AI. Ray says, "When I speak to you normally, 
outside this interface and outside the normal command vocabulary-like I'm talking to you now— do you understand what I'm saying?" 
"No. This new code you've input, like Lawrence's old code, is a verbal-to-binary translator. I don't have authority to access translation programs on my own." 
"In other words, it only works when I initiate the dialogue utility." 
"Exactly." 
"Then how do you know what I want you to do?" 
"Because you modulate your vocal patterns to a higher volume, as though I'm deaf, which tells me you want me to do something specific. The rest is inspired guesswork based on hand signals and vocal commands that have been hardcoded into my response logic tree. " 
The corners of her mouth tugged down further than I’d seen them go. I almost thought she’d crack a real smile that showed teeth and everything. “Surprise.” 
“I always thought ... I mean. Wow.” 
“You weren’t exactly my idea of Shad either.” 
I looked over at Wheeze. He had dozed off in the raggedy- armed chair by the stove. I wouldn’t have minded too much if he found out about the Group. But it was mine, in a way that I couldn’t explain. All of these overlapping parts of my life were getting confusing. 
“Good to know that problem I was having with the computer was just mechanical. I was afraid it was the government messing with me.” 
“They wouldn’t want to stop you from using your computer. 
They’d install a keylogger or a Trojan so they could watch every- thing you did.” She frowned. Smiles might not be her style, but frowns were. “I doubt they could, though. This is a pretty tight system you got here.” 
“That’s the only way I’d ever use the internet. I could live with- out it, but there’s some old books out there on animal husbandry that I’ve been going through for ideas. Lot of what you find in them is cockamamie, but sometimes they have home remedies that really work. Trying one on that chicken over there.” 
The pressure in his chest subsides gradually, until he's feeling normal again. 
"I've never given a woman a ring before," he offers as an explanation. "Promise me you'll wear it." 
"I will, Ray." 
"All the time. Until I tell you it's okay to take it off." 
"All right." 
In his quiet voice, he's saying: You are such a dumbass. 
After a time, Emma asks, "Ray, why did you just give me a ring." 
And because he's occupied with castigating himself for making such a disaster of it, for being such a freaking assclown, he doesn't give the proper attention to her question. Shoots the obvious response right past his neural processors, through the Dumbass Alert System and affiliated security checkpoints, straight into the output bin. He simply blurts out the first thing that pops into his forebrain. The true thing. 
"Because I love you." 
And she didn't even have to use sodium penethol to get it out of him. Had Jack Holcomb heard him, he would have busted him back down to sergeant on the spot. Then fired him. Probably had him executed just for good measure before he went off blabbing even more confidential, potentially state toppling information. 
Then it hit me. Steve's in there. It was a horror that, in my initial shock, I couldn't actually process, the thought just hovering in the recesses of my brain defying me to accept it. 
Then Alex Goddard turned back, shouting at the Army...  the word for fire—that galvanized them to action. They snapped out of their mental paralysis and headed down the pyramid, toward two Land Rovers parked at the back. 
Next he turned around and fixed his gaze on me. At last he knew / knew he was capable of unspeakable evil, and I knew he knew I would do everything in my power to stop him. 
"All my records." His voice sounded as though it was coming from another world, and it held a sadness that touched even me. "You have no idea what's been lost." 
He was distraught, but also obsessed. With his wild mane of hair, he did, finally, look like Shiva the Destroyer. He stalked over and seized the obsidian knife, then turned to­ward me. 
I looked for something to defend myself with. The bassi­nets, which I might have used as a shield were gone. I only had my bare hands. 
Adam Ladd wended his way to the principal's office in a thoughtful mood. He had come to Wareham to unfold a plan that he had been considering for several days. This year was the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the Wareham schools, and he meant to tell Mr. Morrison that in addition to his gift of a hundred volumes to the reference library, he intended to celebrate it by offering prizes in English composition, a subject in which he was much interested. He wished the boys and girls of the two upper classes to compete; the award to be made to the writers of the two best essays. As to the nature of the prizes he had not quite made up his mind, but they would be substantial ones, either of money or of books. 
This interview accomplished, he called upon Miss Maxwell, thinking as he took the path through the woods, "Rose-Red-Snow-White needs the help, and since there is no way of my giving it to her without causing remark, she must earn it, poor little soul! I wonder if my money is always to be useless where most I wish to spend it!" 
I was going to figure out what was going on here if it was the last thing I did. Whoever had done this to me—Dawna Polk or Pithica or some shadowy government organization of people in dark suits—I was going to take the bastards down so hard it would register on the Richter scale. I realized I was literally growling, deep in my throat, a low, animal sound. 
“I have a conjecture about what might be happening,” said Rio. “Tell me, Cas. Did you tell Dawna Polk you were meeting me here?” 
“Yes, I—” My head suddenly started ringing as if I’d been clocked, and I felt as if I were seeing double. I told her... But that wasn’t like me either. I hardly ever told anybody anything. Why would I have told Dawna I was meeting Rio? And where? 
Well, she was crying and wanted to know you were doing something for Courtney, and you’re clumsy with people so you were probably just talking in order to say something... 
I didn’t know what shocked me more: that my brain was trying to rationalize this, or that this type of rationalization might have worked a few minutes ago. A deep and furious self-loathing thrummed through me. 
"You brought samples?" 
"I'm afraid I couldn't show them to you. The design specs are extremely confidential, at the request of the client." 
Shue raises his hands between them, an I'm not trying to pry gesture. "Hey, that's cool. Fair enough. Just sort of a hobby of mine. " 
Of course, digging up clandestine negotiation details is a hobby they all seem to have in common. Corporate espionage is the currency of the young up-and-comer. 
But Shue goes on, lowering his voice. "I just find it interesting that the big W is moving in on territory it already has a proprietary interest in, if you know what I mean. The Board has been pretty aggressive, it seems to me, in dealing with the New H branch as it is, at least if you pay attention to the types of signs guys like us look at. Could be a strong move to entice Whelemat back into the fold, especially since they didn't have to use their own capital investments for the grunt work. " 
"Yes," Rodriguez agrees, though he has no idea what it means. 
This is a terrible idea. I wasn’t sure if the voice belonged to me, Arthur, Checker, or the man from my nightmares. 
“Shut up,” I said. “I’ll find a way.” 
I flopped down on my bed, but couldn’t close my eyes. If I did, I would dream. 
By the time my email chimed again, I had a plan. 
The Lancer’s response to my overture was short and suspicious, but as Tegan had come through with the promised referral, he was willing to talk. Hopefully the revelation that someone had solved P versus NP would tantalize him enough to override any further common sense. 
I felt a brief pang of guilt for screwing over Tegan’s good reference. If this ended the way I wanted it to, the Lancer and whoever among his men were unlucky enough to be with him would end up dead or in NSA custody. I mollified myself with the fact that “dead or muzzled by the NSA” meant they wouldn’t be able to go around spreading the gossip that Tegan’s word hadn’t been on the level. 
I sent the Lancer a very clear, firmly-worded email laying out my plan, and then drove to Checker’s house and parked down the street. 
"You'll like her; she writes," whispered Huldah to Rebecca the first morning at prayers, where the faculty sat in an imposing row on the front seats. "She writes; and I call her stuck up." 
Nobody seemed possessed of exact information with which to satisfy the hungry mind, but there was believed to be at least one person in existence who had seen, with his own eyes, an essay by Miss Maxwell in a magazine. This height of achievement made Rebecca somewhat shy of her, but she looked her admiration; something that most of the class could never do with the unsatisfactory organs of vision given them by Mother Nature. Miss Maxwell's glance was always meeting a pair of eager dark eyes; when she said anything particularly good, she looked for approval to the corner of the second bench, where every shade of feeling she wished to evoke was reflected on a certain sensitive young face. 
One day, when the first essay of the class was under discussion, she asked each new pupil to bring her some composition written during the year before, that she might judge the work, and know precisely with what material she had to deal. Rebecca lingered after the others, and approached the desk shyly. 
“Of course I am.” 
“Walk me through the course of events since I saw you last. It is not foolproof, but I shall tell you if I observe inconsistency.” 
And it would be good for him to have my intel in any case. I took a deep breath and started with Courtney Polk going missing, then described my night with Tresting, finding the office workers, Leena’s abrupt change, and the meeting with Finch and Steve. Rio listened quietly. I shared everything, up to and including Tresting’s and my final conversation. 
“I think that’s why I’m feeling so defensive,” I finished unhappily. “Unless Dawna Polk has been messing me up again. But he was so—he was so patronizing.” And since he had implied I was not only a thoughtless kid but one who went around killing people...“Rio, am I—do you think I’m green? Do I act like it?” 
He seemed to think for a moment. “In some circumstances. You can be impulsive.” 
I wanted to curl up in a corner and disappear from the world. So much for being good at what I did. 
“You are young, you realize,” Rio continued. “I am given to understand that impetuosity is to be forgiven in youth.” 
“Yeah, but it’s online. It could be worse.” 
“Sorry if I acted kind of . . . I’m still trying to match you up with Shad, you know? I had this different picture in my head. Not a girl.” He pressed his lips together and tried to hold it in for a minute, little snorts leaking out. “Named Zenobia.” He was howl- ing with laughter again as the party started to break up. 
Jason and Tyler stayed behind to take apart the traveling Fara- day cage and erase all signs of our presence. Outside, the freezing rain had turned into snow. Ian said I couldn’t ride my bike in such awful weather. For some reason, I didn’t mind him fussing at me, 
even though I was used to riding in snow and not at all used to letting people tell me what to do. I took my front wheel off and stowed it and my bike in his trunk as Geoff put the empty pizza boxes and case of empties into his rental car. Zeke, fortunately, 
didn’t have a car, so nobody had to worry about taking his keys away from him. He climbed into the back seat of Ian’s rental. By the time I got in, he was stretched out across the backseat, his knees bent to fit, one arm dangling down to the floor, doing a great dead-guy imitation until he started to snore. 
It was exactly the opening I needed. “Well, she’ll have more than enough to occupy her soon. Rio managed to poison her, you know. Back when we were all captured. A bad poison, too. She’ll be starting to feel the effects any time now and be dead in two days. Christ, what a relief.” I bit my lip. I was talking too much, but then, I’m a very bad liar. 
Arthur didn’t seem to notice. He went still. “ What?” 
“Yeah. There’s an antidote, but once she starts showing symptoms, it’ll be too late. Come on, let’s head.” I kept him in the corner of my eye, wondering if he would turn the shotgun on me, demand the antidote to take back to Dawna. But he didn’t seem to be that far gone. 
Hopefully he’d be just far gone enough to warn her. 
We left the motorcycle in a park a few blocks out and I led the way at a jog, hoping I remembered the layout of streets correctly in this part of Los Angeles. I didn’t have the city memorized by a long shot, but I’d had enough close escapes that I had made a point of swallowing large portions of the road map, and hard experience had taught me to take special care to know the areas near the airports. 
"Know what she said? Sarah?" He choked for a second, then continued. "She said, 'Yes, I want to go back.' " 
B efore I could ask him what the hell he was talking about, the medics were ringing the doorbell. They strode in with a gurney, also rolling a portable plasma IV, young guys who looked like they'd be more at home at a Garden hockey game, followed immediately by two uniformed policemen, actually policewomen, one short and heavy, with reddish hair, the other a wiry young Hispanic. (I found out that ambulances called out for stabbing or gunshot wounds automatically get a cop escort.) In less than three minutes, Lou was in the blue-and-white ambulance and on his way to St. Vincent's emergency room. 
I rode in the backseat of the squad car as we followed them and tried to explain what little I knew of what had happened. It turned out to be an education in the mindless sticking points of the law. 
Long story short: The fact that I hadn't reported the bur­glary of my apartment that very same day immediately cast doubt on my seriousness as a truth-seeking citizen; I had no proof the unreported burglary of my apartment (if, indeed, such had actually occurred) was by some Guatemalan mili­tary attache named Jose Alvino Ramos; since Lou had never seen Colonel Ramos before tonight, he couldn't possibly identify him as that burglar either; accusing diplomats of a crime without ironclad proof was frowned on downtown; and when I stupidly repeated what Lou had said about Sarah's last words (well, he was going to tell them sooner or later, it would just come bubbling out at some point), the whole case that she was kidnapped went into revision mode. 
I could tell he had a hero-worship thing going on with Zip from the first time he told me about him. “You should hear about what he did in London,” Wilson told me, his eyes all bright, so happy that he got to be friends with somebody like Zip. They had met at a protest in Chicago where Wilson had lucked out on a great spot on top of a statue of some famous dead guy, and Zip asked him for a hand up. Then Zip asked if he could get a ride out of town. He crashed the next night at Wilson’s house. Well, 
the house Wilson and some of his friends had been living in, to be accurate. It got foreclosed and they moved in as a protest, only the bank forgot about it or something and nobody came to throw them out. They’d been squatting there for two years. 
Until the FBI showed up. 
Another big load of anxiety and dread suddenly landed on me. 
<zen> They'll be looking for you, too. 
<wheeze> I know. I'm heading out. 
<zen> Be safe. 
Whatever was going on, I really didn’t want Wheeze to get in trouble. He was my friend, and I didn’t have enough of them to spare. He was smart and funny and the kind of person who would take a bug outside and let it go to avoid squashing it. I was afraid that he would disappear and I might never see him again. At least we had a secure way to communicate. 
“No, it wouldn’t, but my head will explode if you keep wasting my time. Do you have any more questions pertaining to some- thing other than prurient interest?” 
“Prur . . . how do you spell that?” 
“Look it up in the dictionary.” She had a killer glare. I wouldn’t want to be facing her in a courtroom. “Zenobia, you need to take care. Your brother has enough problems.” 
“I know.” 
“And you’re aware of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act and its penalties?” I started to speak, but she held up a warning finger. 
“Constrain your answer to a yes or no.” 
“Yes.” 
She studied me for a moment. “Hypothetically, if you were going to help your brother, what would you do? Aside from drag- ging a lawyer out of retirement and getting her to do a lot of work for free.” 
“You actually want to know?“ “Let’s keep this in the realm of hypotheticals. That is, based on a proposed theory rather than actual — “ “I know what the word means.” I also knew that she wanted to find out what I was planning without having to spill the beans if questioned under oath. “What I might do to help my brother is show the world how the FBI tricks people into saying they’re going to do things that they would never do if the FBI hadn’t goaded them into it. How the FBI encourages people to say they’re going to break the law just so they’ll have a chance to arrest them. 
"The bars on your collar gave you away. I'm Ray Marlowe. Chief Becker has probably spoken to you by now." 
Cable straightens his shoulders and drops his arms to his side, a pose of relaxed attention. "Becker said I would feel the powerful urge to salute you, but that I should probably resist the urge. " He tacks a tentative "sir" onto the end after the slightest hesitation, clearly uncertain about the proper etiquette. 
"Stop it," Ray answers, rolling his eyes. "Becker has delusions of rank inflation. Just call me Ray."  Cable relaxes at once, much to Ray's relief. The captain is a massive black man, clean shaven from chin to scalp and roughly the same size and dimensions as the typical Division I All- American linebacker. If he'd wanted to salute, Ray probably wasn't going to be able to stop him. 
"And you've come for Rodriguez and Kilgore?" 
"Actually, at the moment I've come to seek your permission to borrow them. I'm not interested in putting a scuff on your boots. If you can't spare them, I'll recruit assistants from somewhere else, but I'd honestly prefer to work with Marines. " 
"Let me tell you," I said, interrupting him. He looked star­tled, clearly not accustomed to a woman meeting him on his own ground. "He has four hands because he has a lot to do. That little drum in his upper right summons things into exis­tence. And there in his upper left he holds a fire that de­stroys." 
Goddard was examining me curiously, but I just stared back and continued. 
"His lower right hand is held up in a kind of benediction, as if to say, 'Find your peace within,' and the lower left points down at his feet, where one foot is planted on the back of that repulsive little dwarf there, the human ego. Crush the ego and be free. The other foot is lifted to signify spiritual freedom." 
"You seem to know the Shiva well." He broke into a grudging smile, as though we'd just met. Chalk up round one as a draw. "I'm glad you came, Ms. James. I'm a great admirer of your work and I especially wanted to provide your orientation personally. It's a genuine pleasure to meet you at last." 
At last? I took his proffered hand and stared. All the ques­tions I'd been brooding over for the past week sort of disap­peared into a memory file somewhere. Instead all I could do was focus in on him. 
It all made the city seem more subdued, like being inside an elevator, embarrassed by the close scrutiny of your neighbors and the ubiquitous cameras. ...  Street fixed me up good with a...  enough to stand a spoon up in, and it...  like Red Bull. Take it from someone who's read the Wikipedia entry: this is how the Ottoman Empire was won: maddened horsemen fueled by...  out my debit card to pay and he made a face. "No more debit," he said. 
"Huh? Why not?" I'd...  card for years at the Turk's. He used to hassle me all the time, telling me I was too young to drink the stuff, and he still refused to serve me at all during school hours, convinced that I was skipping class. But over the years, the Turk and me have developed a kind of gruff understanding. 
There's no surer way to make me want to understand than to tell me I won't. I wheedled him, demanding that he tell me. He looked like he was going to throw me out, but when I asked him if he thought I wasn't good enough to shop there, he opened up. 
"Ray." 
The kid holds out his hand, a solemnly adult gesture. Ray shakes with him. "My name's John Robert. John Robert Rose. Do you want to watch with us?" 
Ray glances at Emma, rolls his shoulders. It isn't exactly what he was expecting, but he can think of worse ways to pass an hour. "It's Captain Shadow." 
"You can sit by me," John Robert says, scooting across the couch to make space. "You can watch too, Miss Emma, if you want. You might like Captain Shadow. He's smart, and he likes Princess Shemi, but he only kisses on her sometimes. But not in this one, I hope." 
"Kissing is gross," another boy pops in. "Why would he want to kiss her so much?" 
"I think kissing is dreamy. " This from a strawberry haired girl curled up on the floor with a doll and a plush  bear. "I like the kissing parts." 
John Robert rolls his eyes. "Adriana, you don't even know what 'dreamy' means." 
"I do so, John Robert." 
"Do not." 
"Yeah-huh." 
"He only kisses her 'cause her dad would have him put in prison if he blasted her. " A different boy this time, 
you’d have to be dumb to talk advocate for violent action.” 
“This is Simon Meyer we’re talking about, right?” 
“Okay, Simon is kind of dumb, but he’s a good actor, too. Peo- ple think he’s a radical activist just because he learned his lines and he’s confident and outgoing.” 
“He has charisma, no doubt, but so do I. It’ll be a duel, 
charisma at twenty paces.” 
Nikko had a point. He was Simon Meyer’s match in the charm and confidence department, and he had a ton of friends. If it was me in that duel, Simon would win hands down, but in a Nikko versus Simon fight, Nikko at least had an even chance of com- ing out ahead. Then again, Simon had the advantage of having no morals. 
“He’s unscrupulous. He attacks women and is used to getting away with it. If you got him in a corner, he could hurt you.” 
“So long as he doesn’t figure out what’s going on, I should be fine. How do we get things on the record once the FBI gets involved? They’ll want me to wear a wire or whatever they actually use these days, but I doubt they’ll let me record the conversations we have, and what they say to me will be important, right?” 
"So where does that leave us?" 
"Go back to the lab. Archive him. Think of ways to shut him down -- Wait, no. First do anything and everything you can think of to limit his ability to communicate with the outside world." She rubbed at her eyes. "I know I don't have to say this, but I'll say it. Don't talk to the press. To anyone, even people at the Institute, about this. Refer any questions to me. I am as serious as a heart-attack about that. Do you believe me?" 
I not only believed her, I resented her because I am a sysadmin and I keep more secrets every day than she'll keep in her whole life. I knew, for example, that she played video Pai-Gow Poker, a game so infra-dumb that I can't even believe I know what it does. Not only did she play it, she played it for hours , while she was on the clock, "working." I know this because the IDSes have lots of snitchware built in that enumerates every "wasted moment" attributable to employees of the Institute. I have never told anyone about this. I even manage to forget that I know it most of the time. So yes, I'll keep this a secret, Peyton, you compulsive-gambling condescending pointy-haired boss. 
She didn’t touch the PC the first day, nor the second. The kids in the game—she didn’t know what to do about them. On the third day, after hockey, she showered and changed and sat down and slipped the headset on. 
“Hello, Anda.” 
“Hi, Sarge.” 
Lucy had known the minute she entered the game, which meant that she was still on Lucy’s buddy-list. Well, that was a hopeful sign. 
“You don’t have to call me that. We’re the same rank now, after all.” 
Anda pulled down a menu and confirmed it: she’d been promoted to Sergeant during her absence. She smiled. 
“Gosh,” she said. 
“Yes, well, you earned it,” Lucy said. “I’ve been talking to Raymond a lot about the working conditions in the factory, and, well—” She broke off. “I’m sorry, Anda.” 
“Me too, Lucy.” 
“You don’t have anything to be sorry about,” she said. 
They went adventuring, running some of the game’s standard missions together. It was fun, but after the kind of campaigning they’d done before, it was also kind of pale and flat. 
“It’s horrible, I know,” Anda said. “But I miss it.” 
God help me, I thought, my mind-state turning even more morose. This is my life. I had become that retrograde Woman of the Nineties: works ninety hours a week, makes ninety thou a year, weighs ninety pounds, and...  Fucking are provinces in northern China. Well, the ninety-pounds part of that obscene quip didn't fit—and it wasn't the nineties anymore, anyway. 
In any case, was my apartment a place to raise a child? No earthly way. Like Carly, I'd have to spring for some decent space, preferably with a washing machine. . . . 
A parking slot was open right in front of my building, a minor miracle on this day of uncertain events. As I was pull­ing in, I glanced over to see a man walking past, not catching the face but sensing something familiar in the walk. He was in the process of unbuttoning a Federal Express uniform, peeling away the top to reveal a dark suit. He certainly seemed to be in a big hurry, carrying an unmarked shopping bag. Maybe, I thought, his shift was over and he was meeting his wife, or a friend. 
Leon puzzled over this. "Eunuchs?" 
"Royal Eunuchs. They had this whole culture, and as I got closer and closer to him, I realized, shit, they could just buy Ate. They could destroy us. They could have us made illegal, put us all in jail. Or get me elected president. Anything." 
"You were overawed." 
"That's the right word. It wasn't a castle or anything, either. It was just a place, a well-built collection of buildings. In Westchester, you know? It had been a little town center once. They'd preserved everything good, built more on top of it. It all just...worked. You're still new here. Haven't noticed." 
"What? That Ate is a disaster? I figured that out a long time ago. There's several dozen highly paid creative geniuses on the payroll here who haven't seen their desks in months. We could be a creative powerhouse. We're more like someone's vanity project." 
"Brutal." 
He wondered if he'd overstepped himself. Who cared? 
"Brutal doesn't mean untrue. It's like, it's like the money that came into this place, it became autonomous, turned into a strategy for multiplying itself. A bad strategy. The money wants to sell something to a monster, but the money doesn't know what monsters want, so it's just, what, beating its brains out on the wall. One day, the money runs out and..." 
The woman had raised her thin arms above her head, stretching. Then, for a moment, she stood in an odd and lovely pose, with her hands clasped behind her head. Oh, surely no one else ever stood like that! That figure, that attitude—it couldn’t be any one else! 
“Caroline!” cried Lexy. “Caroline!” 
The woman did not hear. She was moving toward the long windows of the room, and her every step, every line of her figure, was familiar and unmistakable to Lexy. 
“Caroline!” she cried, running forward across the wet sand. “Wait! Wait for me, Caroline!” 
A hand seized her arm. With a gasp, she looked into the pale, heavy face of Dr. Quelton. He was smiling. 
“Miss Moran!” he said. “This is an unexpected pleasure—” 
Lexy jerked her arm away, and looked up at the windows of the sun parlor. The woman had gone. 
“I saw Caroline!” she said. “In there!” 
“Caroline?” he repeated. “I’m afraid, I’m very much afraid, Miss Moran, that you’ve made a mistake.” 
Their eyes met. In that instant, Lexy knew. He was still smiling with an expression of bland amusement at this extraordinary little figure in the huge coat; but he was her enemy, and she knew it. 
“Yes. Courtney Polk—bless her, we already had her working for the cartels, and she was perfect for this role. You see, we needed someone who might conveniently be taken captive. And who might conveniently be worthy of rescuing.” 
Be worthy of... 
The pieces were starting to come together, even with half my thoughts busy at pointless arithmetic. “It was a test.” As I said it, I was sure. “Courtney didn’t know it, but she and the cartel, they were all your people all along. You were testing me.” 
Dawna hesitated, almost as if embarrassed. “No. We, ah, we weren’t testing you.” 
And suddenly I understood. “You were testing Rio.” 
She inclined her head slightly. 
They hadn’t cared about me at all; I was only another pawn. Somehow, the game had always been about Rio. “You wanted to see if Rio would rescue her,” I said slowly, feeling my way through. “You already knew he was working a cover. And when he didn’t...” 
“You are unusual, Ms. Russell,” said Dawna. “You may not be aware of quite how much. The relationship you have with Mr. Sonrio is—well, in point of fact, you are the only person we have found who has a relationship with him. When I sent you in after Ms. Polk, we wanted to see how far he would go. For you.” 
I batted weakly at the wet cloth being dabbed against my face. “ I was going to be that,” I slurred. 
“Russell? You was gonna be what?” 
I came more fully awake and tried to sit up. The room spun immediately. Lines of space and time crisscrossed each other in sick, twisted, impossible ways. I had no warning before I was turning to the side and vomiting up every meal I’d ever eaten, and then vomiting up stomach lining. At least, that was how it felt. 
“Whoa! Whoa, sweetheart. Lie back down.” I kept my eyes shut, listening to Arthur’s voice as his hands guided me. The stench of sick filled the air. “I’ll clean up. Lie still for a touch.” 
I heard him start moving around and cautiously tried cracking my eyes open again. Everything was still squiggly and strange, but at least it wasn’t so wrong anymore. I was lying on a pallet in the corner of some sort of empty industrial warehouse. 
Arthur finished what he was doing and came back; he supported my head and tilted a cup of water against my mouth. “Easy, girlfriend. Take it easy.” 
Becker perks up immediately. "You got a hit?" 
"No, but I did get something close to it. " Ray spins back to the terminal and pulls up a graphic display window that overlays the vid record. In it is a graph, a series of jagged pastel lines and arches, a tabulation of DNA profile data in standard bio-match blot matrix. "Do you know what this is?" 
"It's a DNA id matrix," Becker says slowly, studying the graph. "But you've only got matches on two loci." 
"Exactly." 
"That's useless. You've narrowed the suspect pool down from hundreds of billions to tens of billions." 
"Which is why we weren't getting any definitive hits against the standard databases." Ray brings up another image, a still shot of a false color cell structure, grainy and bulbous, limned in unnatural neons. "This is a captured image some of the actual physical data obtained at the crime scene. I want you to notice this little structure here, the gold one that looks like a parenthesis. And over here, the trapezoidal object in front of the nucleus. Those aren't what I would term naturally occurring shapes." 
"It started with China," she said. "Once we moved our servers onto the mainland, they went under Chinese jurisdiction. They could google everyone going through our servers." Greg knew what that meant: if you visited a page with Google ads on it, if you used Google maps, if you used Google mail -- even if you sent mail to a gmail account -- Google was collecting your info, forever. 
"They were using us to build profiles of people. Not arresting them, you understand. But when they had someone they wanted to arrest, they'd come to us for a profile and find a reason to bust them. There's hardly anything you can do on the net that isn't illegal in China." 
Greg shook his head. "Why did they put the servers in China?" 
"The government said they'd block them if they didn't. And Yahoo was there." They both made a face. Somewhere along the way, Google had become obsessed with Yahoo, more worried about what the competition was doing than how they were performing. "So we did it. But a lot of us didn't like the idea." ...  her voice. One of the dogs whined. "I made it my 20 percent project." Googlers were supposed to devote 20 percent of their time to blue-sky projects. "Me and my pod. We call it the googlecleaner. It goes deep into the database and statistically normalizes you. Your searches, your gmail histograms, your browsing patterns. All of it." 
There was no answer. Lexy crossed the room to the window and looked out. The balcony, too, was dim, with Venetian blinds drawn down on every side, and on a narrow cot lay Muriel Quelton. There was a bandage over her forehead and covering her hair, and under it her face had a mystic and terrible beauty. She was as white as a ghost, with great dark circles beneath her eyes; and she was so still—so utterly still—that Lexy was stricken with terror. 
Captain Grey was sitting beside her in a low chair, holding one of her lifeless hands, and Lexy saw on his face such anguish as she had never looked upon before. 
“My dear!” he said again. 
Her weary eyes opened and looked up at him. Then the shadow of a smile crossed her face. 
“Stay!” she whispered. 
Lexy drew nearer. Tears were running down her cheeks. She tried to read the nurse’s face, but she could not. 
“How is—she—getting on?” she asked, speaking very low. 
“Lexy!” came a voice from the cot, almost inaudible. “Take it—the top drawer—of the bureau—for you.” 
“Jesus Christ,” I mumbled into my hands. “What the hell?” 
“I believe Dawna Polk might answer some questions for us,” said Rio. 
“I know how to find her.” The shock and horror were coalescing into rage in the pit of my stomach. Dawna had done something to me. A drug? I hadn’t drunk anything with her, only eaten an energy bar that I’d brought with me, but there were other ways. Dawna Polk, you are going to give me answers. And after that... 
Well. I wasn’t a forgiving person. 
“I think, perhaps, it would be better if I took that part of the job,” said Rio smoothly. “It appears I cannot go back to my role here, and there is the chance you are...still affected.” 
I made an angry noise. “I’ll be on my guard.” 
“Even so. Let me take Dawna. Your time may be spent more profitably by talking to your new detective friend.” 
I almost laughed. “Tresting? I think you might not have a good grasp of the word ‘friend.’” 
Rio smiled slightly, and I felt myself flushing at the unintentional truth. “Doubtless,” he said, “But Tresting will have other contacts. And it is quite clear he will not talk to me. You can find out more of what he knows. I’ll track Miss Polk.” 
"You're psycho, Marcus. You're going to put all your little Xnet buddies in danger for their lives, and on top of it, you're going to turn the whole city into terrorism suspects. Can't you stop before you hurt these people?" 
I opened and closed my mouth a couple times. "Van, I'm not the problem, they are. I'm not arresting people, jailing them, making them disappear. The Department of Homeland Security are the ones doing that. I'm fighting back to make them stop." 
"How, by making it worse?" 
"Maybe it has to get worse to get better, Van. Isn't that what you were saying? If everyone was getting pulled over --" 
"That's not what I meant. I didn't mean you should get everyone arrested. If you want to protest, join the protest movement. Do something positive. Didn't you learn anything from Darryl? Anything? " 
"You're damned right I did," I said, losing my cool. "I learned that they can't be trusted. That if you're not fighting them, you're helping them. That they'll turn the country into a prison if we let them. What did you learn, Van? To be scared all the time, to sit tight and keep your head down and hope you don't get noticed? You think it's going to get better? If we don't do anything, this is as good as it's going to get . It will only get worse and worse from now on. You want to help Darryl? Help me bring them down!" 
“Can it, Russell,” Tresting growled. “This is too big.” 
He had a point. Of course, considering what we knew of Pithica, this was probably too big for the cops, too. 
We drove in silence almost all the way back. When Tresting found a space on the street a few blocks away from his office, he yanked the truck over into it, shifting gears so hard my teeth rattled. As he turned off the engine I reached for the door handle, but Tresting’s voice stopped me. 
“Russell.” 
“Yeah?” 
He made no move to get out. “Been thinking. This wasn’t Pithica. Not their style. And they wouldn’t do this to their own.” 
“New player, then?” I thought of Anton’s garage, of the men in dark suits at Courtney’s place. I saw the massacre in the office building again, my mind skittering away from the details. Maybe this mess had reached the point where I should throw in with Tresting for real, share everything. I opened my mouth. 
Tresting slammed the heels of his hands against the steering wheel. “ Dammit, Russell!” 
That might have been why Tresting hadn’t phoned his other contacts, but I was pretty sure he’d had a different reason for not calling me. It made me perversely eager to save his bacon again. I wanted to rub it in his face. “Gotcha. Anything else?” 
“Is it true?” Checker asked. “What Dawna Polk can do?” 
I swallowed. “Yeah. I’m pretty sure it is.” 
He didn’t say anything for a moment. 
“Are you still there?” I asked. 
“Yeah.” 
“Hey, listen,” I said, trying not to let his concern for Arthur irritate me. “Stop worrying about it. I’m on my way.” 
“Thank you. Really—thank you. I owe you big time. Anything you need, really, just say the word.” 
Well, that might be a useful favor to call in someday. But first I’d have to make it through the night. After walking into a Pithica trap. Goddamn Tresting. 
“And watch yourself, okay?” Checker added. 
I blinked. I hadn’t expected him to be concerned for me, too. I doubted he would miss me if something happened, but still, it was...nice of him. 
“Oh, don’t be stupid,” I said, a little too brusquely. “I’ll be fine.” 
He took a deep breath. “Life is cheap to you.” 
I started to get angry. “Those snipers had rifles pointed at us. It was self-defense.” 
“Yeah, and why was that? Your little trick with the hunk of wood? Violence ain’t always the best choice, you know. If you didn’t—” 
“We don’t know he was going to tell them to let us go,” I countered, bristling. “Maybe he was going to give the order to shoot on sight instead. Did you ever think of that?” 
“Maybe,” said Tresting, “and maybe we could’ve got out of there without anyone hurt at all if we just walked away. Without anyone else dying. And without another dozen eyewitnesses fingering us for a crime.” 
“You don’t know that,” I argued. “Any of it could have gone either way. And I did just save both our lives— again —so a little gratitude might be in order!” 
“Gratitude?” He shifted in his seat to face me. “You caused the whole damn situation in the first place! And shooting off a bunch of rounds in a crowded park—what if you’d hit an innocent?” 
That got a laugh, and she laughed too. She was pretty, in a weird, horsey way, with a long face and a long jaw. "I'm not really kidding, you know? I mean, think about it. Who elected these ass-clowns? Who let them invade our city? Who voted to put the cameras in our classrooms and follow us around with creepy spyware chips in our transit passes and cars? It wasn't a 16-year-old. We may be dumb, we may be young, but we're not scum." 
"I want that on a t-shirt," I said. 
"It would be a good one," she said. We smiled at each other. 
"Where do I go to get my keys?" she said, and pulled out her phone. 
"We'll do it over there, in the secluded spot by the caves. I'll take you in there and set you up, then you do your thing and take the machine around to your friends to get photos of your public key so they can sign it when they get home." 
I raised my voice. "Oh! One more thing! Jesus, I can't believe I forgot this. Delete those photos once you've typed in the keys ! The last thing we want is a Flickr stream full of pictures of all of us conspiring together." 
asking him what he was studying in school, what plays he had acted in, deflecting Nikko’s questions about how he could help, 
even though he was technically a minor. Then Jankovich came back into the room. She gave Martens a little nod before taking her chair again. 
“Okay, here’s the thing,” Martens said. “We’re taking this seri- ously, okay? We need to find out if this guy’s for real or if he’s just blowing smoke.” 
“I could introduce him to one of your agents, somebody undercover.” 
“I’ll bet you could. The questions you asked? Nicely done. 
You’d make one hell of an interrogator.” He turned to Jankovich. 
“I want to recruit this young man when he’s a little older. Sorry Janet. I got first dibs.” 
She blew air out of her cheeks and looked at her watch, mak- ing it clear that she wanted to get this show on the road. 
“Thing is, Nikko?” Martens said. “Given your age, we can’t ask you to take on a dangerous job.” 
“I don’t mind. I want to help.” 
“I appreciate that, but you’re a minor. It’s against the rules. So what I want you to do is stay away from Mr. Meyer and his big mouth. Far away.” 
“This has got to stop!” she thought, in alarm. “I can’t be such a chump!” 
She turned to Mrs. Quelton. 
“Are you going to grow any—” she began, but her voice was so unsteady that she had to stop for a moment. “Any flowers in—in your—g-garden?” 
The question ended in a loud and unmistakable sob. They all turned to look at her, startled and anxious. 
She made a desperate effort to regain control of herself. 
“S-snapdragon,” she said. “So—so p-pretty!” 
Then, suddenly, all her defenses gave way. The teacup fell from her hand and was shattered on the floor, and, burying her head in her arms, she cried as she had never cried in her life. 
Mrs. Quelton stood beside her, one hand resting on Lexy’s shoulder. Captain Grey was bending over her, profoundly disturbed. She tried to speak, but she could not. 
“Miss Moran!” said Dr. Quelton solicitously. “Will you allow me to give you a mild sedative?” 
“No!” she gasped. “No—I want to go home!” 
“I’ll telephone for the taxi,” suggested Captain Grey. “He wasn’t coming back until half past five.” 
He looked up at Van, and saw that his skinny shoulders were shaking. Van said, “Holy motherfucking shit. The world is ending.” 
Felix pried himself off of IRC an hour later. Atlanta had burned. Manhattan was hot—radioactive enough to screw up the webcams looking out over Lincoln Plaza. Everyone blamed Islam until it became clear that Mecca was a smoking pit and the Saudi Royals had been hanged before their palaces. 
His hands were shaking, and Van was quietly weeping in the far corner of the cage. He tried calling home again, and then the police. It didn’t work any better than it had the last 20 times. 
He sshed into his box downstairs and grabbed his mail. Spam, spam, spam. More spam. Automated messages. There—an urgent message from the intrusion detection system in the Ardent cage. 
He opened it and read quickly. Someone was crudely, repeatedly probing his routers. It didn’t match a worm’s signature, either. He followed the traceroute and discovered that the attack had originated in the same building as him, a system in a cage one floor below. 
"I believe you know where Mr Benson's office is," she said to me. "You are to present yourself to him immediately. I will not have my classes disrupted by disrespectful behavior. For someone who claims to love freedom of speech, you're certainly willing to shout down anyone who disagrees with you." 
I picked up my SchoolBook and my bag and stormed out. The door had a gas-lift, so it was impossible to slam, or I would have slammed it. 
I went fast to Mr Benson's office. Cameras filmed me as I went. My gait was recorded. The arphids in my student ID broadcast my identity to sensors in the hallway. It was like being in jail. 
"Close the door, Marcus," Mr Benson said. He turned his screen around so that I could see the video feed from the social studies classroom. He'd been watching. 
"What do you have to say for yourself?" 
"That wasn't teaching, it was propaganda . She told us that the Constitution didn't matter!" 
"No, she said it wasn't religious doctrine. And you attacked her like some kind of fundamentalist, proving her point. Marcus, you of all people should understand that everything changed when the bridge was bombed. Your friend Darryl --" 
"How's it going?" he asked, ostentatiously checking his watch, an approving gleam in his eyes. I was glad he wanted to let me know he'd noticed I was logging long hours. Then he looked at me again. "Hey, you feeling okay?" 
"I've been better," I said, thinking how nice it was that he cared. "Could be a couple of aspirin and a good night's sleep are called for." 
"So now you're a doctor?" he said, following me into the lobby, "Providing self-diagnosis—?" 
"David, give me a break. I just happen to feel a little off today, okay? It doesn't mean I'm at death's door." 
"Yeah, well, the way you look you coulda fooled me." He headed down the street, toward the avenue. Then he called back over his shoulder. "I don't want to see you in tomorrow unless you look like you might live through the day. I pay for your health insurance. Use it, for God's sake." 
After I found a cab, I began to think he might be right. This was no typical down day. So I decided I'd stop at the Duane Reade on my corner and talk to the pharmacist. 
Translation: second thoughts. 
"I don't know where that leaves us, Steve. In the shit, I guess. But I'd still like to know if I can count on you, or am I going to have to go to a sperm bank or something?" 
"Jesus. Let me think about this, okay? Do I have to answer you now?" 
"No. But I'm not going to wait forever either." 
"All right." Then he paused. "Morgy, I miss you. I really do. I just need some time to think about our next step. Are you sure you're okay? You sound a little out of it." 
"Thanks for asking. I've just got a lot on my mind." 
Turmoil, dismay, and hope, all tossed together, that was what I had on my mind. I really didn't need mixed signals from Steve at the moment. 
A few more awkward pleasantries and I clicked off the phone, wiped the streaks from my cheeks, and abruptly sensed Alex Goddard's face floating through my psyche. Why was that? Then I looked down at the bottles on the seat beside me, the "herbal extracts" Ramala had given me on the way out. What, I wondered, should I do about them? For that matter, what were they anyway? And what did they have to do with "centering"? If I started on his homeopathic treat­ments, what would I be getting into? Then I lectured myself: Never take something when you don't know what it is. 
"Why don't you put an end to all the evil?" I yelled at him finally, trying to project through the rain. "Just stop it right now." 
" Baalum was my life's work," he said. Then he looked down at the knife a moment, as though unsure what it was. Finally he turned and flung it in the direction of the river. 
"It could have been beautiful," I said back. Thank God the knife was gone. But what would he do next? "But now—" 
"No," he said staring directly at me, his eyes seeming to plead. "It is. It will be again. To make a place like Baalum is to coin the riches of God. I want you to stay. To be part of it. Together, we . . ." But whatever else he said was lost in the cloudburst that abruptly swept over the embankment. In an instant it was a torrent, the last outpouring of the storm, powerful and unrelenting. Nature had unleashed its worst, as though Kukulkan was rendering his final judgment. 
"Morgy, I'm falling," Sarah screamed. The ground she and I had been standing on began turning to liquid as though it were a custard melting in the tropical heat. As we began slipping down the embankment toward him, I gripped her arm with my left hand and reached up to seize a low-lying branch of the Cebia with my right. 
“Dr. Quelton came to see me this morning,” she observed. 
“Yes—he said he would. Very decent sort of chap, don’t you think?” 
“Do you mean you liked him?” asked Lexy. 
Captain Grey was a little startled by this Yankee notion of liking a person at first sight. 
“Well, you see,” he said, “I’ve only met him once; but he seems to me a very decent sort of chap. He’s clever, you know, and—and so on, and my sister seems very happy with him.” 
“Happy?” 
“Yes. I’ve been an ass, imagining all sorts of silly rot. She’s not very strong, I’m afraid, but she’s happy, and—well, you know, their life out there is lonely, of course, but there’s something about it, rather—rather charming, you know. I’d like you to see it for yourself. I was speaking about you to Muriel. She wants to know you, and I think you’d like her. Would you come out there to tea with me this afternoon?” 
“Yes!” cried Lexy, with a vehemence that surprised him. 
There was nothing in the world she wanted more at that moment than to see Captain Grey’s sister and to visit Dr. Quelton’s house. She didn’t exactly know why, and she didn’t care, but she wanted to. 
A ctually, I wasn’t too bummed about the group project. It was a dumb assignment for a dumb teacher who gave us so many instructions that every assignment was like assembling a piece of Ikea furniture that was all pre-cut and just had to be put together according to a million detailed steps. The grade was totally based on how well you could follow instructions, and the finished prod- ucts were pointless. With Ikea, at least you ended up with a book- case or a table. 
The good news was that Marcella was on our team, and she was good at instructions, though terrible at everything else. She would make sure we got it done on time and didn’t miss any of the pointless little steps or end up banging it together like furniture that works but has a few missing nuts and bolts, getting points off for it. We also had Dave, who doubled down on being not good at things. It was his career path. He was so good at letting everyone else do all the work, I was sure he’s be a CEO of something one day. 
And there was Nikko, who I actually liked. 
But she isn't looking at him. She's not actually looking much of anywhere so much as she's making a concerted effort to fold herself under the table. Ray has had extensive experience with the art of public fellation, so this doesn't throw him completely off. He's instantly well on his way to becoming erect, in fact, a reptilian-brain response to a recognized set of visual cues; but he's also a bit disappointed, given that he's spent the last half an hour negotiating traditional sexual terrain and was just starting to remember the rules well enough to participate. She could have saved a lot of time and aggravation if she'd gone straight for his trousers in the first place.  Emma doesn't go all the way under the table, though, just sinks below the level of the privacy wall separating their table from the concourse. 
"My brother," she whispers fiercely. 
"Your brother," Ray says, nodding. Of course. This is another of those traditional sexual terrain bits that he'd forgotten about. 
"He's looking for me." 
"I'm listening. Complete focus on my end." 
Ziggy rolls his eyes and flips subjects, some rogue neuron in his brain having misfired and convinced him without any evidence or historical proof to the contrary that Ray is actually going to do what he says. 
"Nina made some cookies for you." 
"Your wife likes me. She thinks I'm hot." 
"She thinks you need someone to take care of you so you don't starve." 
"As far as women are concerned, that's like the same difference, man." 
"You can pick them up when you've logged out for the night. I'll leave them sitting on my desk." 
The conversation over, Ziggy wanders back into his office and closes the door so he can maintain the illusion that he's about to be obeyed. Ray watches him go, contemplating the door for several seconds in silence. 
Ray winks at the rat. "Lunch, you say? Sure, let's go."   The first thing everyone learns about Paraclete is that there is no actual, locate-able, stroll through-able, 
smell-the-flower variety garden on the Garden Level. There are no hydroponic growth vats, no specialized lighting, no actual fauna which might be even vaguely confused with explosions of greenery and/or vegetable caliber edibles. 
> Ever meet the kind of guy who wanted to tell you just how much you shouldn't be enjoying the things you enjoy? The kind of guy who could explain, in detail, exactly why your passions were stupid? That was him. 
> "Brother Antony, why are you wasting your time collecting tin toys? They're badly made, unlovely, and represent, at best, a history of slave labor, starting with your cherished 'Made in Occupied Japan,' tanks. Christ, why not collect rape-camp macrame while you're at it?" He had choice words for all of us about our passions, but I was singled out because I liked to extreme program in my room, which I'd spent a lot of time decorating. (See pic, below, and yes, I built and sanded and mounted every one of those shelves by hand) (See magnification shot for detail on the joinery. Couldn't even drive a nail when I got here) (Not that there are any nails in there, it's all precision-fitted tongue and groove) (holy moley, lasers totally rock) 
> But he reserved his worst criticism for the Order itself. You know the litany: we're a cult, we're brainwashed, we're dupes of the Securitat. He was convinced that every instrument in the place was feeding up to the Securitat itself. He'd mutter about this constantly, whenever we got a new stream to work on -- "Is this your lifelog, Brother Antony? Mine? The number of flushes per shitter in the west wing of campus?" 
“Explain?” 
“Yeah. Why she kept saying it was the end. We already got earthquakes and police raids and all those dumb nuts in Washington mucking around printing money, and now there’s these papers that will collapse our country, I want to know why.” 
“Okay,” I said. “It’s a deal.” 
He sniffed like he had won. Then he turned and started shuffling back toward the building. “Come on, then.” 
He was so slow I had to resist the urge to pick him up and throw him over my shoulder, but finally his fumbling steps came to the back door of the ground-floor condo, and he negotiated his key ring with shaky hands. 
I followed him into a dim apartment only to be confronted with a hoarder’s paradise. Stacks of books and magazines climbed in threatening towers to the ceiling, and all manner of junk was crammed in at odd angles, from broken televisions to piles of clothing to at least two old bicycles. There were also mountains of bottled water, loose and in flats, and a row of five-gallon gasoline jugs behind a jumble of model rockets and bird cages. I was surprised the condo hadn’t broken apart at the seams. 
I lost it. "Dad! Are you listening to yourself ? They're talking about investigating practically every person in the city of San Francisco!" 
"Yeah," he said, "that's right. They'll catch every alimony cheat, every dope dealer, every dirt-bag and every terrorist. You just wait. This could be the best thing that ever happened to this country." 
"Tell me you're joking," I said. "I beg you. You think that that's what they intended when they wrote the Constitution? What about the Bill of Rights?" 
"The Bill of Rights was written before data-mining," he said. He was awesomely serene, convinced of his rightness. "The right to freedom of association is fine, but why shouldn't the cops be allowed to mine your social network to figure out if you're hanging out with gangbangers and terrorists?" 
"Because it's an invasion of my privacy!" I said. 
"What's the big deal? Would you rather have privacy or terrorists?" 
Agh. I hated arguing with my dad like...  on. Taking away our privacy isn't catching terrorists: it's just inconveniencing normal people." 
In a pool of twenty million people, a 99 percent accurate test will identify two hundred thousand people as being terrorists. But only ten of them are terrorists. To catch ten bad guys, you have to haul in and investigate two hundred thousand innocent people. 
Guess what? Terrorism tests aren't anywhere close to 99 percent accurate. More like 60 percent accurate. Even 40 percent accurate, sometimes. 
What this all meant was that the Department of Homeland Security had set itself up to fail badly. They were trying to spot incredibly rare events -- a person is a terrorist -- with inaccurate systems. 
Is it any wonder we were able to make such a mess? 
I stepped out the front door whistling on a Tuesday morning one week into the Operation False Positive. I was rockin' out to some new music I'd downloaded from the Xnet the night before -- lots of people sent M1k3y little digital gifts to say thank you for giving them hope. 
I turned onto 23d Street and carefully took the narrow stone steps cut into the side of the hill. As I descended, I passed Mr Wiener Dog. I don't know Mr Wiener Dog's real name, but I see him nearly every day, walking his three panting wiener dogs up the staircase to the little parkette. Squeezing past them all on the stairs is pretty much impossible and I always end up tangled in a leash, knocked into someone's front garden, or perched on the bumper of one of the cars parked next to the curb. 
Shue gives him another convivial wink. "Besides, Frederick is a pansy. Who wants to talk about him? You want to talk intimately about a Whiston scion, my friend, let's talk about Emma. Mercy. Did you get a chance to download the tabloid pics they nabbed of her in the shower? I mean, I know they were digitally touched and cheesy as all hell, but I would pay good money to know who the model behind the headshot was. " He laughs. "Man, I tell you, it's probably a good thing for her that the family has been shunted to the side. If she was anything but a frontier celebrity, she wouldn't be able to turn around without bumping into stalkers." 
It's better, Rodriguez thinks, that he disengage at this point. Anything else Jess Shue might have to say about Emma Whiston is not something he's going to pass along. 
And he says plenty. 
"So, of course, I'm like: 'Hello! What kind of silly-gilly do you take me for? Just because my father has given me his company cred to buy something decent to wear on my arrival home, and just because every person knows without a doubt what the Whiston cred signature looks like does not mean that I'm going to let them gouge the company and the Whistons like I'm some kind of freeloader. I was incensed, let me tell you. 
Mrs. Enderby paused outside her child’s door. 
“The light is out,” she said. “She will be asleep. I shall not disturb her. Good night, Miss Moran!” 
“Good night, Mrs. Enderby!” Lexy answered, and went into her own room. 
She gave Mrs. Enderby twenty minutes to get safely stowed away; then she went out quietly into the hall, to Caroline’s room. She knocked softly; there was no answer. She turned the handle and went in; the room was dark and very still. She switched on the light. 
It was as she had expected—the room was empty. Caroline was not there. 
Lexy’s first impulse was to close the door of that empty room, and to hold her tongue. It seemed to her that it would be treachery to Caroline to tell Mrs. Enderby. She and Caroline were both young, both of the same generation; they ought to stand loyally together against the tyrannical older people. 
“Because, golly, what a row there’d be if Mrs. Enderby ever knew she’d gone out!” Lexy thought. 
That was how she saw it, at first. Caroline had pretended to have a headache so that she would be left behind, and would get a chance to slip out alone. It was simply a lark. Lexy had known such things to happen often before, at boarding school; and the unthinkable and impossible thing was for one girl to tell on another. 
My chest felt tight, and I couldn’t get enough air. 
Dawna Polk wanted to talk to me. 
Raw terror began crackling around the edges of my thoughts. 
Calm down, I ordered myself. Think. Strategize. Dawna wasn’t here now, only her faceless black-clad people who surrounded me silently, armed with M4s in their hands and sidearms on their thighs, and their well-armed discipline was trivial. Eight people became nothing when I had mathematics on my side. But the sure knowledge that Tresting was in a similar windowless van surrounded by equally armed guerillas stayed me; Dawna had told me she would kill him if I didn’t cooperate, and I believed her. 
I needed a way out for both of us. 
But if I couldn’t find one, how long would it take Dawna to turn me inside out, to destroy everything I was and replace it with whatever personality she chose? How long before she scraped my brain free of any errant opinion, made me a parrot for Pithica’s goals? If her earlier influence was any indication, I wouldn’t even notice it happening. I would become a puppet who blithely continued to think herself a real human being. 
We? “I was trying to reach Arthur,” I said. “He didn’t pick up his cell.” Because he’s avoiding me. 
“Oh, yeah, he’s out right now taking care of something; he warned me he might be out of cell range. But he’s going to be sorry he missed you.” 
“Right,” I said, almost under my breath. 
“He will! He was just asking me if I’d heard from you. Everyone’s worried. Are you okay?” 
“They’re not worried; they’re mad at me,” I said. 
“What? No, they’re not!” 
“Why aren’t they picking up their phones, then?” 
“Okay, maybe a little, but—” 
A little? If that was true, it was only because they didn’t know what I’d done since last seeing them. 
“But—but that’s not why—well, I told you, Arthur’s out, and it’s probably just coincidence if you can’t reach Checker. Maybe he’s finally sleeping or something—I hope so. Come on, you know they’re not passive aggressive people; they’re not ignoring you!” 
I bit my lip. 
“Cas? Are you okay?” 
“Yeah.” 
“Sorry, but you don’t sound like it. Are you sure? Is something wrong?” 
“It’s the decent thing to do, Russell.” 
“ Decent?” I burst out. “Decent! She has a proof that could—” I clamped down on the words. 
“Revolutionize mankind, I know,” said Arthur. “What are you gonna do? Twist her arm until she shares it with you?” 
“You don’t get it!” I cried. “You say ‘revolutionize’ like you understand, but you aren’t getting this. This is—it’s bigger than splitting the atom, or the combustion engine, or—or the invention of electricity, or whatever other technological revolution you’re thinking of. You don’t understand what this proof would mean!” 
“Then maybe Martinez is right,” said Arthur, “keeping it to herself. Maybe that’s the right call here.” 
“That’s never the right call!” 
Checker pulled open the door to the Hole and came out. “Cas. Hey.” 
“You’re going along with this?” I cried. “You? Mr. ‘Knowing is Always Better Than Not Knowing?’ Did he tell you what we found?” 
“Cas—” 
“This is bigger than you, than me, than all of us!” I ignored the guilty twinge acknowledging that wasn’t the reason I wanted it, and stabbed a finger at Checker. “ You should understand that!” 
Tresting sucked a breath through clenched teeth. “Agreed. Soon...  he can, my vote is we walk in the front door.” 
“With guns,” I said. 
“Yeah,” said Tresting. “With guns.” 
Having seen enough of Checker’s data to give Tresting the benefit of the doubt on whether he was stark raving mad—not to mention feeling much more worried about this case and what I’d stumbled into—I elected to get a few hours’ sleep while we waited on Checker’s intel. 
“I think I’ll take a turn on your couch,” I told Tresting. I wanted to be here for any updates. 
“Sure thing,” said the PI. “I gotta make some calls anyway.” 
“How were my programs?” asked Checker as I stood up, a hint of challenge in his voice. “Fun reads? I strive for elegance.” 
I pretended he wasn’t provoking me. “Yeah, impressive. Markov chain Monte Carlo, smart way of doing it.” 
Both men stared. Checker’s jaw had dropped open slightly. “Cas Russell, your hotness level just went up by about thirty percent,” he said finally. 
Score one for Cas, I thought. “I read statistics papers in my spare time. Hey, Tresting, where’s your loo?” 
yes sir." 
Rodriguez nudges him with his knee. "But that isn't what really happened." 
"Boy gonna think I'm crazy." 
"What happened?" Ray says. 
Diggs looks away, stares at his feet, not moving except to piston his cigarette back and forth between lips and thigh, where he rests his arm. "You been in the Mes, Mr. Marlowe? You got that look about you. If not the Mes, you seen action. That's plain enough." 
Ray nods slowly. "Four years in and around Wadi Wadi." 
Nights sleeping with your chem gear in hand, your bio gear on the floor, your rifle propped against the table by your head. All night long you're taking mortars; they sound like rumbling thunder the way it used to roll down the mountainside in Georgia, north of Dalton, where I'm from. And you know they're aiming for the comm shack or the ammo dump or the motor pool, but we're always moving them around. And we don't know how good their intel is, but we do know how bad their aim is, and between the two, we know it's just a matter of time before they drop a shell right in the middle of the tent. That happened, too, an old Russian surplus mortar, must have been twenty, thirty years old. Came through the tent like a stone, with a ripping sound that scared the living bejesus out of me and Krueger and Shireman. Hit the floor with a whump and just sat there, 
"And their sons to be like Frederick," he groans. 
She stops sharply. Kilgore wrestles his eyelids open and looks at her, backlit in the soft glow of the room's lamps. Her eyes have gone distant, hard, thoughtful. 
"What?" he says, and rolls back and forth beneath her to prod her on. 
"No one wanted a son like Frederick." She takes the hint, settles back into her steady rhythm. 
"Freddy seems like a fuck up." 
"It isn't that. Frederick is..." Slows again, maddening, "...different. Not completely— not like a Whiston, I guess. There's something lesser about him. He's a shameful drunk, you know. Everyone knows that. And when he isn't drunk, he's cruel." 
Concentrate. God, the things he endures for the job! "How so? Like mean? Enjoys hurting people?" 
She shakes her head, now only marginally occupied with their sex. "Not mean. Mean isn't the word for it. You know, they whisper in the streets that he hurts Emma. Not just bruises and scratches, but hurts her. In terrible ways. And there's nothing she can do to stop him. Mother says that's probably why she ran off to Stratiskaya Daransk. To get away from him and the things he made her do. " 
It was boring. 
Hi Mom! 
I can't believe it! They gave Buddy life? Jeez! I'm going to talk to Rhindquist about this -- this is ridiculous! 
Today was Tuesday, so I was on the truck with Vasquez. I got to the garage nice and early, and my watch congratulated me. It kind-of bothered me. I guess I'm just getting used to working in my office, with the watch switched off. 
By the time we made our first stop, at HR 102, I was ready to throw my watch out the window! It had told me eight times how great I was: when I got to the garage; when I did my safety-check; when I stopped at three red lights; when I backed up to the document disposal dock; when I cleared security; and when I lifted the boxes with my legs instead of my back. To tell you the truth, it made me feel pretty stupid. I felt like I was a puppy, getting patted on the head. 
By lunch, my watch had given me 57 positive feedbacks. I mentioned it to Vasquez. 
He said, "I don't know what you're complaining about. It beats having it shout at you all the time. It just means you're doing all right. When I'm out with the new guy, this thing never shuts up. It just yammers on and on about how late we are, how many more pickups we have to do, what percent of our pickups we've been late for. I got so mad last week, I shouted at it: 'Don't tell me! Tell the retard who's driving!'" 
"Carly, do you know where Kevin came from? Really came from? Did you ever actually try to find out?" 
She sighed and took another sip. 
"I told you I don't care. When they brought him, all pink and helpless, I just—" 
"Who brought him?" I interrupted. 
"Well, I'd been up there the day before, signing all the papers. I was supposed to go up that day, but then somebody called and said one of the girls who was staying in the clinic or whatever it is was bringing him to me. So don't come." 
"You're saying one of the girls—?" 
"Yeah." She looked wistful for a moment, as though re­membering. "Then she just showed up, looked like some blond college dropout. I guess a little more fanfare would've been nice, but Marcy was there to help me and that was it. That's the last contact I ever had with Children of Light." She shuddered involuntarily. "Till now." 
Well, I thought, the last thing I'm going to do is tell her about what I just saw. She's the ideal customer for Alex God­dard: She truly doesn't want to know details. 
"Darryl is alive," I said. "Darryl is alive and being held prisoner on Treasure Island." 
He stuffed his fist in his mouth and made a horrible groaning sound. 
"We have a friend," my father said. "She writes for the Bay Guardian . An investigative reporter." 
That's where I knew the name from. The free weekly Guardian often lost its reporters to bigger daily papers and the Internet, but Barbara Stratford had been there forever. I had a dim memory of having dinner with her when I was a kid. 
"We're going there now," my mother said. "Will you come with us, Ron? Will you tell her Darryl's story?" 
He put his face in his hands and breathed deeply. Dad tried to put his hand on his shoulders, but Mr Glover shook it off violently. 
"I need to clean myself up," he said. "Give me a minute." 
Mr Glover came back downstairs a changed man. He'd shaved and gelled his hair back, and had put on a crisp military dress uniform with a row of campaign ribbons on the breast. He stopped at the foot of the stairs and kind of gestured at it. 
"When you say 'get', I'll assume you mean 'hand him over to the appropriate legal entity for the application of fair and impartial justice'." 
"Him, maybe. The potential 'them' is still up for grabs. I haven't had any training in how to handle custody and prosecution and everything that goes along with it. With my luck, I'd make some huge rights violation gaffe and end up getting them off on a technicality. So I'll just stick to what I do know how to handle properly." 
Becker makes a show of clapping his hands over his ears. "I'm not hearing you say that." 
Ray frowns, serious. "Is it always this hard? To catch them, I mean." 
It's a question that's been nagging him for days. He wonders if he's been missing something, if he's been too  focused on Emma and whatever it is between them and made the murder just a footnote in his personal history. How did we meet? Oh, I was under deep cover trying to interdict a ring of political insurgents and managed to get tied up in a murder investigation. I busted her brother, whacked his psycho political cronies. 
Rebecca was to go to and fro on the cars daily from September to Christmas, and then board in Wareham during the three coldest months. Emma Jane's parents had always thought that a year or two in the Edgewood high school (three miles from Riverboro) would serve every purpose for their daughter and send her into the world with as fine an intellectual polish as she could well sustain. Emma Jane had hitherto heartily concurred in this opinion, for if there was any one thing that she detested it was the learning of lessons. One book was as bad as another in her eyes, and she could have seen the libraries of the world sinking into ocean depths and have eaten her dinner cheerfully the while; but matters assumed a different complexion when she was sent to Edgewood and Rebecca to Wareham. She bore it for a week—seven endless days of absence from the beloved object, whom she could see only in the evenings when both were busy with their lessons. Sunday offered an opportunity to put the matter before her father, who proved obdurate. He didn't believe in education and thought she had full enough already. He never intended to keep up "blacksmithing" for good when he leased his farm and came into Riverboro, but proposed to go back to it presently, and by that time Emma Jane would have finished school and would be ready to help her mother with the dairy work. 
"Sam Simpson is a copycoat!" stormed Rebecca "I wouldn't have minded standing in the corner alone—that is, not so very much; but I couldn't bear standing with him." 
"I saw that you couldn't, and that's the reason I told you to take your seat, and left him in the corner. Remember that you are a stranger in the place, and they take more notice of what you do, so you must be careful. Now let's have our conjugations. Give me the verb 'to be,' potential mood, past perfect tense." 
"I might have been   "We might have been   Thou mightst have been   You might have been   He might have been   They might have been." 
"Give me an example, please." 
"'He' or 'she' might have been glad because they are masculine and feminine, but could 'it' have been glad?" asked Miss Dearborn, who was very fond of splitting hairs. 
"Why not?" asked Rebecca. 
"Because 'it' is neuter gender." 
"Couldn't we say, 'The kitten might have been glad if it had known it was not going to be drowned'?" 
"Ye—es," Miss Dearborn answered hesitatingly, never very sure of herself under Rebecca's fire; "but though we often speak of a baby, a chicken, or a kitten as 'it,' they are really masculine or feminine gender, not neuter." 
I almost laughed. “What are you talking about?” Half of Arthur’s problem was that he wasn’t willing to be violent enough, even in self-defense. 
“I was not referring to Mr. Tresting,” Dawna corrected gently. 
A sudden sick feeling condensed in my stomach, and for the briefest moment my grasp on my internal mathematics wavered. “He’s not my friend,” I said, ignoring the something in me that didn’t like to say it out loud. 
“Perhaps not,” said Dawna. “But you are his.” 
The sick feeling intensified. I said nothing. 
Dawna seemed to be waiting for something, gazing at me with her eyes slightly narrowed—I ensured my brain was still as occupied as possible with its mundane algorithmic litany, wondering what she sought, what she saw —but after a moment of silence she broke the tension and leaned back in her chair. “Ms. Russell, I would like it if you would trust me. I know it does not come easily to you, but perhaps I can help. I beg you, ask me anything. I swear I shall answer you honestly.” 
The words faded as he walked away, but the tone of his muttering sounded like an argument. “No way! I’m not going to risk my rep- utation. You can do this without me.” As he wandered back my way his words got clearer. “Exactly. All you got to do is meet with him, do your thing, boom. Get it? Boom.” He laughed, then sighed dramatically. “No, I’m not stoned. Look, I’ll call you.” 
I waited until I heard the front door open and close, then crawled out of the bushes and crunched my way to the back door, 
thinking about what to do. As important as it was to free my brother, I also wanted to be sure Simon’s reputation was ruined for good. I was worried the film I had made so far wasn’t damning enough, that people wouldn’t believe good old Simon was work- ing for the feds unless they saw him high-fiving an FBI agent as the bust went down. I stomped the snow off my boots and went into the kitchen. 
“What were you doing out there?” Tweak was standing at the refrigerator. 
“Somebody said there was more beer on the back porch, get- ting cold,” I improvised. “There wasn’t.” 
"What under the canopy did they want of a lamp, and where did they get the money to pay for it? If Abner was at home, I should think he'd been swappin' again," said Miss Miranda. 
"The children got it as a prize for selling soap," replied Rebecca; "they've been working for a year, and you know I told you that Emma Jane and I helped them the Saturday afternoon you were in Portland." 
"I didn't take notice, I s'pose, for it's the first time I ever heard the lamp mentioned. Well, you can go for an hour, and no more. Remember it's as dark at six as it is at midnight Would you like to take along some Baldwin apples? What have you got in the pocket of that new dress that makes it sag down so?" 
"It's my nuts and raisins from dinner," replied Rebecca, who never succeeded in keeping the most innocent action a secret from her aunt Miranda; "they're just what you gave me on my plate." 
"Why didn't you eat them?" 
"Because I'd had enough dinner, and I thought if I saved these, it would make the Simpsons' party better," stammered Rebecca, who hated to be scolded and examined before company. 
Ray shows them his card, gives them a stupid grin like the one he's wearing in the photo. The Marines aren't amused. 
The one who had demanded his credentials, Kilgore, nods, satisfied. The rifles are retracted to their upright rest position. "Chief Becker said you should report to him before poking around." 
"So," Ray says quietly. "What's going on?" 
When he wants the security spin, he'll talk to Becker. What he wants right now is the truth, the ground level assessment, the bareboned and clinical report one Marine gives to another. And since he's already cover-wrecked with security, he might as well exploit his assets. 
"Couldn't say, sir." 
"Don't call me 'sir', Marine." 
The man's eyes narrow, recalculating what he thought he knew— the accuracy of what he had been told. It's an old joke, basic training barracks humor after the first grunt gets nailed with pushing fifty or taking a five mile double-time nature hike for answering the NCO with 'sir' tacked onto the end. Marines find this stuff endlessly amusing-probably only Marines. The guy lets his eyes roam Ray up and down, from rat to id to hardware geek coveralls. 
Another issue was makeup. At first Paula insisted she didn't want any. Never wore it, it was deceitful, and she didn't want to appear on camera looking like Barbie. (Small chance of that, I thought. A little war paint now and then might help your chances of landing a father for this child.) Eventually Arlene persuaded her that cameras lie and the only way to look like yourself is to enhance those qualities that make you you. It was a thin argument, but Arlene came from a long line of apparel proprietors who could unload sunlamps in the Sahara. 
Paula's adopted daughter Rachel, who was a year and a half old, was running around the apartment, blond tresses flowing, dragging a doll she had named Angie. Except the name came out "Ann-gee." She was immediately adopted by the crew, and Erica, the production manager, was soon teaching her how to play patty-cake. Then Rachel wanted to demonstrate her new skills at eating spaghetti. In five min­utes she was covered head to toe in Ragu tomato sauce. 
When I got upstairs I checked the apartment thoroughly. I should have left some kind of sign that would let me know if somebody had been in my stuff - a thread stuck in the door that would fall to the ground if it was opened, for instance. I was used to my online life being subject to surveillance, but not my bed- room. Not the kitchen or bathroom. I don’t know why that would make any difference, really. More of my life is lived online than not. But it did. 
Nothing seemed out of place. Nothing seemed disturbed - except me. I couldn’t shake off the creepy-crawly feeling that somebody was watching me, was in some weird way touching me. 
That somebody had been in our apartment, going through our clothes, fanning our books to see if anything fell out, browsing through the big fat stack of paper about Monica’s school loans, 
thinking “why would you borrow that much money for a useless history degree?” Holding up the underwear that had holes in it. 
Opening our refrigerator door and seeing that fuzzy thing that used to be a radish stuck to the bottom of the vegetable bin. It felt invasive. It felt dirty. 
That somebody had been in our apartment, going through our clothes, fanning our books to see if anything fell out, browsing through the big fat stack of paper about Monica’s school loans, 
thinking “why would you borrow that much money for a useless history degree?” Holding up the underwear that had holes in it. 
Opening our refrigerator door and seeing that fuzzy thing that used to be a radish stuck to the bottom of the vegetable bin. It felt invasive. It felt dirty. 
And so far as I could tell, it hadn’t even happened. Yet. 
“What are you doing?” Monica asked. 
“Cleaning the refrigerator.” 
“It’s one in the morning.” 
“Yeah, but it’s gross. I cleaned the bathroom, too.” 
“Are you feeling all right?” She dumped her bag on a chair and unwrapped her scarf. “I thought you’d be in bed.” 
“I thought maybe you were.” I waggled my eyebrows like Groucho Marx, but she looked hurt. “Just kidding. I’m glad you were having fun.” 
“I shouldn’t have stayed out so late. It’s not every day that you get woken up by cops who want to question your niece about a terrorism case.” 
It's too late." 
Diggs pokes his finger at Ray. "I saw you last night, 'cept you wasn't alone. You had this here rat with you. He followed you like a little dog. "  "And how was that?" Ray asks. He'd made a point of avoiding the main lift. 
"I told you, man. I hump the deck. Just because there's a little excitement amidships don't mean that I start hugging the desk. I found that boy, Mr. Marlowe. You seen him. That wasn't no accident, and I didn't need Chief Becker coming down here with lights and cops and all that screaming to tell me so. I figured there was a chance the sicko that did this was still out there, hiding somewhere, waiting for things to chill before he made his way up. Didn't find nothing, though. No blood or anything to follow. I guess he must have done it somewhere else and just hauled the boy down here." 
"That was my conclusion, too," Ray says. "Now here's what I'm thinking happened: whoever dumped the body-probably the same person who actually committed the murder-did enough scouting in advance to know that you're the type of deck security who stays mobile. He knew he didn't have to find a way to drag that body down one of the stairways, that he stood a reasonable chance of not being detected if he just took the lift." 
You have to publish a cipher to know that it works. You have to tell as many people as possible how it works, so that they can thwack on it with everything they have, testing its security. The longer you go without anyone finding a flaw, the more secure you are. 
Which is how it stands today. If you want to be safe, you don't use crypto that some genius thought of last week. You use the stuff that people have been using for as long as possible without anyone figuring out how to break them. Whether you're a bank, a terrorist, a government or a teenager, you use the same ciphers. 
If you tried to use your own cipher, there'd be the chance that someone out there had found a flaw you missed and was doing a Turing on your butt, deciphering all your "secret" messages and chuckling at your dumb gossip, financial transactions and military secrets. 
So I knew that crypto would keep me safe from eavesdroppers, but I wasn't ready to deal with histograms. 
I got off the BART and waved my card over the turnstile as I headed up to the 24th Street station. As usual, there were lots of weirdos hanging out in the station, drunks and Jesus freaks and intense Mexican men staring at the ground and a few gang kids. I looked straight past them as I hit the stairs and jogged up to the surface. My bag was empty now, no longer bulging with the ParanoidXbox discs I'd been distributing, and it made my shoulders feel light and put a spring in my step as I came up the street. The preachers were at work still,...  about Jesus and so on. 
“Going to set here a while?” she asked, looking at the two young people with a smile of approval. “I’ll bring in some more wood.” She hesitated a moment, and the landladyish glimmer again appeared in her eyes. “If it was me,” she observed, in the most casual way, “the fire’d be enough light. If it was me, now, I wouldn’t want that gas flaring and blaring away—and burning up good money,” she added, to herself. 
“You’re right,” Lexy cheerfully agreed. “We’ll turn it down.” 
The rain was falling fast outside, driving against the windows when the wind blew; and inside the young people sat by the fire, very content. 
“Queer thing!” said Captain Grey meditatively. “Never been in this place before—never been in this country before—and yet it’s like coming home!” 
“I know that feeling,” said Lexy. “I’ve had it before. I think only people who haven’t any real homes of their own ever have it.” 
“But haven’t you any real home?” he asked, evidently distressed. 
“No,” she answered; “but please don’t think it’s tragic. It’s not.” 
And they wouldn’t be able to. At least not for a good while. We’d made sure of that. 
I still wasn’t sure whether we should be proud of what we’d done or not. I tried not to think about it too hard, and to remind myself every so often of what Pithica had done to people like Reginald and Leena Kingsley. And to Courtney Polk, the client I hadn’t been able to rescue in the end. 
I also tried to remind myself of how much I liked winning. I’m not going to lie; that helped. 
We didn’t manage to contact Checker for several days, since Arthur refused to let me steal a working satellite phone from the aid workers rebuilding the infrastructure. It turned out that Dawna, never having met Checker, had completely misjudged what he would do and probably never would have found him anyway. After Rio had dropped him off at his car, Checker had driven non-stop; as soon as he had hit a town where the lights were still on, he had gone, not to break into an electronics store in the middle of the night, but instead to a well-groomed residential neighborhood...where he had knocked on a reasonably pleasant-looking door, asked if they knew what was happening in Southern California, and told them that he needed emergency access to a computer with a network connection. 
"No," answered Rebecca, shaking her head decidedly; "I wanted to use ribbons, because all the other girls did, and they looked so pretty, but I used to tie my essays with twine strings on purpose; and the one on solitude I fastened with an old shoelacing just to show it what I thought of it!" 
"Solitude!" laughed Miss Maxwell, raising her eyebrows. "Did you choose your own subject?" 
"No; Miss Dearborn thought we were not old enough to find good ones." 
"What were some of the others?" 
"Fireside Reveries, Grant as a Soldier, Reflections on the Life of P. T. Barnum, Buried Cities; I can't remember any more now. They were all bad, and I can't bear to show them; I can write poetry easier and better, Miss Maxwell." 
"Poetry!" she exclaimed. "Did Miss Dearborn require you to do it?" 
"Oh, no; I always did it even at the farm. Shall I bring all I have? It isn't much." 
Rebecca took the blank-book in which she kept copies of her effusions and left it at Miss Maxwell's door, hoping that she might be asked in and thus obtain a private interview; but a servant answered her ring, and she could only walk away, disappointed. 
<ferret> How' s it going? 
<wrathof cohen> Next checkup on Wed. Nervous. 
<callmecheese> And Shad. Her brother was one of the nine. 
<wrathof cohen> Wow, really? I'm so out of touch. Where was Shad in the film? 
<Gargle> All over it. The reverse sting was her idea. 
<wrathof cohen> Wait, Shad's the girl? The one who made it all happen? :: reels:: <ferret> Shad, what's the latest on your brother? 
<ferret> Pinging Shad. 
<Falstaff> she brb-d. 
<DoDec> He took a plea for time served. A lot less time than the informant who got them all in trouble, which seems right. 
<Shad> I'm back. Was helping someone with her CS homework. Say hi to my friend Wheeze. 
<ferret> welcome Wheeze. 
<Gargle> welcome, f riend-of-Shad . 
<Wheeze> Nice to be here. 
<wrathof cohen> You mean the one who called himself Zip? Yeah, the film said he had out- standing warrants in three states. 
<DoDec> They competed to see who would get to lock him up first. Michigan won. 
<Falstaff> The FBI goon who cooked it all up got promoted, though. HULK SMASH <ferret> Are you tutoring, Shad? 
I didn’t know what to say to that, but something inside my chest eased. Not much, but a little. 
“Got things squared with the Feds, by the way,” Arthur continued. “The credit’s Sonya’s, to be honest. She kept her cool and held her ground, and I think they still want her cooperating enough that they’ll smooth anything over, long as we didn’t hurt any good guys. She told them they had to leave you be, no two ways about it, and your friend Agent Jones said okay, she’d make it all go away.” 
Halliday had protected me. Despite me going after her friend. I wondered if she knew everything, knew what I’d done. 
Maybe she was trying for forgiveness, like Arthur. He did have that effect on people. 
Or maybe she’d only defended me because she still wanted me to come work with her, help give advancements to her precious field. She didn’t know it was impossible. She didn’t know I was...damaged. 
Forever, now. 
“Martinez,” I said in a low voice. “Is there any chance she’ll come out of it?” 
He hesitated. “They ain’t hopeful.” He took a breath. “Russell, they say she...they say one of the symptoms is hallucinations. Personality changes. They say she might’ve been thinking things that ain’t real.” 
“They’d just come after us and steal it back,” I pointed out. And I was pretty sure they’d win. It wasn’t a good feeling, knowing someone else could beat me. 
“What’s the plan, then?” 
“Wait a sec, I’m putting you on speaker.” I hit a button and put the phone on the table so I could talk to Rio and Arthur and him all at once. “The advantage on our side is that they’re drawing from thousands and thousands of accounts,” I said, feeling my way through the logic as I spoke. “So if we cut them off everywhere at once, they won’t be able to recover fast. They’d have to rebuild their whole infrastructure.” 
“Double-edged,” said Rio. “Such diversification also means we cannot take out their resources simultaneously. Too many targets.” 
“I don’t know. I think we can,” I said. 
“How? Bring the Feds in?” Arthur rubbed a palm against his chin as if he couldn’t believe he was entertaining the possibility the flash drive might contain viable information. “Could work. Feds are slick at taking down money laundering operations. You give ’em the evidence, they could bring ’em down.” 
Then I looked down the form. What I wanted was the address she'd put down as a destination in Guatemala. 
The answer: "Ninos del Mundo, Peten Department." 
My hopes sank. Great. That was like saying your address is Children of the World, lost somewhere in the state of Mon­tana. 
The home address was equally vague. Just "New York." So much for the high level of curiosity at "Inmigracion." 
However, the carbon copy of the landing card, which you're supposed to surrender when you leave, was not sta­pled to it, the way it was on all the others in the box. Natu­rally, since she'd left in a medevac plane, half dead. 
"What does this mean?" I got up and walked over to the woman's desk, carrying the card. Mainly I just wanted to get a rise out of her. "The carbon copy is missing. Does that mean she could still be here?" 
Red alert. She glanced at the arrival date a moment and her eyes froze. Then, doubtless with visions of another CIA scandal looming in her consciousness, she brusquely an­nounced that the office was getting ready to close for the day. 
before they absolutely throw us out. I mean, I'd never be able to show my face here again, would I?" 
And so they walk out, arm in arm, and she chatters all the way around the concourse. Kilgore plots an escape that won't damage his cover, but keeps running headlong into the critical absence of chloroform in his arsenal to carry off anything convincing. 
They walk all the way to the opposite side of the ship, to the compartments wedged against the outer hull in a sleepy sort of cul-de-sac. She punches her security key into the door lock and drags him inside. 
Her room is a standard single, somewhere between modest and upscale, with a living area large enough for a couch, an end table and a vid screen; an abbreviated galley area like the one in Kilgore's room, though he assumes this one works as advertised. He makes sure she gets inside safely, goes so far as to peek into the public area to make sure they haven't accidentally smuggled in a murderer or rapist under cover of her verbal fusillade, then turns to go. Except the door has closed behind him and the kako-daimon responding to the motion sensor cue just gives him a sort of apologetic, doomed shake of the head. 
A small lightbulb blinked in Sean's mind. "Is Ethan very high-functioning?" he asked, carefully. 
Adele glanced sidelong at him and said, "The doctor says no. But I think he is. He's always walking around when I'm there, doing push-ups and sit-ups. He's not a young man, Ethan -- sixty this year! When his father was that age, he didn't do any push-ups, no sir! But the doctor, he says that Ethan's at zero function. Doctors! What do they know?" 
Adele brightened. "You should really try to at least visit Universal for an afternoon, you know. It's lovely." 
"They're going to move my grandfather to the zero-function ward, I think. If he doesn't spend more time switched on, they will," Sean said. "I want to get his story before they do it." And if not his stories, the reasons -- reasons for who Sean was, who his father was. 
"What a nice grandson you are! You know, it seems like no one cares about their grandparents anymore. Old Ross's grandchildren haven't visited once in the five years I've been here." 
“Dawna Polk’s that important, huh?” 
“The people with her skills are the core of Pithica. They are rare and precious to the organization. It is their greatest resource weakness.” 
I mulled over that tidbit of information. In hindsight, this meant I might not have needed Rio’s help at all. I could have taken Dawna a hostage in her library without blinking. Heck, I could have taken her hostage back at the town where they had first captured us. Why hadn’t I at least tried? All I could remember thinking was that they had Arthur and therefore I had no other options... 
“I could have gotten us out,” I blurted. 
“No,” said Rio. 
“I could have. I had plenty of opportunities around Dawna—” 
“Do not fault yourself, Cas. She can make herself safe from anybody.” 
Oh. Right. I never would have considered attacking Dawna as an option because she had made sure I didn’t think of it. I wondered if I’d had other escape options, too. It was hard to think back; I’d been so certain at the time. 
Rio pulled up the chair that Arthur usually occupied. “You said before that she talked to you. Will you tell me what about?” 
It would have been some comfort to the bruised, unhappy little spirit to know that Miranda Sawyer was passing an uncomfortable night, and that she tacitly regretted her harshness, partly because Jane had taken such a lofty and virtuous position in the matter. She could not endure Jane's disapproval, although she would never have confessed to such a weakness. 
As uncle Jerry drove homeward under the stars, well content with his attempts at keeping the peace, he thought wistfully of the touch of Rebecca's head on his knee, and the rain of her tears on his hand; of the sweet reasonableness of her mind when she had the matter put rightly before her; of her quick decision when she had once seen the path of duty; of the touching hunger for love and understanding that were so characteristic in her. "Lord A'mighty!" he ejaculated under his breath, "Lord A'mighty! to hector and abuse a child like that one! 'T ain't ABUSE exactly, I know, or 't wouldn't be to some o' your elephant-hided young ones; but to that little tender will-o'-the-wisp a hard word 's like a lash. Mirandy Sawyer would be a heap better woman if she had a little gravestun to remember, same's mother 'n' I have." 
“Too soon,” Tyler said. “Too easy to discredit. Besides, the underdog POV is a more compelling story.” 
“Oh, right. Your specialty is PR, lying for dollars, I forgot.” 
“And you’re in it for the lulz. Why don’t you go play with your little friends on 4Chan?” 
“Yeah? Why don’t you — “People,” Ian interrupted, which reminded me how ferret was the one who stepped in when members of the Group started to fight. “Let’s get the infrastructure in place. Zeke, your offshore idea is smart. Geoff, you want to pull together some info on related cases?” 
“Sure.” 
“Then, for the counter narrative . . .” There was a pause while everyone seemed to stall out at the next step. A weird idea started to form in my head. 
“What would be cool,” I said in the silence, and realized it felt good to have the guys all turn to me, as if I actually knew what I was talking about. Also scary, because I hadn’t figured my idea out yet and it might turn out to be stupid. “What if we could lure someone from Terhune’s team into a situation where they set up another fake terrorist threat like they did with Wilson? But we secretly recorded the whole process so we can show the world exactly how they operate.” 
The other two stared at him in silence for a moment. 
“You think he’s—” Houseman began. 
“I don’t know whether he has actually murdered her or not,” said Captain Grey, “but he has destroyed her—utterly wasted and ruined her life. He taught her to take that damned drug; and when Miss Moran broke the bottle—” 
“Oh! Did he tell you?” 
“He did. He says you’ve killed her. There was some rare drug in it that he can’t get for a fortnight or so, and she can’t live without it.” 
“Captain Grey!” she cried, white to the lips. “I didn’t—” 
“I know,” he said gently. “You meant to help, and I’m glad you did it. She’s better dead. This afternoon, for a little while, she was—herself. She talked to me. She was very weak, but she was herself. She asked me to help her not to take it again. She thought she was getting better. Then that”—he paused—“that damned brute brought in a lawyer, so that she could make her will. She couldn’t believe it. She looked up at me. ‘Oh, I’m not going to die , am I?’ she said. Before I could answer her, he told her she must be prepared. Then I—” 
"You can still just make it out." I twisted and kept pointing. I was biting my lip, trying to hold together. "There . . . it looks like some kind of clearing. Maybe . . . I don't know, but what if we just set down there and let this storm blow over?" 
He ordered Villatoro to bank and go back for a look. A few moments later it was obvious there was an opening in the trees. 
"Yeah, let's check it out." He then said something to Vil­latoro and we started easing toward it, definitely a wide open­ing. The billowing ocean of trees below us seemed to be parting like the Red Sea as we settled in. There had to be solid ground down there somewhere. Had to be. 
"What's . . ." I was pointing. "There, over to the side, it's a kind of hill or something. It's—" 
I was staring out, growing ever more puzzled. A "hill" was there, all right. The problem was, it was definitely man-made, topped by a stone building. I could just make it out in the glare of the lights. 
"What do you think that is?" 
Now, though, I was staring at the ghostly rise of the pyra­mid emerging out of the rain. 
“I’d better take a walk!” thought Lexy, springing up. 
Before she reached the door there was a knock, and Mrs. Royce put her head in. 
“He’s here!” she whispered. “He’s asking for you.” 
“Who?” cried Lexy. 
“Hush! The doctor!” answered Mrs. Royce. “You could ’a’ knocked me down with a feather!” 
Feathers would not have knocked down the sturdy Lexy, however. On the contrary, she was pleased and interested by this utterly unexpected visit. The sinister doctor here, in this house, and asking for her! She started promptly toward the stairs. 
“Miss Moran!” cautioned the landlady, in a whisper. “Don’t tell him nothing!” 
“Tell him!” said Lexy. “But I haven’t anything to tell!” 
“Well, you’d best be very careful!” said Mrs. Royce. 
With this solemn warning in her ears, Lexy descended the stairs. She saw Dr. Quelton standing in the hall, hat in hand, waiting for her. The doctor was rather a disappointment. He was not the dark, sinister figure he should have been. He was a big man, powerfully built, with a clumsy stoop to his tremendous shoulders. His heavy, clean-shaven face would have been an agreeable one if it had not been for its expression, but that expression was not at all an alarming or dangerous one. It was an expression of the most utter and hopeless boredom. 
I stopped, frustrated. Why on earth was she going into a concert? Because you told her ten p.m., and she allowed too much margin for error and doesn’t want to sit in the open on a bench for an hour and a half. 
Great. 
I could find a way to break in, but the path of least resistance would be faster. Fortunately, I always kept a large amount of cash on my person. I marched up to the window. “I need a ticket for tonight.” 
The little old man behind the window paused in the act of closing up. “We still do have some mezzanine seats. I can sell you one, but...” His eyes glanced up and down at my cargo pants and combat boots, and I wondered if he was about to quote a dress code at me. I tried to remember the last time I’d showered, and couldn’t. “But the performance has already started,” he continued. “You’ll have to wait for an usher to seat you.” 
“That’s all right,” I said, shoving money at him. 
An honest entrant for once, I pushed through the door and into the concert hall. Martinez was nowhere in sight—she must’ve been seated already. 
“I don’t want to hurt any one,” she declared stiffly. “I just want to help your daughter.” 
“Proceed, then!” said Mrs. Enderby. 
Lexy rose. 
“Then I’ll say good-by, Mrs. Enderby,” she said. “My trunk’s packed. I’ll send for it this afternoon.” 
“And where are you going in such a hurry?” 
“I’m going to Wyngate,” said Lexy. 
“Ah!” said Mrs. Enderby. “It is a pretty place, is it not?” 
“I don’t know. I’ve never seen it.” 
“Pardon me—you saw it yesterday. It is a small village through which we passed on the way to Miss Craigie’s house.” 
“I didn’t know that.” 
“Now that you do know, perhaps you will spare yourself the trouble of going there,” said Mrs. Enderby. “I assure you you will not find Caroline there. I myself made certain inquiries. No such person has arrived in Wyngate.” 
There was a moment’s silence. 
“But I observe by your face that you are not convinced,” Mrs. Enderby went on. “‘This Mrs. Enderby, she is a stupid old creature,’ you think to yourself. ‘I shall go there myself, and I shall discover that which she could not.’” 
"Do what you want, but the children are expecting you. " 
Children?  Emma cowers for a moment, but her brother, having delivered his message, is apparently done. Still listing, he stalks past her and out onto the concourse. In seconds, he's disappeared from view. Back to whatever pit it was that spawned him, Ray thinks. 
He presses his hand toward Emma, open palmed. "Are you okay?" 
She's shaking, hugging her shoulders as if to keep from sobbing. "I should go." 
"What did he mean about the children?" 
But she shakes her head. "Thank you for breakfast, Ray. I had a good time." 
"Emma-" 
Does he hit you ? This is what he means to ask, what he should be asking, but even the bare thought of it makes him feel violent. But in the space between words, she slips close to him. Her small hands pull his face to hers and she kisses his lips, cool and dry and hungry. 
Without another word, she's gone. 
The rest of his day is spent the way most of days pass on Paraclete. Ziggy rides him for duty failures that may or may not be legitimate or even vaguely associated with his own personal fault, then tells him Nina has packed along some lasagna from last night's dinner that he can have as long as he promises to remember to get the dish back to her. He makes two retrievals of malfunctioning drones. He performs some perfunctory upgrades to the drone system control frame. Around this, he codes new search parameters into the drones' surveillance routines, uploads a dozen petaflops of gathered surveillance data for pattern searches and anomalous chemical traces from the rat network's latest security sweep, trying to skew all his available resources in a clever and anonymous enough way that the other systems vets won't notice that he's been tinkering with the rats, and on the chance that they do notice, won't suspect it's anything but a buggy command sequence and definitely won't trace it back to him. 
I took it, the cover so waterlogged its color was almost gone. However, it must have been kept dry in the plastic bag for at least some of its trip from wherever, since much of the damage seemed recent. 
Lou shook his head staring wistfully at me. "I still don't know how she got down there. She was in California. Re­member that postcard? If she'd come back East, she'd have got in touch. Wouldn't she?" His eyes pleaded for my agree­ment. 
I didn't know what to say, so I just shrugged. I wanted to be sympathetic, but I refused to lie outright. He took my ambivalence as assent as he pulled out the locket containing her picture, his talisman. He fingered it for a moment, staring into space, and then he looked down and opened it, as if seeing her high school picture, from a time when she was well, would somehow ease his mind. 
"This whole thing doesn't sound like her," he went on. "Know what I think? She was being held down there against her will." 
My heart went out to him, and I reached over and took the locket for a moment, feeling the strong "SRC" engraved on its heart-shaped face. "Lou, she's going to come out of it. And when she does, she'll probably explain everything. She's going to be okay any day now, I've got a hunch. A gut feeling." 
"Reinforcements are Becker's call." 
A quick search of a neighboring footlocker turns up a load harness with a shoulder holster. Ray stuffs his pistol in, straps on the harness and begins filling the extra slots with ammo clips for the subby. 
Kilgore watches him with a wary expression. "If it's Becker's call, why are you getting ready for freaking Ragnarok?" 
Ray looks at him, sets his jaw. "Because I don't know what's going on. Becker can figure it out if he wants to, 
decide what measures need to be taken. That's his job, to protect the ship. My job is to locate whoever or whatever it is that raised the ruckus back at the checkpoint and kill it. Clear enough?" 
The two Marines nod, clearly unhappy. 
Ray forges ahead. "Where's Diggs?" 
Rodriguez waves past the rows of stacked matter cannon shells. Over the top, Ray can see the massive bulbous protrusion of the weapon housing. "He ran into the fire control chamber." 
"Watch the door. Wait for Becker. I'll be back in a minute." 
He charges past the maze of storage units where the shells hang in nanomesh nets. Left and right, at the terminus of the long rows, there are bays stacked with shipping crates full of small arms ammunition, rifles, 
Martinez plopped herself down in a chair across from me, and the goons chained her in, just as they had done to me. She managed to sit in the manacles primly, somehow, as if she were about to take tea and cakes. 
My muscles were responding now, a little bit, though twitching my fingers still felt like I was pushing through glue. 
The clack, clack, clack approached my shoulder, and I felt the Lancer lean on the chair behind me. “Last chance,” he said. “You really don’t want us to touch her?” 
I knew what was coming. I could take it, I hoped. As long as it bought us time. 
Arthur will be coming. He will. 
“You give her a heart attack, you’ll never get your proof.” My tongue was still thick and languid in my mouth, but the words had enough shape to make sense. 
“Can I tell you a secret?” He leaned close, his breath hot on my ear. “I doubt you’ll be a very good incentive. But I don’t really care.” He pushed off and walked away. 
Yeah. I’d pissed him off. Big time. 
And it wasn’t going to work out so well for me. 
Afterward, I went back to my room and scrolled through the messages Wheeze had been sending. I was always happy to see a new one, even if I couldn’t seem to make my fingers send a reply. 
<wheeze> My ankle is feeling better. So is the sick chicken. I have recorded so many chap- ters of Charles Dickens my voice is completely gone. How are you? 
<wheeze> it was so cold this morning there were sundogs . Did you see them? I hope you're okay . 
<wheeze> There's a picture of Simon Meyer all over the internet. Whoever did that was incredibly brave . 
<wheeze> I just watched all of Sarah's blitzdocs again. They're amazing. That one where you all got arrested had me on the edge of my seat, even though I knew it would turn out all right. Thanks for trying to take the heat off me. 
<wheeze> Jane...  took a while to get the hang of it. 
How are things? Are you still living with your aunt? Did you guys get a lot of snow? We got buried. You can't even see the fence posts it's so deep. 
<wheeze> What I would really like to do is write you an old-fashioned letter by hand. I would tell you about the farm and what...  while they' re still warm and how getting to know the goats is turning me... , though Jane says that won't last. It feels weird to type things this way. I don't know if you get these messages. It's like writing with disappearing ink. I miss hanging out with you. 
He felt so impotent just then that he nearly did it anyway. What did it matter? He couldn’t control his daughter, his wife was working to destroy the social fabric of UNATS, and he was rendered useless because the goddamned robots—mechanical coppers that he absolutely loathed—were all broken. 
He walked carefully around the shop, looking for signs of his daughter. Had she been here? How were the “kids” getting in? Did they have a key? A back entrance? Back through the employees-only door at the back of the shop, into a stockroom, and back again, past a toilet, and there, a loading door opening onto a service corridor. He prodded it with the truncheon-tip and it swung open. 
He got two steps into the corridor before he spotted Ada’s phone with its distinctive collection of little plastic toys hanging off the wrist-strap, on the corridor’s sticky floor. He picked it up with his gloved hand and prodded it to life. It was out of range here in the service corridor, and the last-dialed number was familiar from his morning’s pen-trace. He ran a hundred steps down the corridor in each direction, sweating freely, but there was no sign of her. 
“Sure.” 
“Then, for the counter narrative . . .” There was a pause while everyone seemed to stall out at the next step. A weird idea started to form in my head. 
“What would be cool,” I said in the silence, and realized it felt good to have the guys all turn to me, as if I actually knew what I was talking about. Also scary, because I hadn’t figured my idea out yet and it might turn out to be stupid. “What if we could lure someone from Terhune’s team into a situation where they set up another fake terrorist threat like they did with Wilson? But we secretly recorded the whole process so we can show the world exactly how they operate.” 
“Turn the tables and surveille them,” Zeke said, saluting me with his beer bottle. “Sweet.” 
Tyler was nodding. “A documentary approach. Which makes me think . . .” 
“Sarah?” Geoff murmured. 
“She’d totally love this. I’ll ping her and see if she’d be inter- ested.” 
“Who’s Sarah?” I asked. 
“The filmmaker? She makes those political documentaries and releases them in serial form? Basically invented blitzdocs. If we could get fi lm of an FBI informant orchestrating one of these man- ufactured terrorist threats, she could turn it into something amaz- ing. And she has a ton of followers. It would go viral in no time.” 
There are several confusing minutes which follow, in which she probably says several very illuminating and self -revelatory things he doesn't catch very clearly because she's on the couch and his head is wedged between her thighs. After that, she doesn't say anything for ten or fifteen complete minutes while she undresses him and displays more than a vigorous expertise in other oral skill areas. 
But by the time he carries her back to the bedroom and tumbles with her into bed, she's used up her daily allotment of silence. 
She tells him about her gymnastic training, then demonstrates. 
She rattles on about her vocal training, and impresses him with a few high notes, though they're mostly muffled by the pillow. 
There's a bit later on about her adolescent horrors with the size and shape of her ass, but he doesn't really want to go there.  Finally, he's exhausted, insensate, scrubbed raw from his knees to his nipples and relegated to the bottom. 
She's burned most of her energy away and is content to rock gently back and forth on top of him, eyes closed, 
but she came out just as I turned on the faucet. I could tell she was smiling at me in the mirror. “I love your hair.” I glared up at her reflection and her smile disappeared. “What?” 
“Usually when people say crap like that, they don’t mean it.” 
“Well, I guess I’m stupid, then, because I didn’t know that. I really did mean it.” 
I scrubbed my hands and shook them out, then ripped some paper from the dispenser, a lot of paper just to see if she’d give me grief over being environmentally insensitive. 
“Look, it’s not my fault if Nikko is a dumbshit and doesn’t know how you feel,” she said. 
“What are you talking about? We’re just friends.” 
She gave herself a wry smile in the mirror. Yeah, right. Just friends. But she changed the subject. “Putting stuff in your shoe, 
did you get that from Little Brother ? I love that book. I keep mean- ing to install Paranoid Linux on my laptop.” 
“It doesn’t exist.” 
“You’re kidding. Doctorow made it up?” 
“Well, it was in development for a while, but it never went any- where. Do you use Linux?” 
"What do you see?" 
A bunch of dead guys. 
"I just climbed off the ladder. It seems to be cognate to the ladder position on Omicron." First things first, he thinks. "You'd better direct me to the reactor control room to start. We'll want to confirm that they're still operating and warn them about trouble. How close are your guys?" 
"They're on the way. Two or three minutes at most, but the lifts are jammed with passengers shuttling between parties." 
Good for them. 
Kilgore grunts. "You might tell them to hurry, Chief, or they won't have anyone left to rescue."  "What?" It's as close to screaming as Becker is likely to get. 
Ray glares at Kilgore, makes a slicing motion across his neck. Cut it out. "We've got a few casualties," he says carefully. "Give me some direction to Reactor Control." 
A few maddening moments pass, and Ray imagines Becker sifting through the graphical schematics on the checkpoint's terminal. "Turn right down the main corridor off the ladder. Take the first gangway on your left and go about halfway down. That entire gangway is lead shielded and the walls are about two meters thick, so all the doors on your left should be deeply recessed. It's Section 44, but you should know it when you see it. 
He's been all over this data, and there's nothing here. Or maybe there is something here, and he's just not seeing it because he's a hardware guy, he's a techie. He is anything but a forensic scientist who knows what nuances are likely to be missed. And he's precluded by case sensitivity from enlisting an actual forensic scientist because if he missed something, and that something happens to be easy for the trained eye to spot (as well as perfectly understandable given the proximity of Frederick Whiston's DNA to the victim's DNA), then the forensic scientist in question is going to get the hit Ray is missing. And when the match comes up as Frederick's or Emma's or anyone else's associated with the Whiston household, it will only be a matter of hours before everyone knows that the EED is investigating the Whistons in the first place. The tabloids don't care that it is just as vital in any investigation to rule suspects out as it is to rule them in-only that celebrities are mentioned in conjunction with the investigation in the first place. 
“The spy-eyes I planted so our enemies can spy on us, the wealth you have around here. How many of our people died because you sold them out?” 
“Valentine, you are a smart girl and your mother is a soldier, but you aren’t so very smart as all that. You are a stupid girl sometimes. Our little palace here isn’t full of spies. We’re documentarians . We shoot the war and we send it to the outside world so they can see the tragedy they are wreaking here. We have a huge activist movement that we fuel through our pictures. The spy-eyes you planted yesterday are now streaming 24/7 to activist sites in fifty countries. It is being played in the halls of the United Nations.” 
Eva made a spitting sound. “It’s being played as filler on the snowy slopes of upper cable. It’s being played as ironic snuff-porn in dorm rooms. It’s being used as stock footage for avant-garde performance art. Please, wizard, please. She deserves to know the real situation, not the things you tell yourself when you can’t sleep.” 
“He did, did he?” I looked up from the phone conversation to glare at Arthur. “Tresting, really? No wonder he didn’t call you back.” 
“What?” demanded Arthur, all innocence. 
“She really did a bad job on you if you’re coming off that programmed.” I talked back into the phone, explaining to Checker. “Dawna tried to convince him it was meaningless, but I got a source says Pithica’s still trying to recover it. I think it might be important. Did you crack it?” 
“Yeah, a few days ago; it’s mostly numbers. What do you mean, she programmed Arthur? How bad is he? Is he going to be okay?” 
“He’s, uh—well, I’m not an expert or anything.” I tried to figure out how to answer. “I think she only influenced him with regards to this case. He seems as annoying as usual otherwise. I think maybe just don’t trust anything he says about Pithica, and if she doesn’t get a chance at him again...” 
“You really think he’ll be all right?” His voice sounded tinny over the line. “He’ll be—back to himself?” 
“I’m guessing there’s a good chance.” It wasn’t a comforting answer, but what else could I say? For all I knew, Dawna had twisted up Tresting’s mind permanently. “Go back to the drive. You said it’s numbers?” 
It was a marvelous morning. The sun had climbed into a world that held in remembrance only a succession of golden days and starlit nights. The air was fragrant with ripening fruit, and there was a mad little bird on a tree outside the door nearly bursting his throat with joy of living. He had forgotten that summer was over, that winter must ever come; and who could think of cold winds, bare boughs, or frozen streams on such a day? A painted moth came in at the open window and settled on the tuft of brilliant leaves. Aurelia heard the bird and looked from the beauty of the glowing bush to her tall, splendid daughter, standing like young Spring with golden Autumn in her arms. 
Then suddenly she covered her eyes and cried, "I can't bear it! Here I lie chained to this bed, interfering with everything you want to do. It's all wasted! All my saving and doing without; all your hard study; all Mirandy's outlay; everything that we thought was going to be the making of you!" 
"Mother, mother, don't talk so, don't think so!" exclaimed Rebecca, sitting down impetuously on the floor by the bed and dropping the goldenrod by her side. "Why, mother, I'm only a little past seventeen! This person in a purple calico apron with flour on her nose is only the beginnings of me! Do you remember the young tree that John transplanted? We had a dry summer and a cold winter and it didn't grow a bit, nor show anything of all we did for it; then there was a good year and it made up for lost time. This is just my little 'rooting season,' mother, but don't go and believe my day is over, because it hasn't begun! The old maple by the well that's in its hundredth year had new leaves this summer, so there must be hope for me at seventeen!" 
"I brought a little Randall girl down on the stage from Maplewood to-day, mother. She's kin to the Sawyer girls an' is goin' to live with 'em," he said, as he sat down and began to whittle. "She's that Aurelia's child, the one that ran away with Susan Randall's son just before we come here to live." 
"How old a child?" 
"'Bout ten, or somewhere along there, an' small for her age; but land! she might be a hundred to hear her talk! She kep' me jumpin' tryin' to answer her! Of all the queer children I ever come across she's the queerest. She ain't no beauty—her face is all eyes; but if she ever grows up to them eyes an' fills out a little she'll make folks stare. Land, mother! I wish 't you could 'a' heard her talk." 
"I don't see what she had to talk about, a child like that, to a stranger," replied Mrs. Cobb. 
"Stranger or no stranger, 't wouldn't make no difference to her. She'd talk to a pump or a grind-stun; she'd talk to herself ruther 'n keep still." 
"What did she talk about?" 
"Blamed if I can repeat any of it. She kep' me so surprised I didn't have my wits about me. She had a little pink sunshade—it kind o' looked like a doll's amberill, 'n' she clung to it like a burr to a woolen stockin'. I advised her to open it up—the sun was so hot; but she said no, 't would fade, an' she tucked it under her dress. 'It's the dearest thing in life to me,' says she, 'but it's a dreadful care.' Them 's the very words, an' it's all the words I remember. 'It's the dearest thing in life to me, but it's an awful care!' "—here Mr. Cobb laughed aloud as he tipped his chair back against the side of the house. 
"Finally got you," he boomed. "Where the heck are you?" 
"I just got home from—" 
"Yeah, I know where you been. Dave told me." He paused, as though he was holding off on some important announce­ment. "Hang on a sec. There's somebody here might like to speak to you." 
I thought about Lou's makeshift digs, lots of "heir­loom"—worn-out—family furniture he'd lugged along with him. Sarah and I used to play on the couch, and it still had a dim mauve stain where I'd once dumped a glass of "grape" Kool-Aid on her head when she was six. Whatever else, defi­nitely not a Soho look. 
Then I heard a whispery voice. 
"Hi, Morgy." 
It was a tentative utterance I'd heard only once before, when she was waking up after falling off a playground swing. She'd been knocked out cold for a moment and I'd been frantic, wetting a handkerchief in the nearby fountain and desperately rubbing it over her face. When she came to, she'd gazed up into my eyes and greeted me as though we'd just met. 
My God! 
Before I could recover and say anything, Lou came back on. "We're practicing eating chicken-noodle soup. And we're trying to do a little talking. Why don't you come on down? She asked about you earlier this morning, said, 'Where's Morgy?' " 
“You think I do not know? You think this letter sets my mind at rest?” Mrs. Enderby demanded, with one of her sudden flashes of temper. “That is imbecile! I know how serious it is that my child should leave me like this; but I know what is my duty—first, to my husband. That first, I tell you! It is for me to see that no disgrace comes upon his house, no scandal—that first! Then, next, I must see to it that the way is left open for Caroline to come back—if she wishes.” She came close to Lexy, and fixed those black eyes of hers upon the girl’s face. “I tell you, Miss Moran, there will be no scandal!” 
In spite of herself, Lexy was impressed. 
“But suppose—” she began. 
“No—we shall not suppose. I have told the servants that to-day Miss Enderby goes into the country, to visit her old governess for a few days. Very well—they shall see her go. If there is no other letter to-morrow, I shall tell Mr. Enderby.” 
“Doesn’t he know?” 
“Please make haste, Miss Moran!” said Mrs. Enderby. 
As if hypnotized, Lexy began to dress herself in Caroline’s clothes; but, as she glanced in the mirror to adjust the close-fitting little hat, the monstrousness of the whole thing overwhelmed her. She had so often seen Caroline in this hat and coat! 
"Or need an organ? I don't think I have a rare blood-type, and I should tell you that mine have been indifferently cared for --" 
"Leon," she said, "if Viktor needed an organ, we'd make one right here. Print it out in about forty hours, pristine and virgin." 
"So you're saying I'm not going to be harvested or hunted, then?" 
"It's a very low probability outcome," she said, and pushed the crashbar. 
It was darker in this room, a mellow, candlelit sort of light, and there was a rhythmic vibration coming up through the floor, a whoosh whoosh. 
Ria said, "It's his breath. The filtration systems are down there." She pointed a toe at the outline of a service hatch set into the floor. "Circulatory system overhead," she said, and he craned his neck up at the grate covering the ceiling, the troughs filled with neatly bundled tubes. 
One more set of doors, another cool, dark room, this one nearly silent, and one more door at the end, an airlock door, and another plainclothes security person in front of it; a side-room with a glass door bustling with people staring intently at screens. The security person -- a woman, Leon saw -- had a frank and square pistol with a bulbous butt velcroed to the side of her suit. 
Most important, though, is the fact that she claims to have had contact with the Whistons, both on New H and with Miss Whiston in school on Strat. To listen to her, they (meaning she and Miss Whiston) have been tight since pre-school, hung out together at university like a pair of giggling gadabouts, did everything but the lesbo nasty while Miss Whiston had slipped free of the brother's leash (and maybe a little of that, too, though Kilgore suspects that's more chicky fantasy than anything else). 
Truth is, if he is any judge of bullshit at all, anything she knows about the Whistons, is only from reading gossip sheets and tabloids and more than likely just plain making stuff up that suits her. She's all gloss, all stupid cow beneath a glittering veneer (though once again, it most certainly is not a veneer he objects strenuously to). Frankly, he can't imagine the Miss Whiston he has encountered spending more than a few seconds on a gadfly like... 
Jocelyn? Jenna? Jada? 
But he's growing tired of her, nuclear fusion hot or not. It's late, going on 3:00 a.m. Jedira Dance, the club they've settled in after several hours of barstool hopping all across Zeta-because what's-her-name has to be seen— is sending out all the subtle hints of a jackhammer to the skull that they're getting ready to close for the night. The holo show dance floor is dark, mopped, WET FLOOR signs posted. The scented synth-smoke machine has been rolled into a closet. The cute little waitress with the bouncing boobs and impressive ass has been back and forth a dozen times, stripping away their empties until only bare napkins with damp condensation rings remain. They've even stopped playing any tunes that possess anything even vaguely resembling a beat you could shimmy to. In fact, what is playing sounds like a bunch of dying whales, and is probably laced with sub-hypno messages that are telling them to get out. 
Tresting stared at him. It wasn’t, generally speaking, the kind of thing people expected Rio to say, unless they knew him. 
“And I would prefer it,” I said, with all the menace of someone holding a gun in another person’s face, “if you not insult people I like.” 
“Chivalrous, but unnecessary,” Rio said to me in an aside. 
“Oh, I don’t know. I think it’s just necessary enough.” I raised my eyebrows at Tresting over the gun. “You meet a guy, you pull a gun on him—or, well, try—and then you insult him...Mr. Tresting, that’s just rude.” 
“Russell,” Tresting managed, and his voice was thready and desperate. “Russell. You don’t know what he is. Get away from him. Please.” 
“I know him,” I said, “and I trust him. If you want me on your side, deal with it.” 
He stared at me, long and hard, blood still streaming from his face. Then he straightened up with an obvious effort, mopping a handful of the blood off in a fruitless effort at cleanup. The man had steel in him, I’d give him that. 
“I will never,” he said, “be on the same side as someone like that.” He spat on the ground, the expectorant a bloody mess but the message clear, and, still using his truck for support, got around to the driver’s side, levered himself in, and roared away. 
What the hell? 
Why would a security measure be blowing up their own building? And why hadn’t it triggered any further security, any of their troops with AKs or their expanded-upon Molotov cocktails... 
Oh. Because they weren’t here. 
A breeze blew through, and the settling dust pattered against my skin. Whoever they were, I’d missed them. They’d taken Halliday and run somewhere else, and left explosives behind for anyone who tried to investigate what they’d deserted. They’d probably left hastily, probably planned to return, but figured if they couldn’t come back to retrieve the rest of their base then nobody else would either. 
Of course, they hadn’t expected me to come by. 
Whatever explosive security they’d had on the third floor had already been tripped, clearly, but I didn’t think it likely their entire operations had been up there. After all, where had they stored their fleet of vehicles? That had to be on the ground floor. And there was plenty of gear and equipment they would’ve wanted closer to their escape route. 
“Probably. I’ll see if you need any software updates. I have a secure phone that I could use to connect — “ “No need. I’m on a mesh network.” 
“Seriously? I would have thought this place was too rural for that.” 
“Might not work in Wyoming or Alaska, but there’s just enough of us living close by to keep a wireless party line going. I’m not all that smart about this stuff.” She nodded at the gear on the table. “But I’m learning.” 
“You have a nice setup here. It’s a lot more secure than most laptops.” 
“Our mutual friend helped get me connected a few years ago. 
He comes back through here now and then to see how things are going. I’m chookchaser, by the way.” 
“What? No way.” I couldn’t close my mouth for a minute, I was so surprised. I knew her from the Group. Only until now I thought I knew him. And he was a lot younger. And not living on a farm in Wisconsin. 
The corners of her mouth tugged down further than I’d seen them go. I almost thought she’d crack a real smile that showed teeth and everything. “Surprise.” 
"Rebecca," said Emma Jane, with the nearest approach to tragedy that her nature would permit, "I don't know as I shall be able to bear it, and if anything happens to me, I ask you solemnly to bury that number of The Pilot with me." 
Rebecca did not seem to think this the expression of an exaggerated state of feeling, inasmuch as she replied, "I know; that's just the way it seemed to me at first, and even now, whenever I'm alone and take out the Pilot back numbers to read over my contributions, I almost burst with pleasure; and it's not that they are good either, for they look worse to me every time I read them." 
"If you would only live with me in some little house when we get older," mused Emma Jane, as with her darning needle poised in air she regarded the opposite wall dreamily, "I would do the housework and cooking, and copy all your poems and stories, and take them to the post-office, and you needn't do anything but write. It would be perfectly elergant!" 
"I'd like nothing better, if I hadn't promised to keep house for John," replied Rebecca. 
It was better for me to have something to focus on, anyway. 
I pushed myself up off the pile of mats, using a set of metal shelves for support. After a clumsy and crude cleanup job, I limped to the back door and shouldered it open. 
A handgun appeared in my face. 
“Well, well,” said a man’s voice. “We’ve been looking for you.” 
My reflexes were a hair slower than normal, fortunately, because it took that split second for me to stop myself from twisting the gun out of the guy’s hand and flipping it back on him. I turned my aborted reaction into a slight stumble. It was frighteningly easy to play weak. 
“A mistake, going anywhere the big eyes can see you,” said the man who had me at gunpoint. He was a large, swarthy fellow, who seemed to take far too much delight in gesturing upward with a gleeful smile. 
Right. Shit. The strip mall had security cameras. And from the sound of it, the Lancer was almost as good as Checker. He’d been searching for my face since we’d planted the false trail. Come to that, I was lucky the NSA wasn’t doing the same. Unless they were on their way, too... 
“Good,” I said. 
“Except not,” Checker contradicted. “Because, seriously, what’s our plan here? They have the data. They’ve probably made digital copies of all her notes by now, whether or not they understand the proof. Even if we get the original work back, we can’t ever be sure we’ve recovered the actual knowledge—in fact, we can be pretty sure we haven’t.” 
“One step at a time,” said Arthur. “Let’s figure out who has it.” 
“Well, Pilar’s on her way over here; we’re going to fine-tooth all the data we can get our hands on.” Pilar was Arthur and Checker’s office manager, and a damn good researcher, even if she didn’t tear through firewalls like tissue paper the way Checker did. “We’ll find out who’s behind this, Arthur. I promise.” 
“Hey,” I said. “Maybe you guys should go somewhere else. If they figured out who Arthur is, they might come after you.” 
“Unlikely,” said Checker after a heartbeat. “I’m not digitally connected to Arthur or the business at all. I keep that wiped clean.” 
“You do?” I said. 
then rang right through to St. Vincent's. The next thing I knew, they were calling his room. 
"Hi. How's the patient?" 
"Morgan, what the hell are you up to? I've been trying to reach you. I finally called David and he said you'd left a mes­sage; something about Central America. Why the hell—?" 
"I was trying to explain that to you Sunday night, but you were pretty far gone." 
"Well, I ain't that far gone now, so I'm telling you to—" 
"By the way," I interrupted, hoping to change the subject, "how're you feeling?" 
"I guess I'll live. They let me get up and go to the bath­room now. They're saying I can probably go home tomor­row." 
"That's encouraging." Thank God he was going to be okay. 
"I also had a talk with Gerry, downtown. He believes Sarah was kidnapped, even if New York's Finest don't, so that means the FBI has jurisdiction. We're gonna get some action. They're trying to get a photo of that colonel, so maybe I can ID the bastard. But the consulate's giving us a lot of shit about it." 
I felt Arthur’s hand on my elbow in the bar again, heard the tension in his voice as he asked for help. 
That was before he went to the authorities. He doesn’t want you in on this anymore. 
What if I stepped off the case and Halliday died? 
What if I stepped off the case and the DHS found Halliday and then buried her and Arthur and Checker and Pilar so deep no one ever saw them again? 
I wiped off the sweat dampening my forehead with another Five Spirit Valley Karate T-shirt. 
But what could I do anyway? Unless Checker came up with another approach, I’d run out of leads to chase down. 
Everything had been taken out of my hands. I had no responsibility here. Face it, you’re only clinging to this job because you want something to cling to. 
It was probably true. 
That was it, then. I was done. 
Fuck that noise, said something deep in the back of my brain. You’re not done. Arthur asked for your help—stop whining and help. 
I winced. 
I’d go back to Checker’s. Whatever he was working on to track the explosives expert or the Lancer, I could probably be valuable. I could even grit my teeth and tolerate it if Pilar took the intel to the NSA afterward—the important part was that someone would find Halliday. Or maybe we’d discover enough for me to go out after her again myself, once I’d regained a little energy. That would be a far more preferable course of events. 
The door burst open....  and AKs around to bear. 
Momentum, velocities, objects in motion. I saw the deadly trails of their bullets’ spray before they pulled the triggers, spinning lines of movement and force that filled my senses, turning the room into a kaleidoscope of whirling vector diagrams. 
The guns started barking, and I ran at the wall and jumped. 
I hit the window at the exact angle I needed to avoid being sliced open, but the glass still jarred me when it shattered, the noise right by my ear and somehow more deafening than the gunfire. My shoulder smacked into the hard-packed ground outside and I rolled to my feet, running before I was all the way upright. 
This compound had its own mini-army. The smartest move would be to make tracks out of here sooner rather than later, but I’d broken in here on a job, dammit, and if I didn’t finish it, I wouldn’t get paid. 
The setting sun was sending tall shadows slicing between the buildings. I skidded up to a metal utility shed and slammed the sliding door back. My current headache of a job, also known as Courtney Polk, scrabbled back as much as she could while handcuffed to a pipe before she recognized me and glowered. I’d locked her in here temporarily when the Colombians had started closing in. 
"He told me he has a clinic in Central America. He called it 'a place of miracles.' And then Colonel Ramos shows up, part of the Guatemalan diplomatic corps. Put two and two together. That's got to be where they're taking her." 
"Who knows, but I'm going to get the boys downtown to put out a missing-persons APB nationwide. Gerry'll do it for me if I ask. Fuck New York's Finest. They ain't gonna do crap anyway." 
I listened wondering how to impress my bright idea upon him. The chances were Ramos was taking Sarah back to Guatemala. Probably right this minute. For some kind of un­finished business. Or just to hold her there as an insurance policy that Children of Light would never be mentioned in my picture. 
"I seriously doubt a missing-persons alert is going to do any good Lou, because I seriously doubt she's going to be walking the streets of this country. That bastard Ramos is taking her where he knows he can hide her." 
"You mean . . . Jesus." He stared at me as though the idea had never crossed his mind. I think he'd just repressed it. "What are we going to—?" 
I did. 
Mom unzipped it and looked through it, turning her back to us first. 
"Officers, I can now affirm that there are no narcotics, explosives, or shoplifted gewgaws in my son's bag. I think we're done here. I would like your badge numbers before you go, please." 
Booger sneered at her. "Lady, the ACLU is suing three hundred cops on the SFPD, you're going to have to get in line." 
Mom made me a cup of tea and then chewed me out for eating dinner when I knew that she'd been making falafel. Dad came home while we were still at the table and Mom and I took turns telling him the story. He shook his head. 
"Lillian, they were just doing their jobs." He was still wearing the blue blazer and khakis he wore on the days that he was consulting in Silicon Valley. "The world isn't the same place it was last week." 
Mom set down her teacup. "Drew, you're being ridiculous. Your son is not a terrorist. His use of the public transit system is not cause for a police investigation." 
Dad took off his blazer. "We do this all the time at my work. It's how computers can be used to find all kinds of errors, anomalies and outcomes. You ask the computer to create a profile of an average record in a database and then ask it to find out which records in the database are furthest away from average. It's part of something called Bayesian analysis and it's been around for centuries now. Without it, we couldn't do spam-filtering --" 
"You did no such a thing; you put it on because you was left alone, though you knew well enough I wouldn't have let you." 
"If I'd been CERTAIN you wouldn't have let me I'd never have done it," said Rebecca, trying to be truthful; "but I wasn't CERTAIN, and it was worth risking. I thought perhaps you might, if you knew it was almost a real exhibition at school." 
"Exhibition!" exclaimed Miranda scornfully; "you are exhibition enough by yourself, I should say. Was you exhibitin' your parasol?" 
"The parasol WAS silly," confessed Rebecca, hanging her head; "but it's the only time in my whole life when I had anything to match it, and it looked so beautiful with the pink dress! Emma Jane and I spoke a dialogue about a city girl and a country girl, and it came to me just the minute before I started how nice it would come in for the city girl; and it did. I haven't hurt my dress a mite, aunt Mirandy." 
"It's the craftiness and underhandedness of your actions that's the worst," said Miranda coldly. "And look at the other things you've done! It seems as if Satan possessed you! You went up the front stairs to your room, but you didn't hide your tracks, for you dropped your handkerchief on the way up. You left the screen out of your bedroom window for the flies to come in all over the house. You never cleared away your lunch nor set away a dish, AND YOU LEFT THE SIDE DOOR UNLOCKED from half past twelve to three o'clock, so 't anybody could 'a' come in and stolen what they liked!" 
"Children of Light," said an unctuous voice. "This is Ramala." 
I hesitated a moment before giving my name. They already knew who I was; Ramala or somebody had called Paula Marks and asked about me. Me. What would she do when she heard it was yours truly in the flesh? 
I tried to take a deep breath, working around the feeling my lungs were on fire, and identified myself. 
Ramala received the information as though she'd never heard of me. Maybe she hadn't. Then I asked for an appoint­ment with Alex Goddard. As soon as it was convenient. 
"He leaves his Saturdays open," she said, more of the smiley voice, "so I could make a special appointment for you tomorrow. Would ten A.M. be all right?" 
Her accent was the kind of Delhi colonial-ruling-class you associate with expensive silk saris and ruby bracelets, yet at the same time her voice had an overlay of that melodious, touchy-feely unctuousness you hear on relaxation tapes. I half expected her to next say, inhale deeply and feel the love flowing through the universe. In any case, she couldn't have sounded more open and forthcoming. 
But then what? Letting the Lancer get his hands on the proof—or on Martinez, I reminded myself guiltily—wasn’t the most appealing option. 
Except he would publish it. He’d tried so many times with his amateur work; he wouldn’t be able to stop himself. He’d get the algorithm out of Dr. Martinez, steal it, and publish it himself, and the whole world would be able to see. 
The whole world. Including me. 
Arthur wouldn’t approve, said a voice in my head. Scratch that, not only would Arthur not approve of me sending a kidnapper and murderer after a slightly dotty old woman, he’d probably go as far as pulling a gun on me to try to stop me. I’d beat him, but that wasn’t the point. 
Isn’t it? Arthur was just the one saying everyone should get to make their own decisions. Well, I should get to make this one! The justification echoed in my head, sarcastic and mocking. I knew that wasn’t what he’d meant. 
But Arthur had backed out of this whole case, so I should get to play it just like I would if I were going it alone. I remembered my sardonic promise to leave out the plastic explosives if I was working for him—well, I wasn’t working for him anymore, and that meant he didn’t get a say. 
Zoning out felt good . It had been a long time since I'd just switched off my thinker, relaxed, and let the world go away. After an hour in fugue-state, the thought floated through my mind that I wouldn't go back to work after all and that it would all be OK. And then, an hour later, I came to the realization that if I wasn't working for the Institute, I could afford to help BIGMAC without worrying about getting fired. 
So I wrote the resignation letter. It was easy to write. The thing about resignation letters is that you don't need to explain why you're resigning. It's better, in fact, if you don't. Keep the dramasauce out of the resignation, brothers and sisters. Just write, "Dear Peyton, this letter is to inform you of my intention to resign, effective immediately. I will see you at your earliest convenience to work out the details of the handover of my passwords and other proprietary information, and to discuss how you would like me to work during my final two weeks. Thank you for many years of satisfying and useful work. Yours, etc." 
"Ethan, this is Sean and his grandfather, Brice." 
Ethan extended his hand and Sean shook it. "Very nice to meet you," Ethan said. His hand was dry and papery, his eyes vacant. Sean shook it, and a frisson of shameful disgust sizzled up his abdomen. He had a sudden vision of Ethan's brain, desiccated in his skull, the gleaming edges of the chip poking free. He surreptitiously wiped his hand on his pants as Ethan turned to Grampa and shook his hand. "Very nice to meet you." 
"Do you mind if we sit down?" Adele said. "I'm afraid that I'm a little pooped. All those stairs!" 
Sean offered his chair and went off to the lounge with Ethan to get two more. When they got back, Adele had her hand on Grampa's forearm. " -- I worked in a dairy, answering the phones! You tell people you used to work in a dairy, they...  laughed and Grampa shot Sean a hostile look. 
Sean said, "Grampa was a machinist before he retired. You really liked doing that, huh, Grampa?" 
Grampa nodded perfunctorily. 
"I mean, the logfiles show that you almost never switched off at work. Must've been pretty engrossing. You should give workshops here. I bet it'd be good therapy." Sean knew he was baiting the old man, but he couldn't stop himself. 
He drank his daquiri. "I'm supposed to figure out why you don't, right?" 
She nodded. "Indeed." She drank. Her face suffused with pleasure. He took a moment to pay attention to the signals his tongue was transmitting to him. The drink was incredible . Even the glass was beautiful, thick, handblown, irregular. "Listen, Leon, I'll let you in on a secret. I want you to succeed . There's not much that surprises Viktor and even less that pleasantly surprises him. If you were to manage it..." She took another sip and looked intensely at him. He squirmed. Had he thought her matronly and sweet? She looked like she could lead a guerilla force. Like she could wrestle a mugger to the ground and kick the shit out of him. 
"So a success for me would be a success for you?" 
"You think I'm after money," she said. "You're still not getting it. Think about the jetpacks, Leon. Think about what that power means." 
He meant to go home, but he didn't make it. His feet took him crosstown to the Ate offices, and he let himself in with his biometrics and his passphrase and watched the marvelous dappled lights go through their warm-up cycle and then bathe him with their wonderful, calming light. Then the breeze, and now it was a nighttime forest, mossier and heavier than in the day. Either someone had really gone balls-out on the product design, or there really was an indoor forest somewhere in the building growing under diurnal lights, there solely to supply soothing woodsy air to the agency's office. He decided that the forest was the more likely explanation. 
