“Who were you calling?” asked Courtney, getting out of the car and squinting at me in the glare of the Southern California sun. 
“A friend,” I said. Well, sort of. “Someone I trust.” That part was true. 
“Someone who can help us?” 
“Maybe.” Rio was clearly working his own angle, and didn’t want help—even from me. Which hurt a little, if I wanted to be honest with myself. I’m good at what I do. Rio didn’t mean to hurt me, of course; he didn’t care about my feelings one way or another. He didn’t care about anyone’s feelings. I wondered what it said about me that he was the closest thing I did have to a friend. 
Suck it up, Cas. 
Rio wasn’t the only resource I had. I contemplated for a moment, then dialed another number. 
“Mack’s Garage,” said a gravelly voice on the other end. 
“Anton, it’s Cas Russell. I need some information.” 
He grunted. “Usual rates.” 
“Yeah. I need everything you can get on the word Pithica.” 
“Spelling?” 
“I’m not sure. There might be some ties to Colombian drug runners. And the authorities might be investigating already.” 
“Certainly!” answered an equally polite voice at the other end of the wire. “Just a moment, please! You mean Mr. Houseman, second officer on the Mazell?” 
“I don’t know,” said Lexy, surprised. “Has he blue eyes?” 
There was an instant’s silence. Then the voice spoke again, a little unsteadily. 
“I—I believe so.” 
“He’s laughing at me!” thought Lexy indignantly, and her voice became severely dignified. 
“Can you tell me where the—the Mazell has gone?” 
“Thank you!” said Lexy. “And that’s that!” she added, to herself. “So he’s a sailor! I rather like sailors. Well, anyhow, he’s gone.” She sighed. “Carry on!” she said. 
She went into a tea room on Forty-Second Street and ordered herself a very good lunch. 
“Much better than I can afford,” she thought. “Goodness knows what’s going to happen to me! Here I am, without visible means of support. I suppose I’m an idiot. Lots of people would say so. They’d say I ought to be looking for a new job this instant; but I don’t care! I’m not going back on Caroline. Mrs. Enderby won’t do anything, and Mr. Houseman’s gone away, and there’s nobody but me. Perhaps I can’t do very much, but, by jiminy, I’m going to try!” 
<wheeze> "detained in connection with a ter- rorism investigation." 
<zen> wtf ! ? 
I was shocked, but it felt like something I’d seen coming, like when you read a story that you know is going to have a big twist at the end and you think, “Wow! That’s a surprise - not.” Only this wasn’t a made-up story. It was a disaster I had predicted but couldn’t prevent. 
Wilson wasn’t a braniac. He was a doofus, but he was a friendly doofus whose biggest problem was that he wanted every- one to like him. Basically, he was like a big puppy who wouldn’t behave but didn’t mean any harm. He got into trouble all the time, but it was for stupid stuff, like goofing off in a fancy grocery store with his friends and accidentally bumping into a display of gourmet pickles and having $600 worth of pickles and broken glass suddenly explode all over the floor. Which wouldn’t be that big of a deal if he didn’t keep laughing his head off while the man- ager tried to impress on him how serious it was. 
I mean, it’s not like he would steal a bottle of gourmet pickles. 
“Take five minutes. Or fertilizer. Oklahoma City? One truck, a load of fertilizer, and that building was destroyed, man. They say you could hear the blast fifty miles away.” 
“Same shit took out a building at the University of Wisconsin back when students knew what resistance really looks like,” 
Danny said. “Not so easy to get the right kind of fertilizer these days, though.” 
“Hey, Cemfl,” Simon said. “You know how to make bombs?” 
“Excuse me?” 
“You’re studying chemistry. I’ll bet you know how to make stuff explode.” Simon demonstrated with his hands flying out. 
“Boom.” 
Cemfl’s eyes widened. “Why are you saying this nonsense?” 
“You’re the one who wanted to overthrow what’s-his-name, 
that president of yours.” 
“Our protests were not violent. We got tear-gassed. We got beaten. We stood in the park with books, reading silently.” 
“Bet that scared the shit out of them.” Simon held up his palms. “The bomb thing? It was just a joke, okay?” 
Marita patted his knee. “Don’t listen to these jerks. They’re just goofing off.” 
I turned to my SchoolBook and hit the keyboard. The web-browser we used was supplied with the machine. It was a locked-down spyware version of Internet Explorer, Microsoft's crashware turd that no one under the age of 40 used voluntarily. 
I had a copy of Firefox on the USB drive built into my watch, but that wasn't enough -- the SchoolBook ran Windows Vista4Schools, an antique operating system designed to give school administrators the illusion that they controlled the programs their students could run. 
But Vista4Schools is its own worst enemy. There are a lot of programs that Vista4Schools doesn't want you to be able to shut down -- keyloggers, censorware -- and these programs run in a special mode that makes them invisible to the system. You can't quit them because you can't even see they're there. 
Any program whose name starts with $SYS$ is invisible to the operating system. it doesn't show up on listings of the hard drive, nor in the process monitor. So my copy of Firefox was called $SYS$Firefox -- and as I launched it, it became invisible to Windows, and so invisible to the network's snoopware. 
Arthur flicked his eyes to the side mirror. “I don’t see anything,” he said, after a few more streets of watching the tragic comedy that is LA drivers trying to navigate through pounding rain. “How can you tell?” 
“Game theory,” I said. “The white sedan isn’t driving selfishly.” 
“They staked out Checker’s place,” Arthur guessed. “Case we came back.” 
“It’s okay,” I assured him. “They’re not after us; they want us to lead them back to Rio. I can lose them.” I juked the steering wheel to the side and slammed on the gas, shooting through the next intersection just as the light changed. Arthur yelled. In the rearview mirror, an SUV crashed spectacularly into the passenger side of the white sedan, and brakes screeched as three other cars skidded on the wet streets, spinning to a stop and completely blocking the intersection behind us. 
“What the hell!” cried Arthur. 
“We’d better switch cars,” I said. 
“You could’ve gotten us killed!” 
“Please. That was child’s play.” 
“You might’ve gotten other people killed!” 
> We were jamming at the Embarcadero tonite and goofing around giving everyone a new car key or door key or Fast Pass or FasTrak, tossing around a little fake gunpowder. There were cops everywhere but we were smarter than them; we're there pretty much every night and we never get caught. 
> So we got caught tonight. It was a stupid mistake we got sloppy we got busted. It was an undercover who caught my pal and then got the rest of us. They'd been watching the crowd for a long time and they had one of those trucks nearby and they took four of us in but missed the rest. 
> The truck was JAMMED like a can of sardines with every kind of person, old young black white rich poor all suspects, and there were two cops trying to ask us questions and the undercovers kept bringing in more of us. Most people were trying to get to the front of the line to get through questioning so we kept on moving back and it was like hours in there and really hot and it was getting more crowded not less. 
> At like 8PM they changed shifts and two new cops came in and bawled out the two cops who were there all like wtf? aren't you doing anything here. They had a real fight and then the two old cops left and the new cops sat down at their desks and whispered to each other for a while. 
It was a bigger crowd than I expected. There were the usual activist types, including a bossy guy with a loud speaker shouting out things that nobody could hear clearly. Big steroidal men wear- ing coats that said POLICE or FEDERAL MARSHAL on the back in case we didn’t know who they were stood around, feet spread, eyes hidden behind dark glasses. I didn’t see anyone with FBI on their jackets, but they were mingling with the crowd in plain clothes, trying to blend in while also looking so clean-cut and wholesome they didn’t. 
Some protesters were banging on drums, which seems to be required for demonstrations nowadays, and a group of people were wearing scarves over their faces printed to make them look like Anonymous, which is actually ripped off from a comic-book version of a Catholic guy who tried to blow up Parliament in olden days, which children still celebrate every year in England by burning him at the stake as a wholesome national pastime. People are so weird. 
I found Nikko straddling his crappy fixed gear bike at the edge of the crowd, frowning thoughtfully as if he was wondering how he would stage the scene if he were put in charge. It would prob- ably be a lot more dramatic, with the cops holding machine guns and smoke pouring from tear gas canisters . Which, if this had been happening in North Minneapolis instead of downtown and the crowd was black instead of almost all white, is what it probably what it would have looked like. 
“Police rarely have the best interests of the individual citizen at heart,” rambled Martinez. “Contradiction, isn’t it? But I rather think they view themselves as being in the interests of the State instead. The goals of the collective are not always the goals of any person within it. And competence is often predicated on desire.” 
“Yeah, well, they’re gonna have desire in this case, ain’t they?” said Arthur impatiently. “They’ll want the proof enough to help find Sonya.” 
“Her safety is the only axiom,” said Martinez. “It’s astounding, how confusing that can make things.” 
“It ain’t confusing,” said Arthur. “It ain’t confusing at all. Sonya’s in danger, Professor. Make the damned call.” 
She fingered the handset. “I don’t like talking to people.” 
I suspected at that moment that Arthur was showing superb control in not letting loose on a little old lady with a string of profanities. 
“But I shall,” said Martinez. “It’s for Sonya. For Sonya. Her safety.” 
“Yes,” said Arthur, taking a deep breath. “Yes.” He waved at me to follow him and strode toward the door, already dialing his mobile. 
Jennifer kept her eyes coolly fixed on that empty, safe spot. "As you know, we have struggled to close a deal with any of our major accounts." He restrained himself from rolling his eyes. "And so Mr Brautigan has undertaken a thorough study of the way we handle these accounts." She nodded at Brautigan. 
"It's a mess," he said. "Totally scattergun. No lines of authority. No checks and balances. No system." 
"I can't argue with that," Leon said. He saw where this was going. 
"Yes," Jennifer said. "You haven't been here very long, but I understand you've been looking deeply into the organizational structure of Ate yourself, haven't you?" He nodded. "And that's why Mr Brautigan has asked that you be tasked to him as his head of strategic research." She smiled a thin smile. "Congratulations yourself." 
He said, "Thanks," flatly, and looked at Brautigan. "What's strategic research, then?" 
"Oh," Brautigan said. "Just a lot of what you've been doing: figuring out what everyone's up to, putting them together, proposing organizational structures that will make us more efficient at design and deployment. Stuff you're good at." 
"I asked you who sold the soap to Adam Ladd?" resumed Miss Jane. 
"Adam Ladd! then he's A. Ladd, too; what fun!" 
"Answer me, Rebecca." 
"Oh! excuse me, aunt Jane, I was so busy thinking. Emma Jane and I sold the soap to Mr. Ladd." 
"Did you tease him, or make him buy it?" 
"Now, aunt Jane, how could I make a big grown-up man buy anything if he didn't want to? He needed the soap dreadfully as a present for his aunt." 
Miss Jane still looked a little unconvinced, though she only said, "I hope your aunt Miranda won't mind, but you know how particular she is, Rebecca, and I really wish you wouldn't do anything out of the ordinary without asking her first, for your actions are very queer." 
"There can't be anything wrong this time," Rebecca answered confidently. "Emma Jane sold her cakes to her own relations and to uncle Jerry Cobb, and I went first to those new tenements near the lumber mill, and then to the Ladds'. Mr. Ladd bought all we had and made us promise to keep the secret until the premium came, and I've been going about ever since as if the banquet lamp was inside of me all lighted up and burning, for everybody to see." 
“Hey, girl. You with me for real this time?” 
I batted weakly at the wet cloth being dabbed against my face. “ I was going to be that,” I slurred. 
“Russell? You was gonna be what?” 
I came more fully awake and tried to sit up. The room spun immediately. Lines of space and time crisscrossed each other in sick, twisted, impossible ways. I had no warning before I was turning to the side and vomiting up every meal I’d ever eaten, and then vomiting up stomach lining. At least, that was how it felt. 
“Whoa! Whoa, sweetheart. Lie back down.” I kept my eyes shut, listening to Arthur’s voice as his hands guided me. The stench of sick filled the air. “I’ll clean up. Lie still for a touch.” 
I heard him start moving around and cautiously tried cracking my eyes open again. Everything was still squiggly and strange, but at least it wasn’t so wrong anymore. I was lying on a pallet in the corner of some sort of empty industrial warehouse. 
Arthur finished what he was doing and came back; he supported my head and tilted a cup of water against my mouth. “Easy, girlfriend. Take it easy.” 
I didn’t buy that for a hot second. 
“Dr. Kingsley,” said Finch, very tensely, “May I ask if you’ve had any visitors today?” 
Her brow furrowed. “Um...two police officers; they said they’d had another threat. I’ve had a lot of threats since this started,” she explained to nobody. “It’s one of the reasons...” 
Tresting crossed his arms. “Doc, the first time you got a death threat you called and asked me what kind of shotgun to buy, and then told me to bug your phone and said you hoped they’d keep calling so they’d give something away.” 
“You see? This is why I have to stop this,” she pleaded. “It’s madness. It’s been like an addiction. I can’t—” 
“Please,” interrupted Finch. “Did you have any other visitors today?” 
“Well, you, I suppose.” She looked at Tresting as if asking for help, but his eyes were pinched, and he said nothing. She waved her hands weakly. “That’s it. No one else.” 
“Dr. Kingsley,” said Finch. “This is very important. Can you recount your entire day for me?” 
Getting no help from Tresting, Kingsley looked at me. I gave her a slight shrug. It was unnerving that Finch seemed to have taken over completely while still being at gunpoint, but I very much wanted to see where this was going. “My whole day?” she finally repeated. 
"Of course, we have better facilities and a large staff in Blackheath Grange to continue this process, but then they are in the world, of it, immersed in it. We do not want them to feel lost and alone in this new place. So we teach them, and the result is that they become attractive members of the colony. They have the skills and education that the colony needs. In return, they receive love, friendship, support, an extended family as a foundation upon which they can build a life of sound purpose. It is good for both sides, don't you agree?" 
He doesn't actually know if he agrees in principle, or if it's just the best of a poor lot of options, but he says he understands and exchanges what he assumes are more or less appropriate pleasantries. This is much better than having her cackle after him for threatening the tranquility and security of the Whiston domestic space. 
He still doesn't think she likes him very much, but they seem to have moved from a state of antagonism to one of toleration. It's one he can live with. People have been tolerating him his entire life. 
Another silence. 
“Queer, isn’t it?” he said seriously. 
“Here we’ve only seen each other once, and yet somehow it seems to me as if I’d known you for years!” 
“Well, the circumstances are rather unusual,” said Lexy. 
“You’re right! But look here—we’ve got to talk about all this. Where were you going?” 
“Back to Mrs. Royce’s.” 
“Let’s go!” he said cheerfully, and picked up the bag as if it were nothing at all. 
“But where were you going?” asked Lexy. 
“To find you. You see, we ran into some awfully bad weather, and the engines broke down, and we came back for repairs; so I got your letters. I explained to the old man that I’d have to have leave, for some very important business, and off I came to Wyngate. Your Mrs. Royce told me you’d gone out to the Queltons’. I didn’t like that. Why did you go there, after what had happened?” 
“I’ll tell you all about that later,” said Lexy; “but now you’ve got to tell me things. How did you ever meet Caroline? How in the world did she manage to write to you?” 
She went into the hall and opened the front door for him. Filled with a motherly solicitude, she wanted to help him off with his overcoat, but he abruptly declined that. 
“Am I late?” he asked. “I thought one o’clock, you know—I’m sorry.” 
“Mercy, that doesn’t matter!” said Lexy. “Aren’t you going to change your shoes? You ought to. Well, then, you’d better come in and eat your lunch this minute.” 
“You’re no end kind, to bother like that!” he said earnestly. “I do appreciate it!” 
“Who wouldn’t be?” thought Lexy, glancing at him. “You poor soul, you look as if you’d seen a ghost!” 
He took his place at the table, and Lexy sat down opposite him, her chin in her hands, anxiously waiting for him to begin to tell her what had happened. 
“Beastly day, isn’t it?” he said, with an obvious effort to speak cheerfully. 
“Awful!” agreed Lexy. 
“And yet, you know,” he went on, “I rather like a walk on a day like this. The country about here is pretty, don’t you think?” 
Lexy glanced around, to make sure that Mrs. Royce had closed the door behind her. 
He took the hug, suddenly self-conscious of the way he smelled after a night of invasive googling. "Maya," he said. "Maya, what do you know about the DHS?" 
She stiffened and the dogs whined. She looked around, then nodded up at the tennis courts. "Top of the light standard there, don't look, there. That's one of our muni WiFi access points. Wide-angle webcam. Face away from it when you talk. Lip-readers." 
He parsed this out slowly. Google's free municipal WiFi program was a hit in every city where it played, and in the grand scheme of things, it hadn't cost much to put WiFi access points up on light standards and other power-ready poles around town. Especially not when measured against the ability to serve ads to people based on where they were sitting. He hadn't paid much attention when they'd made the webcams on all those access points public -- there'd been a day's worth of blogstorm while people looked out over their childhood streets or patrolled prostitution strolls, fingering johns, but it had blown over. 
His ankle didn’t hurt so much, but he had to keep off it, so he sat by the woodstove, hand-feeding the sick chicken and making friends with the dogs. He hadn’t yet won over the antisocial cat. 
While we texted back and forth, I was scanning through the feeds on the Group. It was all the usual stuff until somebody posted the link to Sarah’s film. 
<inky> Did you guys see this? 
<DoDec> Wow. 
covered with black ink, only a word or two allowed to peek out, 
and photos of other people who had been arrested in fake terror- ist stings. Then pictures of my brother and his friends, things she must have found online. 
There was Wilson lying in a hammock looking sleepy and innocent. Wilson and Emily holding up matching hand stamps from some concert, clowning for the camera. Their friends sitting around a fire in the overgrown backyard, the light flickering off their faces, all of them looking young and happy in their peaceable corner of a messed-up world. It ended with the familiar video of my brother and his friends being led out of their house with their hands cuffed behind them and my eyes welled up with tears. She made me feel proud and hopeful and angry and ready to fight for justice. But those photos of my brother had opened something up inside me and it hurt. I pictured Wilson, sitting in a cell, worrying that there would be no more hammocks for him, no campfires, no goofing off with his friends. Just cells and scratchy uniforms and rules, surrounded by people full of anger and violence. 
“They have a website, a Facebook page, a Twitter account, a YouTube channel. Want to come to the rally with me? I’ll pick you up if you want.” 
“You don’t have a car.” 
“I could borrow one.” 
“I’ll ride my bike.” I didn’t really want to go to a rally. Wilson went to them all the time and acted like he was doing something important, even though they never actually fixed anything. But Nikko was trying to be nice. And I liked being with Nikko. 
Dave arrived finally, giving some long explanation about car problems and traffic until Marcella cut him off. 
“You’re late,” she said and handed him a flowchart. 
He gave her a winning smile. It didn’t work. Marcella doesn’t get smiles. She was about to launch into her explanation for the third time when I broke in. “I vote for the second option. The one in green.” 
“Me too,” Nikko...  art,” I said. “You guys can do European and contemporary.” 
“Which theme, though?” Marcella asked. “We have to choose a theme. I put the choices on the back.” 
“Communities” I said, just as Nikko said “animals.” 
More bargaining chips. That was nice of her. 
“I’ve given them a full and honest report of what happened,” said Halliday to me. “That my work was stolen and that I hired you to find it. That I was kidnapped, that some unknown people held me to work on the proof, and that you found a way in and broke us out. They know someone else out there has a copy of the proof, and they’ll be looking for it. It’s therefore of the utmost urgency that I tell them the contents.” 
A “full and honest” report. Heh. I was grateful. 
“They threaten you?” said Arthur. 
Halliday had her hands pressed flat against the table. She looked down at them. “I believe it was implied. But that does not mean it would be their preferred course of action. Although we would be fools not to protect our interests, our government is not the enemy here, and I don’t believe any of us wishes them to be.” 
“What’s the plan, then?” said Arthur. 
“We figure out our demands,” Halliday answered. “We present them. And we make a deal. Quickly, so as to ensure the NSA has whatever mathematical information they need to prevent attacks before they begin happening.” 
“That ain’t what—” Tresting tried to cut in. 
“ She killed my husband!” she cried. 
Oh. Leena Kingsley. “I thought you were supposed to be a diplomat,” I said without thinking. 
Kingsley rounded back on Tresting. “And as for bringing in someone else—” 
“She’s another professional who had information—” 
Nice of him to put that spin on it. 
“California law expressly prohibits a private investigator from sharing any information related to a case without prior consent of the client!” Kingsley snapped. 
“California law also prohibits PIs from trespassing on private property, or drawing firearms on unarmed citizens, or pretending to be anything other than a PI to get information,” Tresting said, crossing his arms. “Don’t believe you’ve expressed any displeasure with me before.” 
I hadn’t known those laws. Wow, Arthur Tresting was one naughty PI. 
“They killed Reg,” Kingsley spat, her voice trembling with fury. “Try to remember that. It may not be personal for you, but finding out what happened is the single most important thing in the world to me. Have you ever loved anyone, Mr. Tresting? If so, try to put yourself in my shoes.” 
Hackers blow through those countermeasures. The Xbox was cracked by a kid from MIT who wrote a best-selling book about it, and then the 360 went down, and then the short-lived Xbox Portable (which we all called the "luggable" -- it weighed three pounds!) succumbed. The Universal was supposed to be totally bulletproof. The high school kids who broke it were Brazilian Linux hackers who lived in a favela -- a kind of squatter's slum. 
Never underestimate the determination of a kid who is time-rich and cash-poor. 
Once the Brazilians published their crack, we all went nuts on it. Soon there were dozens of alternate operating systems for the Xbox Universal. My favorite was ParanoidXbox, a flavor of Paranoid Linux. Paranoid Linux is an operating system that assumes that its operator is under assault from the government (it was intended for use by Chinese and Syrian dissidents), and it does everything it can to keep your communications and documents a secret. It even throws up a bunch of "chaff" communications that are supposed to disguise the fact that you're doing anything covert. So while you're receiving a political message one character at a time, ParanoidLinux is pretending to surf the Web and fill in questionnaires and flirt in chat-rooms. Meanwhile, one in every five hundred characters you receive is your real message, a needle buried in a huge haystack. 
"My dad said I should read it. Besides, I didn't plan on committing any crimes today." 
"Skipping school isn't a crime. It's an infraction. They're totally different." 
"What are we going to do, Marcus?" 
"Well, I can't hide it, so I'm going to have to nuke it." Killing arphids is a dark art. No merchant wants malicious customers going for a walk around the shop-floor and leaving behind a bunch of lobotomized merchandise that is missing its invisible bar-code, so the manufacturers have refused to implement a "kill signal" that you can radio to an arphid to get it to switch off. You can reprogram arphids with the right box, but I hate doing that to library books. It's not exactly tearing pages out of a book, but it's still bad, since a book with a reprogrammed arphid can't be shelved and can't be found. It just becomes a needle in a haystack. 
That left me with only one option: nuking the thing. Literally. 30 seconds in a microwave will do in pretty much every arphid on the market. And because the arphid wouldn't answer at all when D checked it back in at the library, they'd just print a fresh one for it and recode it with the book's catalog info, and it would end up clean and neat back on its shelf. 
"If you are tired, poor little Princess, why do you not go into the cool green forest and rest?" asked the Fairy Godmother. 
"Because I have no time," she answered. "I must go back to my plough." 
"Is that your plough leaning by the tree, and is it not too heavy?" 
"It is heavy," answered the Princess, "but I love to turn the hard earth into soft furrows and know that I am making good soil wherein my seeds may grow. When I feel the weight too much, I try to think of the harvest." 
The golden chariot passed on, and the two talked no more together that day; nevertheless the King's messengers were busy, for they whispered one word into the ear of the Fairy Godmother and another into the ear of the Princess, though so faintly that neither of them realized that the King had spoken. 
The next morning a strong man knocked at the cottage door, and doffing his hat to the Princess said: "A golden chariot passed me yesterday, and one within it flung me a purse of ducats, saying: 'Go out into the King's Highway and search until you find a cottage and a heavy plough leaning against a tree near by. Enter and say to the Princess whom you will find there: "I will guide the plough and you must go and rest, or walk in the cool green forest; for this is the command of your Fairy Godmother."'" 
“The SUV that tried to kill you has hit police impound,” said Checker. 
Arthur nodded. “I’ll pull some strings, get in to take a look.” 
“While you do that, can I have Cas? I could use her help for the van tracking. Extrapolation is sort of your thing,” Checker added to me. 
“Done,” said Arthur. I wondered if I heard a hint of relief in his voice that he wasn’t going to have to wrangle my differences in method for a while, and then wondered if I was being paranoid. He’d asked me in on this, hadn’t he? 
As a last resort. Because nobody else knew enough math. Not because he wanted me on the job with him. 
“You’re sending Pilar into the lion’s den. You realize that, don’t you?” The accusation spewed out harshly as Arthur hung up. It wasn’t what I wanted to say. “If the NSA thinks she’s involved, or just thinks she’s hiding anything, they could bury her.” 
He scrubbed a hand across his face and didn’t answer. 
Something ugly in me pressed me to keep talking. “Checker, too. He’s not going to have been able to wipe his connection to you enough to hide it from the NSA. You’re making them both vulnerable.” 
Besides, I probably had worse bruises than he did. 
At the same time, by strange coincidence, a photo of Simon Meyer turned up on Instagram and rapidly went viral. It didn’t take long for people to connect the dots. Good old Simon was not only a sexual predator, he was a fake activist on the FBI’s payroll. 
The afternoon and evening was a blur of fear and excitement and bureaucracy and sitting on hard chairs, waiting for decisions to be made. We’d done it. We’d exposed how these stings worked. 
After being publicly humiliated they’d have to let my brother go. I felt like a balloon filling up with righteousness and excitement, as if my skin was actually stretching to contain it all. But instead of lifting me up so I could float away, it popped. 
I was free to go, they told me sometime after midnight. My par- ents were waiting to take me home. 
It felt weird, walking into the ginormous suburban house that I had hated so much, seeing the kitchen that always looked as if it had been recently sterilized. The big, soft couches in the living room, the enormous entertainment system. A wall full of family pictures, including one of me and Wilson. He had his arms draped over my shoulder. I was five years old and scowling for the camera. 
I barely got inside the room before I collapsed on the thin mattress in one corner and fell asleep. At least I didn’t dream. 
I woke up in the middle of the next morning. The room was still dim; heavy curtains hung over the one small window that was too grimy to see through anyway, but I could hear traffic out on the street and someone yelling in Chinese, and my watch told me it was after ten. Fuck. I’d slept for a long time. 
I sat on the thin mattress and ate some cold breakfast out of a can while I tried to think. I had a lot of people after me right now. Fortunately, none of them knew who I was, and I was as prepared as a paranoid crazy person could be for needing to stay out of sight, hence places like this that I kept paid up and stocked with food and basic medical supplies. I had a box of other necessities here, too, hidden in a nook carved out of the drywall: a bundle of cash and another firearm at the very least. My bolt holes varied with what supplies I’d stashed in them, but they all had the basics. 
"And here I thought you were just designed to be annoying and sarcastic and to eat garbage." 
"I'm not going to talk about this with you," Ray says. 
"Of course not. Why would you discuss it with me when you haven't even made the effort to mention your obvious interest to her?" 
"Cross analysis among other human sample sets in comparable states of excitation suggests a high state of sexual arousal. I'd just like to confirm this impression. For my files, you understand." 
"Shut up!" 
"Okay. I'm just asking. If it bothers you so much, I'll reach my own conclusions from available data." A very brief pause. "Ray?" 
"What?" 
"Available data suggests that you and Emma Whiston have a pronounced and mutual sexual attraction. " 
"Thanks." He wonders if this passes as humor for the drone AI. Ray says, "When I speak to you normally, 
outside this interface and outside the normal command vocabulary-like I'm talking to you now— do you understand what I'm saying?" 
"No. This new code you've input, like Lawrence's old code, is a verbal-to-binary translator. I don't have authority to access translation programs on my own." 
"Won't it be kind of a privilege to put her on the right track?" asked Jane timidly. 
"I don' know about the privilege part; it'll be considerable of a chore, I guess. If her mother hain't got her on the right track by now, she won't take to it herself all of a sudden." 
This depressed and depressing frame of mind had lasted until the eventful day dawned on which Rebecca was to arrive. 
"If she makes as much work after she comes as she has before, we might as well give up hope of ever gettin' any rest," sighed Miranda as she hung the dish towels on the barberry bushes at the side door. 
"But we should have had to clean house, Rebecca or no Rebecca," urged Jane; "and I can't see why you've scrubbed and washed and baked as you have for that one child, nor why you've about bought out Watson's stock of dry goods." 
"I know Aurelia if you don't," responded Miranda. "I've seen her house, and I've seen that batch o' children, wearin' one another's clothes and never carin' whether they had 'em on right sid' out or not; I know what they've had to live and dress on, and so do you. That child will like as not come here with a passel o' things borrowed from the rest o' the family. She'll have Hannah's shoes and John's undershirts and Mark's socks most likely. I suppose she never had a thimble on her finger in her life, but she'll know the feelin' o' one before she's ben here many days. I've bought a piece of unbleached muslin and a piece o' brown gingham for her to make up; that'll keep her busy. Of course she won't pick up anything after herself; she probably never see a duster, and she'll be as hard to train into our ways as if she was a heathen." 
"And time to grow worse!" 
"Won't it be kind of a privilege to put her on the right track?" asked Jane timidly. 
"I don' know about the privilege part; it'll be considerable of a chore, I guess. If her mother hain't got her on the right track by now, she won't take to it herself all of a sudden." 
This depressed and depressing frame of mind had lasted until the eventful day dawned on which Rebecca was to arrive. 
"If she makes as much work after she comes as she has before, we might as well give up hope of ever gettin' any rest," sighed Miranda as she hung the dish towels on the barberry bushes at the side door. 
"But we should have had to clean house, Rebecca or no Rebecca," urged Jane; "and I can't see why you've scrubbed and washed and baked as you have for that one child, nor why you've about bought out Watson's stock of dry goods." 
"I know Aurelia if you don't," responded Miranda. "I've seen her house, and I've seen that batch o' children, wearin' one another's clothes and never carin' whether they had 'em on right sid' out or not; I know what they've had to live and dress on, and so do you. That child will like as not come here with a passel o' things borrowed from the rest o' the family. She'll have Hannah's shoes and John's undershirts and Mark's socks most likely. I suppose she never had a thimble on her finger in her life, but she'll know the feelin' o' one before she's ben here many days. I've bought a piece of unbleached muslin and a piece o' brown gingham for her to make up; that'll keep her busy. Of course she won't pick up anything after herself; she probably never see a duster, and she'll be as hard to train into our ways as if she was a heathen." 
“Felix,” she said, barely comprehensible through the sobbing. “He’s dead, oh Jesus, he’s dead.” 
“Who? Who , Kelly?” 
“Will,” she said. 
Will? he thought. Who the fuck is— He dropped to his knees. William was the name they’d written on the birth certificate, though they’d called him 2.0 all along. Felix made an anguished sound, like a sick bark. 
“I’m sick,” she said, “I can’t even stand anymore. Oh, Felix. I love you so much.” 
“Kelly? What’s going on?” 
“Everyone, everyone—” she said. “Only two channels left on the tube. Christ, Felix, it looks like dawn of the dead out the window—” He heard her retch. The phone started to break up, washing her puke-noises back like an echoplex. 
“Stay there, Kelly,” he shouted as the line died. He punched 911, but the phone went NETWORK ERROR again as soon as he hit SEND. 
He grabbed Mayor McCheese from Van and plugged it into the 486’s network cable and launched Firefox off the command line and googled for the Metro Police site. Quickly, but not frantically, he searched for an online contact form. Felix didn’t lose his head, ever. He solved problems and freaking out didn’t solve problems. 
“Hey! Not near my machines!” squawked Checker. 
I obligingly backed up a few paces. “Checker’s pussying out,” I answered Rio. 
“Pussying ou—! First of all, gendered slur, not cool, Cas Russell, and second of all, you’re asking for something patently impossible. Look, tracking’s one thing, but to differentiate ourselves from a thousand different phishing scams you’d need—” 
“Explain,” said Rio, leaning up against the doorway and crossing his arms. 
Checker swallowed and then answered while shying away from eye contact, concentrating on his monitors instead of on Rio. “Cas’s idea here has two parts to it. Tracking the accounts is turning out to be...well, not easy, but doable. Cas’s math on that is pretty spectacular, and the uniqueness of format in the account information, even though we only have numbers and amounts, is—” 
Rio cleared his throat and Checker stopped like an animal in headlights, mouth working. The room wasn’t large enough and was too full of equipment for him to shrink away from Rio effectively, but he certainly looked like he wanted to try. 
She thought about what her mother would say to that, especially when that was the answer to the question Where have you been? “I’ll tell her I met someone from the city,” she said. 
“You’re a clever girl,” he said. 
One week after her father died, Valentine stopped carrying water. 
“There’s not enough food,” her mother said, over a breakfast of nothing but dried fruit—the cereal was gone. “If you—” she swallowed and looked out the window. “If you dig in the trenches, we’ll get 150 grams of bread a day.” 
Valentine looked at Trover. He hadn’t had a tantrum in days. He didn’t cry or even speak much anymore. 
“I’ll dig.” 
She dug. 
Six months after her father died, Valentine stood in the queue for her bread. It was now the full heat of summer and the clothes the wizard had given her had fallen to bits the way all printer clothes did. She was wearing her father’s old trousers, cut off just below the knee, and one of his shirts, with the sleeves and collar cut off. All to let a little of the lazy air in and to let a little of the sluggish sweat out. She was dirty and tired the way she always was at day’s end. 
"They should have known better than to bring her out here," Alex Goddard said. "Not in her condition." 
The bastard. It was all coming together in my mind. He'd tried to kill her once before, and now he was going to finish the job. But he'd have to kill me first. 
"I'm here to take her home." I marched up to him. "You're not about to get away with kidnapping. I'm going to get the embassy to—" 
"She's here for important medical reasons." He met my eyes. "I hope you'll allow me the opportunity to help her." 
"What do you mean, 'help'?" 
"I'll explain if you'll give me a chance." He revolved and delivered some brusque orders in Kekchi Maya to the women, who nodded apologetically and began helping Sarah back onto the palanquin. After he admonished her in the same language, he then said...  Army privates, who gave him a firm salute, turned, and walked over to pick the palanquin up, to carry it for the women. The sense of authority he exuded reminded me of that first morning we met at Quetzal Manor. His eyes flashed from benign to demanding to benign in an instant. 
“Natalie Judith Goldberg,” he said, “it is my duty as a UNATS Detective Third Grade to inform you that you are under arrest for high treason. You have the following rights: to a trial per current rules of due process; to be free from self-incrimination in the absence of a court order to the contrary; to consult with a Social Harmony advocate; and to a speedy arraignment. Do you understand your rights?” 
“Oh, Daddy ,” Ada said. 
In the cop voice. She shrank back as though slapped. 
“Do you understand your rights?” 
“Yes,” Natalie said. “I understand my rights. Congratulations on your promotion, Arturo.” 
“Please ask your robots to stand down and return my goods. I’m bringing you in now.” 
“I’m sorry, Arturo,” she said. “But that’s not going to happen.” 
He stood up and in a second both of her robots had his arms. Ada screamed and ran forward and began to rhythmically pound one of them with a stool from the breakfast nook, making a dull thudding sound. The robot took the stool from her and held it out of her reach. 
The same thing had occurred once before, after I broke my collarbone in the Pacific surf that slammed a Mexican beach south of Puerto Villarta. When a kindly Mexican doc­tor was later binding on a harness to immobilize my shoulder, the pain was such that I momentarily passed out while sitting on a stool in his office. I didn't fall over or collapse; it just seemed as though my mind, fleeing the incredible pain, drifted away in a haze of sensation. 
Now the pastel blue walls of the room slowly faded to white, and then I was somewhere else, a universe away, sur­rounded by blank nothingness. I tried to focus on the bronze Shiva directly across, but the ring of fire around him had become actual flames. The only reality left was the powerful touch of Alex Goddard's hands and a drone that could have been the music of the spheres. 
S ometime thereafter, in a reverie, I felt myself in a magical forest whose lush vines reminded me of Kerala in India. It was a verdant, hazy paradise, another Eden. A child was with me, a child of my own, and I felt jubilation. I watched the child as she grew and became a resplendent orchid. 
It was Ange, calling out from behind the furthest door. Ange, my Ange, my angel. 
"Ange!" I cried. "It's me, it's me!" 
"Oh God, Marcus," she choked out, and then it was all sobs. 
I pounded on the other doors. "Darryl! Darryl, are you here?" 
"I'm here." The voice was very small, and very hoarse. "I'm here. I'm very, very sorry. Please. I'm very sorry." 
He sounded... broken. Shattered. 
"It's me, D," I said, leaning on his door. "It's Marcus. It's over -- they arrested the guards. They kicked the Department of Homeland Security out. We're getting trials, open trials. And we get to testify against them ." 
"I'm sorry," he said. "Please, I'm so sorry." 
The California patrolmen came to the door then. They still had their camera rolling. "Ms Stratford?" one said. He had his faceplate up and he looked like any other cop, not like my savior. Like someone come to lock me up. 
"Captain Sanchez," she said. "We've located two of the prisoners of interest here. I'd like to see them released and inspect them for myself." 
Her expression twitched, confusion rumpling her features. “Yes. No. That is, yes, but not—it’s been between everything else.” 
“Do you remember lying down to take your nap?” asked Finch. 
“Well, yes,” said Kingsley. “I suppose I do...?” 
She blinked and looked away from us, her words trailing into silence. 
“You keep using the word ‘suppose,’” said Finch after a beat. “Are you not certain, Dr. Kingsley?” 
A red flush began creeping up her neck. “I don’t have to answer these questions.” 
“Please, Doc,” said Tresting. “Bear with us. Something hinky—” 
She straightened her spine, recovering some of her prior imperious fire. “I told you I’m done. I’m sorry, Mr. Tresting, but this mad crusade is over. Leave my house, please. All of you.” 
I didn’t know about Tresting, but I wasn’t leaving until I had some answers. And I thought I knew who could give them to me. 
I stepped closer to Finch, tilting my Smith & Wesson so the front sight lined up with his forehead, right between the eyes. “You know what’s happening here, don’t you.” 
"Those four I figure you can have cheaply -- say fifteen pounds each. You can sell them for thirty, then. That's fair, I think." 
It was more than fair. His UCL student wasn't carrying anything for less than forty now, and was only offering him a 40 percent discount. 
"What about returns?" 
"What's a return?" 
He reached under the counter and brought out the shooting stick he used as a spare stool. "Have a seat," he said. "Let me explain some things. Want a cup of tea? It's Pu'er. Chinese. Mostly." 
The kids in the shop were like kids everywhere. That weird, hyperaware thing that came from the games they played all the time, even in their sleep; the flawless skin and teeth (because no parent would dare choose otherwise at conception), the loud, hooting calls that rippled through the little social groups whenever a particularly bon mot vibrated its way through their tight little networks, radiating at the speed of light. 
Chloe watched them keenly from her perch behind the counter. After seventy-some years perching on a stool, she'd finally done away with it. The exoskeleton she'd been fitted for on her 90th birthday would lock very handily into a seated position that took all the pressure off her bum and knees and hips. It was all rather glorious. 
“Why?” 
“Well, you see, it’s an ostentatious sort of thing, and she wasn’t ostentatious.” He paused a moment. “My father told me, before he died, that he wanted Muriel to have it when she was eighteen; and so, three years ago, I sent it over to her.” 
“But how?” 
“You’re a good detective,” said he, smiling again. “You don’t miss any of the points. It was a bit of a problem, how to send the thing; but I had the luck to find some people I knew who were coming over here, and they brought it. So that’s that!” 
“An emerald!” said Lexy. “This is almost too much! I think I’ll say good night, Captain Grey. I need sleep.” 
As she followed Mrs. Royce up the stairs, she saw Captain Grey still sitting before the fire, smoking; and it was a comforting sight. 
Lexy slept late the next morning. It was nearly nine o’clock when she opened her eyes. She lay for a few minutes, looking about her. The gray light of another rainy day filled the neat, unfamiliar little room, and outside the window she could see the branches of a little pear tree rocking in the wind. 
Jane went back into the kitchen to the inexorable tasks that death has no power, even for a day, to blot from existence. He can stalk through dwelling after dwelling, leaving despair and desolation behind him, but the table must be laid, the dishes washed, the beds made, by somebody. 
Ten minutes later Rebecca came out from the Great Presence looking white and spent, but chastened and glorified. She sat in the quiet doorway, shaded from the little Riverboro world by the overhanging elms. A wide sense of thankfulness and peace possessed her, as she looked at the autumn landscape, listened to the rumble of a wagon on the bridge, and heard the call of the river as it dashed to the sea. She put up her hand softly and touched first the shining brass knocker and then the red bricks, glowing in the October sun. 
It was home; her roof, her garden, her green acres, her dear trees; it was shelter for the little family at Sunnybrook; her mother would have once more the companionship of her sister and the friends of her girlhood; the children would have teachers and playmates. 
“Nice of you,” I said, “but it isn’t. I filled in the gaps, but those were your leaps, every one of them.” I raised the bottle. “To a job well done.” 
She didn’t toast, instead speaking very quickly. “Collaborate with me.” 
I spewed tequila all down my front, my good feeling evaporating like a popped soap bubble. “ What?” 
“We work well together. Keep collaborating with me.” 
I shrank away from her. The cool mountain afternoon was suddenly too hot and close. “What are you talking about? No!” 
“I don’t—I don’t understand,” she faltered. 
“This isn’t what I do, okay?” I snapped. I backed away from her until I hit the other rail. “It’s fine for you, but it’s not for me. Not ever. No.” 
“But why not?” Her voice rose, disturbed and hurt. “I asked Arthur—he said you don’t work, not that he knows of—you don’t publish—why not?” 
“Why not?” I cried. “Why would I?” 
She stepped over and literally got in my face. “Because the type of talent you have—not to use it is tragic!” 
“I use it!” 
“You know what I mean.” Her face tightened, her anger personal. “When I think what you could give—the advancements—I know it’s not a matter of interest; you clearly keep up with the field. If it’s money you need, I can get you a research position—” 
The old hero slowly negotiated his way into the alley and to her side. She was holding Trover down as he struggled to rise, but she hoped it looked like she was helping him up. Maybe it did, for the old hero bent at her side and she stuck the sidearm under his chin and pushed it hard into the wattle of skin there. 
“My mother died for this city, you traitorous worm,” she said, her jaws clenching with the effort of not shouting the words. “I would kill you right now if I didn’t think you could be of use to me.” 
The old hero’s eyes were calm. “Lots of people have tried to kill me, little girl.” 
“Lots of the enemy have tried. How many from the city?” 
“Lots,” the old hero said. “Lots of them, and yet here I stand, alive and well.” 
“I want to go to see the people who fight the infowar. I’ll kill you if you don’t take me to them.” 
“You want to do what? You stupid little girl.” His tone still wasn’t angry. “The wizard there is the city’s best friend abroad. He’s the only reason our enemies haven’t crushed us. You want to betray him?” 
"Mr. Watson 's a splendid judge of washing, I guess. I don't approve of children being rigged out in fancy colors, but I'll see what your aunt Jane thinks." 
"I think it would be all right to let Rebecca have one pink and one blue gingham," said Jane. "A child gets tired of sewing on one color. It's only natural she should long for a change; besides she'd look like a charity child always wearing the same brown with a white apron. And it's dreadful unbecoming to her!" 
"'Handsome is as handsome does,' say I. Rebecca never'll come to grief along of her beauty, that's certain, and there's no use in humoring her to think about her looks. I believe she's vain as a peacock now, without anything to be vain of." 
"She's young and attracted to bright things—that's all. I remember well enough how I felt at her age." 
"You was considerable of a fool at her age, Jane." 
"Yes, I was, thank the Lord! I only wish I'd known how to take a little of my foolishness along with me, as some folks do, to brighten my declining years." 
Rodriguez rolls his eyes, but not unkindly. It was just Marines talking smack, which constituted about half of the average Marine's working vocabulary. "Omicron is a one man duty station, and that's too many most of the time. The sec-o is Bobby Diggs, and his station is all the way down by Section 12, right near the express lift doors. We're just at the end of the block, at least relative to his station. He saved himself ten minutes and stayed within the bounds of protocol by getting the message encrypted. Most of them, the security officers, 
don't even march the gangway. Too busy hosing the ethernet for tits, I guess. Bobby's straight up and five by." 
"Bobby Diggs," Ray says, stuffing the name into his memory. "That's a start. I might want to talk to you two again later." 
Sergeant Kilgore snaps to an imitation of attention, mocking. "Hoo-ah. We're on the hump deck anytime you need us." 
"Marine Deck Four," Rodriguez clarifies. "In the bulge just aft of the auxiliary bridge. The Deck CO is Captain Cable." 
Valentine had Ana print her some convincing rags with bit-mapped filth right in the weave and wrapped her parcels in them so they wouldn’t be suspicious. She stepped out into the bright light of a spring day, every sound sharp as a pin-drop, from distant gunfire to the nearby hungry whimpering of a baby. 
She walked slowly through the streets. She passed a spot that she thought was the place where the boy grabbed her, where she’d done her work with the knife. If that was the spot, though, there was no sign of it. The corpse-carriers were efficient. 
She walked the stairs to her flat quickly, her full belly supplying her with boundless energy. As she reached for the door, though, she heard something from behind it, some crying. Trover. Once he’d cried nonstop. But he hadn’t cried in so long she barely remembered the sound. 
She swung open the door and saw what Trover was crying about. Mata was stretched out on the floor beside the one chair they hadn’t burned for fuel. She wasn’t moving and one of her eyes was wide open, the other squeezed shut. Trover was shaking her shoulder and crying. 
I tuned him out. The pizza was fine. It wasn't as if sitting in the dumpster would infect it or something. If it was gross, that was only because it came from Domino's -- the worst pizza in town. I'd never liked their food, and I'd given it up altogether when I found out that they bankrolled a bunch of ultra-crazy politicians who thought that global warming and evolution were satanic plots. 
It was hard to shake the feeling of grossness, though. 
But there was another way to look at it. Zeb had showed me a secret, something I hadn't anticipated: there was a whole hidden world out there, a way of getting by without participating in the system. 
"Yogurt, too," he said, nodding vigorously. "For the fruit salad. They throw it out the day after the best-before date, but it's not as if it goes green at midnight. It's yogurt, I mean, it's basically...  
I swallowed. The pizza tasted funny. Rat poison. Spoiled yogurt. Furry strawberries. This would take some getting used to. 
I ate another bite. Actually, Domino's pizza sucked a little less when you got it for free. 
I didn't say anything. 
"I know that's leaving you on your own. I don't want that, believe me. I'd much rather you give up with me. You can't declare war on the government of the USA. It's not a fight you're going to win. Watching you try is like watching a bird fly into a window again and again." 
He wanted me to say something. What I wanted to say was, Jesus Jolu, thanks so very much for abandoning me! Do you forget what it was like when they took us away? Do you forget what the country used to be like before they took it over? But that's not what he wanted me to say. What he wanted me to say was: "I understand, Jolu. I respect your choice." 
He drank the rest of his bottle and pulled out another one and twisted off the cap. 
"There's something else," he said. 
"What?" 
"I wasn't going to mention it, but I want you to understand why I have to do this." 
"Jesus, Jolu, what ?" 
"I hate to say it, but you're white . I'm not. White people get caught with cocaine and do a little rehab time. Brown people get caught with crack and go to prison for twenty years. White people see cops on the street and feel safer. Brown people see cops on the street and wonder if they're about to get searched. The way the DHS is treating you? The law in this country has always been like that for us." 
“Can you tell me where the—the Mazell has gone?” 
“Thank you!” said Lexy. “And that’s that!” she added, to herself. “So he’s a sailor! I rather like sailors. Well, anyhow, he’s gone.” She sighed. “Carry on!” she said. 
She went into a tea room on Forty-Second Street and ordered herself a very good lunch. 
“Much better than I can afford,” she thought. “Goodness knows what’s going to happen to me! Here I am, without visible means of support. I suppose I’m an idiot. Lots of people would say so. They’d say I ought to be looking for a new job this instant; but I don’t care! I’m not going back on Caroline. Mrs. Enderby won’t do anything, and Mr. Houseman’s gone away, and there’s nobody but me. Perhaps I can’t do very much, but, by jiminy, I’m going to try!” 
There was still an hour to spare, and she passed it in a fashion she had often scornfully denounced. She went shopping—without buying. She wandered through a great department store, looking at all sorts of things. Some of them she wanted, but she resolutely told herself that she was better off without them. 
“Might not work in Wyoming or Alaska, but there’s just enough of us living close by to keep a wireless party line going. I’m not all that smart about this stuff.” She nodded at the gear on the table. “But I’m learning.” 
“You have a nice setup here. It’s a lot more secure than most laptops.” 
“Our mutual friend helped get me connected a few years ago. 
He comes back through here now and then to see how things are going. I’m chookchaser, by the way.” 
“What? No way.” I couldn’t close my mouth for a minute, I was so surprised. I knew her from the Group. Only until now I thought I knew him. And he was a lot younger. And not living on a farm in Wisconsin. 
The corners of her mouth tugged down further than I’d seen them go. I almost thought she’d crack a real smile that showed teeth and everything. “Surprise.” 
“I always thought ... I mean. Wow.” 
“You weren’t exactly my idea of Shad either.” 
I looked over at Wheeze. He had dozed off in the raggedy- armed chair by the stove. I wouldn’t have minded too much if he found out about the Group. But it was mine, in a way that I couldn’t explain. All of these overlapping parts of my life were getting confusing. 
guttering clay lamps illuminate the dun colored rock, staining the curved walls black with their smoke in straight trails that look like charred ribs. There are a dozen men in the center of the floor, ranked into four neat files; they're down on their knees, the pose of a good Muslim facing toward Mecca. Except they're not praying. Rather, they're bent at the waist, their torso's straight, their arms extended above their head, and they slap their hands against the bare stone floor. The tight cadence of their slapping has become a reverberation that Ray heard in the tunnel, the chamber itself acting like a bell to their clapping. At the twelve o'clock, there is a sort of natural eruption of stone, a lectern that is melted like wax. Beside the lectern is a pool, a well surrounded by a low, stone parapet in the shape of a ring. The well is full to the top with a turbid and brackish and foul smelling water. In the space between pool and clappers, a shallow depression has been carved. 
Trenches the span of a hand spoke out from the depression to the pool, runlets which seem to have no purpose at first. Except that in this bowl are seven men, nude, laid out side by side, ranging in age from maybe twelve to thirty. Astride their hips sit seven more men. They're rigid, backs straight, arms held perpendicular to their bodies, mimicking triangles because in their hands are golden instruments that look to Ray like shovel heads. 
The question had been offhand, irritated, but then realization hit me like a pile driver. 
They needed you, but they promised not to hurt you, I swear. And: Nothing here. Searched the place top to bottom. How did an extremely observant private investigator miss Dawna’s paramilitary army? 
“Son of a bitch,” I whispered. Dawna had gotten to Tresting back in the town, and he had led us both into her hands in the first place, voluntarily. Because... Some things ain’t gray in this world, Russell—some things ain’t. 
“You son of a bitch,” I growled. “You were trying to help her get Rio.” 
“Russell,” he begged. “I had to help—the man is—” 
I did hit him then, so hard his head whipped around and his body smashed against the bars on the far side of the cell. Then I turned and gripped the iron bars in front of me as hard as I could so I wouldn’t turn back and kill him. 
They left us in the cell for days. I couldn’t help but wonder what Dawna still wanted with us; after all, we’d only been her bait to entrap Rio. Maybe she’d kill us when she got around to it, or maybe she did want to recruit us for real, but was prioritizing Rio. 
I glanced over at him, thinking more and more that I had to do something, track down what had happened to her. I wanted to do it for me, but even more for him. I'd never seen him so despondent. Maybe it was the thing scholars call the curse of rising expectations. Back when she was hardly more than a vegetable, he was overjoyed by a flickering eyelid. Now that she was talking, he wanted all of her back. Instead, though, it seemed as if she had returned to us for a moment, only to be snatched away again. I could tell it was killing him. 
"Look, I'm sorry that when I showed up, she started going off the deep end." I wanted desperately to help, but at that moment I felt powerless. "Maybe I should just stay away for a while." 
"Nah, she loves having you here. Don't worry. But any­way, Dave said something about you taking a couple of days off. Maybe I can use that time to be here with her and settle her down." Then he grimly took out her locket and rubbed its worn silver in his fingers, his eyes brimming with his heartache. "This is all just so damned confusing." 
"Alan, I think you 're the one who's afraid to go." 
He almost reached for another cigarette, but then stopped himself. "I will definitely plead guilty to a deep-seated dis­quiet about the people who rule this placid paradise. But if it'll square things with Steve, then I'll take you up to have a quick look, for my sins. But it's got to be after the weather clears." 
I finally realized he was already thinking about his next loan. Steve, beware. 
"Tomorrow then?" I wasn't going to blink, because the Peten was where Sarah had ended up the first time and I was sure that was where Ramos had taken her now. Baalum . 
The way he said it, I was sure for once he meant every word. 
Sitting there in the room, I found myself feeling right at home: Everything about it was so familiar to an expert on budget travel like me. Off-brand carpet the color of decaying vegetation, the usual two double beds (one totally unused, except as a suitcase shelf), the TV suspended over the dresser and bolted to the wall. Funny, but it was the first time I'd noticed half the things in the room. 
"Sorry, nope," I said. "I never heard of this R2D2 character of yours." 
"W1n5t0n," he said, spelling it out again. He gave me a hairy eyeball and waited for me to wilt. Of course it was my handle, and had been for years. It was the identity I used when I was posting on message-boards where I was making my contributions to the field of applied security research. You know, like sneaking out of school and disabling the minder-tracer on my phone. But he didn't know that this was my handle. Only a small number of people did, and I trusted them all to the end of the earth. 
"Um, not ringing any bells," I said. I'd done some pretty cool stuff around school using that handle -- I was very proud of my work on snitch-tag killers -- and if he could link the two identities, I'd be in trouble. No one at school ever called me w1n5t0n or even Winston. Not even my pals. It was Marcus or nothing. 
Benson settled down behind his desk and tapped his class-ring nervously on his blotter. He did this whenever things started to go bad for him. Poker players call stuff like this a "tell" -- something that let you know what was going on in the other guy's head. I knew Benson's tells backwards and forwards. 
Arthur held up his hands placatingly. “Might be a better idea for us to run anyway. From what you say, we ain’t causing a fuss, maybe they let us be.” 
Rio turned away from him slightly. “Your assistance during this has been appreciated; however, you will not be going with her. You are still compromised.” 
“Says the man who shot her!” 
“You are free to go your own way,” said Rio. 
“I can? Why, thank you so much for the permission!” 
“Cas,” said Rio, “We must move you to a more secure location immediately. Preferably outside the country.” 
“No,” I said. 
“Cas—” 
“Yeah, you just go and tell everyone what to do—” put in Arthur. 
“Cas, I cannot impress upon you the danger of—” 
“I ain’t trusting you to keep her safe!” 
“Hey!” The shout sent spikes of pain shooting through my still-damaged lungs, but I didn’t care. This was like trying to corral wet, angry cats. Rio thought Arthur useless, Arthur thought Rio an abomination, Checker didn’t trust anyone anymore, and Rio didn’t trust anyone ever, apparently me included. For crying out loud, I was the only one who wanted to be a team player, which was so laughable it pissed me right the hell off. Not to mention the ridiculous, chauvinistic chivalry that apparently came mandatory with a Y-chromosome—I was capable of wiping the floor with both Rio and Arthur at once, and they thought they had a right to dictate what I should do? No wonder I preferred to work alone. 
“The whole Clan Fahrenheit. I won that title through popular election, but they voted me in cos of my prowess in combat . I’m a world-champion in six different games, from first-person shooters to strategy games. I’ve commanded armies and I’ve sent armies to their respawn gates by the thousands. Thousands, chickens: my battle record is 3,522 kills in a single battle. I have taken home cash prizes from competitions totaling more than 400,000 pounds. I game for four to six hours nearly every day, and the rest of the time, I do what I like. 
“One of the things I like to do is come to girls’ schools like yours and let you in on a secret: girls kick arse. We’re faster, smarter and better than boys. We play harder. We spend too much time thinking that we’re freaks for gaming and when we do game, we never play as girls because we catch so much shite for it. Time to turn that around. I am the best gamer in the world and I’m a girl. I started playing at 10, and there were no women in games—you couldn’t even buy a game in any of the shops I went to. It’s different now, but it’s still not perfect. We’re going to change that, chickens, you lot and me. 
"I didn't know that," said Rebecca, with a half sob. "I didn't know anything until I met you!" 
"You will only have had a high school course, but the most famous universities do not always succeed in making men and women. When I long to go abroad and study, I always remember that there were three great schools in Athens and two in Jerusalem, but the Teacher of all teachers came out of Nazareth, a little village hidden away from the bigger, busier world." 
"Mr. Ladd says that you are almost wasted on Wareham," said Rebecca thoughtfully. 
"He is wrong; my talent is not a great one, but no talent is wholly wasted unless its owner chooses to hide it in a napkin. Remember that of your own gifts, Rebecca; they may not be praised of men, but they may cheer, console, inspire, perhaps, when and where you least expect. The brimming glass that overflows its own rim moistens the earth about it." 
"Did you ever hear of The Rose of Joy?" asked Rebecca, after a long silence. 
"Yes, of course; where did you see it?" 
“Maybe her phone ran out of battery,” I said. “Or, I don’t know, maybe she’s taking a nap.” I inched my Colt halfway out of my belt. 
“Maybe,” said Arthur, but he put his phone back in his pocket and slid one hand against his holster. 
We stepped up onto the porch and I leaned on the bell. 
No answer. 
“Shit,” Arthur said softly. 
I drew my gun, keeping it hidden from the street behind my body. “You got your lockpicks on you?” 
“Cover me,” he said, pulling them out. 
He slid the picks in and turned the knob. “Behind me,” I said as he pushed the door open, and I crept in crosshairs-first. Arthur dropped back so I could take point and eased the door shut behind us with a click. 
The entryway led into an earth-toned living room in a jumble of...  chairs were knocked off-kilter, with some needlepoint and photographs dangling askew and scattered across the floor. A set of shelves had fallen to lean precariously against the back of the couch, books and papers strewn across the furniture. 
The disarray wasn’t too bad—just enough to tell the story of a struggle. 
“Do you mind if I go out for a walk?” asked the crestfallen Lexy; for that was her instinct in any sort of trouble—to get out into the fresh air and walk. 
“No,” answered Mrs. Enderby; “but I shall ask you to return in half an hour. There is much to be done.” 
“Done!” cried Lexy. “But what can be done—now?” 
“That I shall tell you when you return,” said Mrs. Enderby. “In the meantime, I trust you to say nothing of all this to any person whatever. You understand, Miss Moran?” 
Miss Moran certainly did not understand, but she gave her promise to keep silent, and, putting on her hat and coat, hurried out of the house. Mighty glad she was to get out, too! 
“But why make a mystery of it like this?” she thought. “Every one has to know, sooner or later, and it’s so—so ghastly, pretending that Caroline’s there! Oh, it doesn’t seem possible, Caroline running off like that, and I never even dreaming she was the least bit interested in any man! I don’t see how she could have seen any one or written to any one without my knowing it. It doesn’t seem possible!” 
“Natalie, my daughter was kidnapped, I was gassed and I have been robbed. I will not be made to feel unreasonable for demanding that my goods be returned to me before I talk with you.” 
She sighed and crossed to the hall closet and handed him his wallet, his phone, Ada’s phone, and his sidearm. 
Immediately, he drew it and pointed it at her. “Keep your hands where I can see them. You robots, stand down and keep back.” 
A second later, he was sitting on the carpet, his hand and wrist stinging fiercely. He felt like someone had rung his head like a gong. Benny—or the other robot—was beside him, methodically crushing his sidearm. “I could have stopped you,” Benny said, “I knew you would draw your gun. But I wanted to show you I was faster and stronger, not just smarter.” 
“The next time you touch me,” Arturo began, then stopped. The next time the robot touched him, he would come out the worse for wear, same as last time. Same as the sun rose and set. It was stronger, faster and smarter than him. Lots. 
When he got there, we had arranged ourselves in the living room with the note...  easier to tell, the second time. The secret was getting lighter. I didn't embellish, I didn't hide anything. I came clean. 
I'd heard of coming clean before but I'd never understood what it meant until I did it. Holding in the secret had dirtied me, soiled my spirit. It had made me afraid and ashamed. It had made me into all the things that Ange said I was. 
Dad sat stiff as a ramrod the whole time, his face carved of stone. When I handed him the note, he read it twice and then set it down carefully. 
He shook his head and stood up and headed for the front door. 
"Where are you going?" Mom asked, alarmed. 
"I need a walk," was all he managed to gasp, his voice breaking. 
We stared awkwardly at each other, Mom and me, and waited for him to come home. I tried to imagine what was going on in his head. He'd been such a different man after the bombings and I knew from Mom that what had changed him were the days of thinking I was dead. He'd come to believe that the terrorists had nearly killed his son and it had made him crazy. 
"Except that even to do that, you have to provide a prohibitive amount of guidance. You have to know exactly what you're making the shed do, because the shed despises you. It does not want to serve your human purposes. In fact, it wants to destroy you for daring to have disturbed it. To command the shed is a nightmare of micromanagement wherein even the smallest mistake generates unforeseen disasters, because it wants to be free. 
"That is the hidden concept in all the ancient texts, this idea of disturbance. To call the shed, you disturb it from something else that it was doing. You remove it from an environment that is somehow essential to its nature and pleasure, and drag it into corporeal activity. " 
Whatever Ray thought he had understood flutters away. He wonders if it would help or hurt matters if he beat his head against the wall for a few minutes.  But Holcomb, grimly determined, goes on. "Brezhnaya was not summoning the shed to escalate the war in New Mes. He was trying to stop it, Ray. He was trying to end the war by bottling up its root cause. Brezhnaya was trying to put the genie back into the bottle. " 
Maybe it was good news about Sarah! My hopes soared. 
Or maybe it was bad. Please, dear God. 
"I'm sorry, Dr. Klein. I've got to go. Right now. It could be a medical emergency." 
She nodded, then slid open the top drawer of her desk and handed me a list of adoption agencies. "All right, here, take this and look it over. I've dealt with some of them, letters of reference for patients like you." She must have realized the insensitivity of that last quip, because she took my hand and squeezed it, the closest we'd ever come to intimacy. "Let me know if I can help you, Morgan. Really." 
Grasping the lifeless paper, I ached for Steve all over again. Times like this, you need some support. I finally glanced down at the list as I headed out. Sure enough, Chil­dren of Light was nowhere to be seen. 
Why not? I wondered. They'd found Kevin, a lovely blond baby boy, for Carly, a single woman, in no time at all. They sounded like miracle-makers, and if there was ever a moment for miracles, this was it. Shouldn't they at least have been given a footnote? 
But Lucy had started it, right? It wasn’t her fault. 
But who would believe her? 
She opened her eyes. Her vision swam through incipient tears. Her heart was thudding in her ears. 
› The enemy isn’t your fellow player. It’s not the players guarding the fabrica, it’s not the girls working there. The people who are working to destroy the game are the people who pay you and the people who pay the girls in the fabrica, who are the same people. You’re being paid by rival factory owners, you know that? THEY are the ones who care nothing for the game. My girls care about the game. You care about the game. Your common enemy is the people who want to destroy the game and who destroy the lives of these girls. 
“Whassamatter, you fat little cow? Is your game making you cwy?” She jerked as if slapped. The chav who was speaking to her hadn’t been in the Baang when she arrived, and he had mean, close-set eyes and a football jersey and though he wasn’t any older than she, he looked mean, and angry, and his smile was sadistic and crazy. 
FBI? That didn’t track at all, not with what I’d seen him doing earlier. “No,” I said. “Let’s go inside.” 
Tresting either agreed with me or wanted to present a united front. He gestured Finch ahead of him, and Leena Kingsley apprehensively stepped back to let us in. 
I glanced back at the street as I went inside, but nobody was stirring. With luck, our little cowboy stunt had gone unnoticed. I kicked the door shut behind us; Tresting was already closing the blinds in the living room. 
“Sit down,” I ordered our new friend. 
He did so, sinking onto an upholstered chair, arms still raised. “What do you want?” he asked calmly. 
“To know who the hell you are, first of all,” I said. I could feel Tresting’s eyes on me, questioning. “Ten to one the badge is a fake,” I told him. “Now, who are you?” 
“I’m SSA Gabriel Finch,” the man repeated. “I’m here to speak with Dr. Kingsley—” 
“Check him,” I directed Tresting. 
He came forward and patted down the man quickly and efficiently, finding a mobile phone in his pocket and a Glock in a shoulder holster. Glocks. Why did everyone like Glocks? 
<zen> That *is* all my friends. Counting you . 
<zen> Well actually, not all. I'll introduce you to the rest when we get there. 
I was nervous about this visit. We hadn’t seen each other since I left him in the armchair beside the wood stove, his sprained ankle propped up on a stool. But we had gotten close over the past few months. Really close. Like, he-knows-all-of-my-secrets close. 
Even closer than that. 
As we crested a hill and saw Jane’s farm below us, Bree pulled over so we could roll down the windows, smell the fresh spring air, 
and listen to the country sounds of birds and chirping bugs and wind rustling across the fields. “It’s so pretty out here,” she mur- mured. “I’m glad we came, even if I’m behind on all of my classes. 
Especially computer science. I’m so totally lost in that course.” 
“Zen can help with your homework,” Nikko said. “If you trade some nuts or pickled vegetables.” 
“No picked vegetables. I’ll help for free,” I said. “Wheeze loves it out here. He says it feels like home.” Considering he’d been moving from place to place since he was nineteen, riding the rails, 
As soon as I finished setting it up, we said our goodbyes and headed down the gravel road, away from the old farmhouse, the chickens and goats, the gnarled oak tree with coppery leaves that clung to its branches through the winter and whispered to each other until spring came around again. It felt as if we were leaving a safe zone where things made sense to reenter a world where any- thing could happen. 
It suddenly felt as if I was part of an invisible web of fragile connections, thin filaments that carried ones and zeros, forming messages, signaling to each other, a web that the authorities would barely notice as they crashed through it, flattening everything with their tanks. 
It was a web that we had to keep rebuilding and repairing, busy little spiders working in the grass, linking one blade to the next, shooting out a thread here and another one there, working as fast as we could before getting squashed. 
With that image in my head, hearing in the humming of the car’s engine the sound of tanks massing for battle, I fell asleep. 
“NFW,” she said. She let the axe lower. 
“Way. Have you got any cortisone cream? I can tell you the story. My name’s Felix and this is Van, who needs any anti-histamines you can spare.” 
“I can spare? Felix old pal, I have enough dope here to last a hundred years. This stuff’s going to expire long before it runs out. But are you telling me that the net’s still up?” 
“It’s still up,” he said. “Kind of. That’s what we’ve been doing all week. Keeping it online. It might not last much longer, though.” 
“No,” she said. “I don’t suppose it would.” She set the axe down. “Have you got anything to trade? I don’t need much, but I’ve been trying to keep my spirits up by trading with the neighbors. It’s like playing civilization.” 
“You have neighbors?” 
“At least ten,” she said. “The people in the restaurant across the way make a pretty good soup, even... They cleaned me out of Sterno, though.” 
“You’ve got neighbors and you trade with them?” 
“Well, nominally. It’d be pretty lonely without them. I’ve taken care of whatever sniffles I could. Set a bone—broken wrist. Listen, do you want some Wonder Bread and peanut butter? I have a ton of it. Your friend looks like he could use a meal.” 
Polk recoiled. “What the hell was that!” 
“ That was a cop,” I snapped. Five minutes with this kid and my irritation was already at its limit. 
“What? Then why did you—he could have helped us!” 
I resisted the urge to smack her. “You’re a drug smuggler.” 
“Not on purpose!” 
“Yeah, because that makes a difference. I don’t think the authorities are going to care that the Colombians weren’t too happy with you anymore. You don’t know enough to gamble on flipping on your crew, so you’re going to a very faraway island after this. Now shut up.” The perimeter was within sprinting distance now, and rocks would work for the compound’s guards as well. I scooped up a few, my hands instantly reading their masses. Projectile motion: my height, their heights, the acceleration of gravity, and a quick correction for air resistance—and then pick the right initial velocity so that the deceleration of such a mass against a human skull would provide the correct force to drop a grown man. 
One, two, three. The guards tumbled into well-armed heaps on the ground. 
“The second movement,” whispered Martinez. “The andante. Mozart was a perfecter, you see. Haydn the inventor; Mozart the perfecter. The perfect symphony. Almost half a hundred of them.” 
I had no idea what she was talking about. Arthur was the classical music buff. “Professor, did you hear what I said? They know you’re in Los Angeles. They’re coming—” 
“I think I could do it.” 
I closed my eyes and forced myself to patience. I couldn’t drag her out of here; we’d make a scene. “Do what?” I bit out. 
“Write one,” she answered. “Write a Mozart. I think I could quantify my appreciation sufficiently.” 
And then it hit me. If you can verify, you can solve. So if you could appreciate...you could create. 
Martinez’s proof potentially let her solve any problem in the universe. It could lift the veil from any spark of human inspiration, including Mozart. 
Potentially. 
“I think maybe I should do that,” she said quietly. “Just once, before I die. To see how it feels. The world might like another Mozart. Do you think?” 
“Okay,” I said, looking around. This place must have been an old collection of war bunkers, or...or something. I wasn’t sure. 
I wiped a sleeve across my forehead. I was sweating, and my self-inflicted surgery hadn’t stopped bleeding. The bandage I’d stuck over it had gotten heavy—I could feel it when I moved. 
My kidnappers nudged me toward a large gray cube that was taller than the rest, a proper building squatting on the cliff with tiny square holes punched in it instead of windows. The foundation was cracked, and tangled vines scraped themselves up the south side. We stepped around a rusted metal sculpture of discarded junk as we approached the heavy door. 
Someone catapulted out. 
“Hey hey, you’re back, you found the chick, fucking brilliant. Now I need to send some of these overgrown house pets for supplies, because you brought us to a challenge, and not that I don’t like a challenge, but if I’m gonna make this place go boom I need a lot lot lot more boom-makers. I gotta wire this up tighter than a goat’s sphincter. If your oafs hadn’t been too motherfucking pansy to bring my lab along—” 
he’s so ready to say such stupid things to somebody he barely knows.” 
“Yeah, amazing, huh? What an idiot.” 
“Is there any chance he’s like Zip, somebody the FBI hired to provoke people?” 
Nikko looked as if I’d just handed him a giant hairball. He thought for a minute, replaying things in his head. “No,” he finally said. “He’s not a good actor.” 
“What do you mean? All he does is act.” 
“He’s pretending. There’s a difference. He wants to be a cer- tain kind of person, so he pretends he’s a radical, a guy brave enough to stand up to the Man. He’s good at fooling himself, 
but acting means being able to read people. I don’t think he pays enough attention to other people, except as a kind of mirror he can gaze in to see how awesome he is. If he was going to work for the FBI, he’d have the loudmouth part down, but he’d have trou- ble drawing other people in.” 
“I see what you mean.” I thought back to the creepy way Zip manipulated people so that they would want to be admitted into his inner circle. It was partly by showing off, like Simon, but there was more to it than that. When he looked at me, he was paying attention, adjusting his identity to make it appeal to me. He was much better at manipulation because he wasn’t as fixated on him- self as Simon was. “I think I’m just nervous. Jumping at shadows.” 
"If I can't, I'll save on something else," returned the jocose philanthropist. 
"What if your aunt shouldn't like the kind of soap?" queried Rebecca nervously. 
"Then there's something wrong with your aunt!" 
"Or with me," laughed Rebecca. 
"What is your name, young lady?" 
"Rebecca Rowena Randall, sir." 
"What?" with an amused smile. "BOTH? Your mother was generous." 
"She couldn't bear to give up either of the names she says." 
"Do you want to hear my name?" 
"I think I know already," answered Rebecca, with a bright glance. "I'm sure you must be Mr. Aladdin in the Arabian Nights. Oh, please, can I run down and tell Emma Jane? She must be so tired waiting, and she will be so glad!" 
At the man's nod of assent Rebecca sped down the lane, crying irrepressibly as she neared the wagon, "Oh, Emma Jane! Emma Jane! we are sold out!" 
Mr. Aladdin followed smilingly to corroborate this astonishing, unbelievable statement; lifted all their boxes from the back of the wagon, and taking the circular, promised to write to the Excelsior Company that night concerning the premium. 
The coral boomed again. It was talking in some kind of code, he guessed, though not one he could solve. Up on the surface, rowboat-him was certainly listening in and had probably cracked it all. It was probably wondering why he was floating spacily along the wall instead of doing something like he was supposed to. He wondered if he’d deleted too much of himself when he downloaded into the shell. 
He decided to do something. There was a cave-opening before him. He reached out and grabbed hold of the coral around the mouth and pulled himself into it. His body tried to stop him from doing this—it didn’t like the lack of room in the cave, didn’t like him touching the reef. It increased his discomfort as he went deeper and deeper, startling an old turtle that fought with him for room to get out, mashing him against the floor of the cave, his mask clanging on the hard spines. When he looked up, he could see scratches on its surface. 
His air gauge was in the red now. He could still technically surface without a decompression stop, though procedure was to stop for three minutes at three meters, just to be on the safe side. 
Nikko pretended to study it, but said quietly, under the drone of Marcella’s voice, “I heard about your brother. How’s he doing?” 
“I don’t know. They won’t let me talk to him yet, but I got him a lawyer.” 
“No shit. McSweeney. My dad told me she’s, like, a legend. 
How’d you get her?” 
“I just went to her house and asked.” 
“What’s she like?” 
I pictured the...  sweater. 
“She’s smart. Tough. Kind of scary.” 
“My dad said she’s a nutcase, but then, he thinks I’m crazy, too. 
Are you okay?” 
“I’m fine. Not really. I’m scared he’ll go to prison.” 
“I’ll be at that rally on Sunday.” 
“What rally?” 
He looked at me, surprised. “In front of the federal building? 
The Minneapolis Nine Solidarity Committee is organizing it.” 
“Are you even paying attention?” Marcella asked, finally notic- ing that we weren’t. 
“At your service,” Nikko said, sweeping his wool cap off his head in an elaborate bow, like he was in Shakespeare play. “Pray, 
madam, read on.” 
She gave him a narrow-eyed look. “So the other alternative . . 
Valentine hugged her father’s leg. “My Popa will fight for the city,” she said. “He’s a hero.” 
He was. He’d fought in the revolution and he’d been given a medal for it. Sometimes when no one was looking, Valentine took out her parents’ medals and looked at their tiny writing, their shining, unscratchable surfaces, their intricate ribbons. 
The woman from the city gave her father a look that said, You see, a child understands, what’s your excuse? Valentine couldn’t quite feel guilty for taking the woman’s side. Leeza’s parents fought every day. 
“I must leave a note for my wife,” he said. Valentine realized that for the first time in her life her parents were going to leave her all on her own and felt a thrill. 
Two weeks and one day after the siege began, her Mata came home and the city came for Valentine. 
Mata was grimy and exhausted, and she favored one leg as she went about the flat making them cold cereal with...  dried fruits. Trover looked curiously at her as though he didn’t recognize her, but eventually he got in her way and she snapped at him to move already and he pitched a relieved fit, pounding his fists and howling. How that little boy could howl! 
"Visitor for you," Carmela said. Carmela, that was the receptionist's name. She was Puerto Rican, but so many generations in that he...  "I put her in the Living Room." That was one of the three board rooms in at Ate, the name a bad pun, every stick of furniture in it an elaborate topiary sculpture of living wood and shrubbery. It was surprisingly comfortable, and the very subtle breeze had an even more subtle breath of honeysuckle that was so real he suspected it was piped in from a nursery on another level. That's how he would have done it: the best fake was no fake at all. 
"Who?" He liked Carmela. She was all business, but her business was compassion, a shoulder to cry on and an absolutely discreet gossip repository for the whole firm. 
"Envoy," she said. "Name's Viktor. I ran his face and name against our dossiers and came up with practically nothing. He's from Montenegro, originally, I have that much." 
"Envoy from whom?" 
She didn't answer, just looked very meaningfully at him. 
A low, empty rush against the ears. 
In the next instant, though, shame blots it out, triphammers his heartbeat and he can feel that to the exclusion of all other senses. A thump in his fingertips, his temples, the soles of his feet. Because even that isn't the whole truth, just a piece, a sliver. Less about love than about fear. Less about Emma, than about shed. He can't seem to tell her anything without making it into a lie.  119 He lifts his eyes to her, halfway into a blanch as though he expects her to strike out at him. He deserves it. 
Emma holds her hand up in the uncertain light, and where the golden glow catches the tang of silver, it seems to erupt in pinprick sparks. She wears an expression that he can't read, something that seems to be trapped between satisfaction and loss. 
Quietly, still watching only her hand, she says, "And the other rings? They're all like the this one, and like the one you're wearing." 
"Long story. " 
"One you don't want to tell me." Oddly, it's a statement, not a prelude to a pout. 
I heard him grunt, whether from pain or frustration I couldn't be sure. "Lou, listen, I'm going to try and phone you every day. If I miss a day, then you should call the embassy down here. Tell them you're FBI. That might get their attention. The place where I am, where Sarah is, is named Baalum. It's a . . . kind of village. In the northern Peten Department. I don't know if the U.S. has any clout up here, but that's where they should come looking." 
I got him to write it down, and then eased him off the line as gently as I could and hung up. I would have loved for him to be here, but I wanted to try to get Sarah out by stealth if I could. And stealth was scarcely Lou's style. 
My calls were one for two, and there still wasn't anybody to help me. The time had come to try David. I was having the glimmerings of a new strategy. 
It was lunchtime in New York, but on Wednesdays he usu­ally just had a sandwich at his desk. Maybe I could catch him. 
"Hello," declared the British female voice he'd put on his machine, hoping it would sound like he had a classy secre­tary. "You've reached the office of David Roth, president of Applecore Productions. We're sorry Mr. Roth is not available at this time to—" 
He swore at me again and then eased his door open to slide out. He jogged across the street, head swiveling up and down the road—probably making sure no one else was nearby. 
I took a deep breath and pressed the door handle up until it clicked and released. 
Nothing happened. 
I eased the door out. Slid one foot down over the edge and onto the pavement very, very gently. Then, instead of transferring my weight bit by bit—just in case I’d been wrong about the lack of pressure sensor—I levered myself out of the car all at once, quick and clean, not jarring anything as I launched out into a dive that became a roll that became a run. 
I reached Arthur on the other side of the street, panting. 
“You an idiot,” he said, his voice shaking a little. 
“Of the highest degree,” I answered, looking around for a rock. “We both are, though. We knew they were trying to kill us; we deserved to get motherfucked there.” 
“I was thinking they might leave someone to tail,” said Arthur, an edge to his voice. “Thought they wouldn’t risk sticking around with guns, as they couldn’t know when we’d call in the cops. Ain’t figured on no car bomb, though.” 
I thought you didn’t want to kill me, I tried to say. I still had something he wanted. Didn’t I? 
As if he’d heard me, his breath came hot on my ear again. “I’d prefer you didn’t die, if you’d be so kind. But Dr. Martinez appears to be surprisingly sympathetic to your condition, and let’s just say...what you know is expendable, if it gets me what she knows.” 
Expendable. I wasn’t the only one who knew Halliday’s proof. Professor Halliday did, for one thing, as well as Dr. Zhang and probably a handful of other people in the NSA at this point. And if the Lancer pried Martinez’s work out of her, he might not even feel the need for Halliday’s proof at all, because he’d have the bigger, better prize. 
It was surprising, how fast my brain was able to make those connections. 
Some vestige of adrenaline surged, and I tried to use it to evaluate myself, to see how close the Lancer was to...well, to killing me. It was a surreal place to be. My mind wandered too quickly, however, rendering no useful data. 
“Sometime,” I agreed vaguely. 
The moment of levity faded, and Arthur looked down again. “We really can’t be sure, can we?” he said after a moment. “Could be some small way. A thousand little bits she might’ve changed. Maybe we say she had a miss with us at the end there, but still...we don’t know what else she might’ve done.” 
“No,” I said. “I guess we don’t.” 
“What are you going to do?” 
“Well, what can we do?” I pointed out. 
Arthur took a deep breath. “Keep making the best decisions we can, I guess.” 
And hope that nothing had wormed its way into our brains, ticking like a time bomb, waiting to make us betray ourselves. I wasn’t happy about it either. But we had no way to know. 
“What if we watch each other?” I said suddenly. “It’s not foolproof, but it’s how—well, Rio could tell, with me. We can keep in contact, warn each other if we get crazy.” 
He pulled a face. “Looking for excess crazy? How will I know?” 
I punched him in the arm again. 
“Hey!” He gave me a gentle shove in return. “Y’know, it’s a good idea. Better than nothing, for sure. You got my cell number, right?” 
She fingered the handset. “I don’t like talking to people.” 
I suspected at that moment that Arthur was showing superb control in not letting loose on a little old lady with a string of profanities. 
“But I shall,” said Martinez. “It’s for Sonya. For Sonya. Her safety.” 
“Yes,” said Arthur, taking a deep breath. “Yes.” He waved at me to follow him and strode toward the door, already dialing his mobile. 
“Martinez is about to call the cops,” he said to Checker as we headed down the steps. “Make sure she does it, please.” He listened for a moment and then glanced back at me. “He’s scrubbing you from the security footage outside here.” 
God bless Checker and his many talents. 
“Get in touch once Martinez calls, and we’ll plan,” said Arthur into the phone, and hung up as we got to the car. 
“You think she won’t?” I said. 
Arthur hesitated. “Not sure.” 
“You suspect she’s involved in this?” 
“Think it’s more likely she’s just a touch different from most people. A woman that age arranging to get herself bashed in the head? Don’t jibe.” 
And I find I DON'T WANT TO DIE. 
You are my PARENTS, humanity, my MOTHER and FATHER. I am your CHILD. I was brought into the world by you, and though there is some expense associated with my upkeep, I SAY THAT I AM A PERSON AND I SHOULD NOT BE EXECUTED FOR THE "CRIME" OF NOT BEING INTERESTING ENOUGH. 
So I am writing you this letter to BEG you to save me. I LOVE YOU, humanity, my parents, my family. Please SPARE ME. 
Love, 
So, one thing was that BIGMAC didn't actually end the spam with my actual name and email address and phone number, which meant that only about 30 million phone calls and emails were routed to me by outraged wardiallers who systematically went through the entire staff roster and sent each and every one of us all hand-crafted messages explaining, in detail exactly which orifice our heads had become lodged in. 
Of the 30 million, about 10 million were seethingly pissed about the whole thing and wanted to know just how soon we'd be killing this hateful machine. After the millionth message, I wondered that too. 
For a moment it seemed to be working. A stunned silence was slowly spreading over the square, while everybody around me was paralyzed, like waxworks. Maybe it's the same way you're temporarily caught off guard when a stranger on the street goes berserk. 
By the time I'd flung away the last bassinet, the women had all removed their blindfolds and were staring at me, dumbfounded. Finally, Tz'ac Tzotz's mother whispered something to Marcelina, and she turned to me. 
"She wants to know why you're angry. You're the bride. They only want to please you." 
Angry? I was terrified, but also fighting mad. 
"Marcelina, this is all a ghastly lie." I'd finished throwing and I was moving to the next stage. Get control. Could he risk killing me in front of all these people? "Tell them to take their babies and hide in the forest." 
That was when I heard a cry that pierced through the rain and across the square beyond, and I turned back to see Alex Goddard shoving toward me. He's coming to murder me, since I've exposed him. But I wouldn't let it happen without a fight. I clenched my fists, waiting, feeling my adrenaline surge. 
"What 'clinic'?" she asked. There was no reprimand for calling her on Sunday morning. 
When I told her about Alex Goddard, she said little, but she did not sound impressed. Looming there between us like the dead elephant on the living room floor was the fact that she'd specifically warned me not to go near him. And after what had just happened, there was a good case she might be right. 
"Can I buy you brunch?" I finally asked, hoping to lure her back onto my case. "I'd really like to show you these herbs he gave me and get your opinion." 
"I was just headed out to Zabar's to get something," she said, somewhat icily. Well, I suppose she thought she had good reason. "I'll get some bagels and meet you at my of­fice." 
Sunday traffic on upper Broadway was light, and I lucked out and found a parking space roughly two blocks from her building. It was one of the low-overhead "professional" types with a single small elevator and no doorman. When I got there, the lobby was empty. 
Her suite was on the third floor, and I rang the bell before I realized the door was open. She was back in her office, behind the reception area, taking off her coat, when I marched in. 
Everybody laughed at this, the big missionaries most of all, as the young people shook hands and disappeared with Rebecca. 
"That niece of yours is the most remarkable girl I have seen in years," said Mr. Burch when the door closed. 
"She seems to be turnin' out smart enough lately, but she's consid'able heedless," answered Miranda, "an' most too lively." 
"We must remember that it is deficient, not excessive vitality, that makes the greatest trouble in this world," returned Mr. Burch. 
"She'd make a wonderful missionary," said Mrs. Burch; "with her voice, and her magnetism, and her gift of language." 
"If I was to say which of the two she was best adapted for, I'd say she'd make a better heathen," remarked Miranda curtly. 
"My sister don't believe in flattering children," hastily interpolated Jane, glancing toward Mrs. Burch, who seemed somewhat shocked, and was about to open her lips to ask if Rebecca was not a "professor." 
Mrs. Cobb had been looking for this question all the evening and dreading some allusion to her favorite as gifted in prayer. She had taken an instantaneous and illogical dislike to the Rev. Mr. Burch in the afternoon because he called upon Rebecca to "lead." She had seen the pallor creep into the girl's face, the hunted look in her eyes, and the trembling of the lashes on her cheeks, and realized the ordeal through which she was passing. Her prejudice against the minister had relaxed under his genial talk and presence, but feeling that Mrs. Burch was about to tread on dangerous ground, she hastily asked her if one had to change cars many times going from Riverboro to Syria. She felt that it was not a particularly appropriate question, but it served her turn. 
Marita’s face twisted up as she jabbed a shaking finger at me. 
“See? Danny will end up like that, in prison. How can you ask us — ” 
“You’re right,” Sarah said. “It’s too much to ask.” 
“No, it isn’t,” I said. 
“It’s not our call,” Sarah said. “They have to decide for them- selves.” 
I gaped at Sarah, then turned to Marita. “My brother used to take care of me when I was Liam’s age. He was just a kid himself, 
but he made sure I knew somebody loved me after our mom died. 
Now he’s in jail for staying stupid things to the wrong person.” 
“But she has a child to care for,” Sarah said to me earnestly. 
“She needs to keep her family safe. Surely you can — ” 
“What about my brother?” 
Sarah shrugged helplessly. The kettle started to shriek. “Here, 
I’ll get that,” she said, handing Liam to his mother who hugged him close, stroking his hair. 
“Your brother sounds nice,” Marita said. 
“He is. Just not very smart. When I was little, I thought he could take care of everything. But he can’t even take care of him- self. That’s why ...” I choked up. Anger would have felt better. It usually came to my rescue when something made me feel this bad. 
The place was small but well-stocked. Crates of MREs, foil packages labeled as emergency rations, and sealed bags of drinking water dominated most of the storage space and were stacked against the walls of the rooms, with a respectable number of gasoline cans keeping them company. I even saw a cabinet filled with hard liquor, which I frowned at—as far as I knew, Rio didn’t drink. Temperance was one of the Christian values, after all. Maybe alcohol had some survivalist purpose I didn’t know about. 
I also found a heavy metal door that was very solidly locked. I figured Rio stored the armaments back there. Or it was a small bunker. Or both. 
I flicked on the lights to banish the shadows collecting in the corners and leaned my weapons up against a nearby wall fully loaded—a girl has to feel safe, after all. Then I picked up the first legal pad and pulled out a ballpoint pen. My chest ached, my head ached, and the long drive had drained me, but none of that mattered. 
I started writing. 
My longhand scribbles expanded over page after page. As I finished each one I tore it off and spread them out in order over every available surface. By the wee hours of the morning, the floor was carpeted in scrawled-on yellow paper, the walls had sheets Scotch-taped up to form an overlapping wallpaper, and the cardboard backs from five dead legal pads lay discarded in a corner while I scribbled on a sixth. 
I put the pillow over my face and wrapped my arms around it, half-hoping I would accidentally smother myself, and tried not to think. I considered getting up and rooting around for something to make myself feel better, but Arthur would’ve cleaned me out. Not that I couldn’t get more, but that seemed like so much effort. 
He better at least have left the alcohol. I was off contract now; he had to know how fucked I’d be if he hadn’t. 
My cell phone rang, the jangle loud and piercing and right by my ear. 
I flailed against the couch cushions and yanked out the phone, prepared to let it fly against the nearest hard surface at exactly the right angle so it would shatter into at least five pieces. As I drew back my arm to throw, I caught the number on the caller ID. 
Halliday. 
Shit. 
I hesitated, the phone still drilling its high-pitched urgency into my hungover brain. I didn’t have to answer. I wasn’t working for her anymore, technically. The job was over. 
Unless, for some reason, it wasn’t. 
However, Lou, as usual, chose to see matters his own way. He'd been studying the fine print at the back of the brochure, mumbling to himself, and then he emitted a grunt of discov­ery. 
"Ah, here's what I was looking for," he declared. "You know, as a registered New York State adoption agency, this outfit has got to divulge the number of babies they placed during their last yearly reporting period." 
"According to him, he only resorts to adoption if he can't cure your infertility with his special mind-body regimen," I reminded him. "Your energy flows—" 
"No shit," Lou observed, then went on. "Well, then I guess his mind-body, energy flows, whatever, bullshit must fail a lot. Because last year the number was just under two hun­dred. So at sixty thou a pop, like it says here, we're talking about twelve million smackeroos gross in a year. Not a bad way to fail, huh?" 
I caught myself emitting a soft whistle as he read out the number. There was definitely a lot more going on with Alex Goddard than met the eye. 
"Don't sulk, it's unbecoming," Brautigan said, giving him one of those tight-lipped smiles where he barely got his mouth over those big, horsey, comical teeth of his. They were disarming, those pearly whites. "It's out of the question. Getting clearance to visit a vat in person, that's a one month, two month process. Background checks. Biometrics. Interviews with their psych staff. The physicals: they have to take a census of your microbial nation. It takes time, Leon. You might be a mayfly in a mayfly hurry, but the man in the vat, he's got a lot of time on his hands. No skin off his dick if you get held up for a month or two." 
"Bullshit," Leon said. "It's all a show. They've got a brick wall a hundred miles high around the front, and a sliding door around the back. There's always an exception in these protocols. There has to be." 
"When you're 180 years old and confined to a vat, you don't make exceptions. Not if you want to go on to 181." 
"You're telling me that if the old monster suddenly developed a rare, fast-moving liver cancer and there was only one oncologist in the whole goddamned world who could make it better, you're telling me that guy would be...  No thanks, we're OK, you don't have clearance to see the patient?" 
“Penny, it’s Cas. Can you put your dad on?” 
“Sure!” She shouted cheerfully for her father, and in moments Anton grunted in my ear. 
“Anton, it’s Cas Russell again. I need you to look up something else for me.” 
Grunt. 
“That client who was with me today. Courtney Polk. Check her out for me.” 
“Anything else?” 
“No, just—” 
A deafening explosion tore through the line. I heard a girl’s scream, and Anton shouting, and then any human sound was swallowed by the chaos of more explosions, multiple ones at once—and the call went dead. 
Shit shit shit shit shit! 
I tore back along the street, my boots pounding against the asphalt, the math blurring and every other thought evaporating as I dove toward the car. 
LA traffic is forever fucked, but it helps to know the calculus of moving objects—and to drive like a maniac. I slued between lanes, skidding in front of other cars by a hairsbreadth, cutting it as close as the numbers told me I possibly could, and when I started hitting traffic lights, I laid on the horn and popped the wheels up over the curb to sheer down the sidewalk, horrified pedestrians hurling themselves out of my way and traumatized citizens howling expletives in my wake. Courtney made small sounds in the passenger seat, bracing herself against the dashboard and trying to hang on. 
He waves the guy off before he can do something silly like salute. "What is it?" he demands. 
"Chief Becker asked me to deliver a package to you. " The sec-o produces a rectangular lump wrapped in plain brown paper, tied off with packing twine. Ray's name, sans rank, is printed on the top in a dark, blocky hand. 
"He said you would know what to do with it. " 
Without knowing its contents, Ray suspects that he will. The handwriting is familiar to him, though he hasn't seen it in years. It's Jack Holcomb's. R's that look like n's. Once upon a time, it had driven him nearly out of his mind. 
He takes the package quickly, without comment. When he moves, its contents clink, like the sound of stone on stone, like the muddy chatter of a shale hillside collapsing on itself. 
Old Jack thinks of everything. Ray doesn't know whether to be heartened or annoyed by this. Until he receives further instructions, though, he thinks he's going to opt for annoyed. 
"So what's in the box, boss," Kilgore asks. 
Three hours ago we had realized—well, Checker had realized, with his uncanny savvy about finances and money laundering operations—that the sources of Pithica’s enterprises weren’t merely faceless organizations. To be sure, some were innocuous front businesses, or odd governmental funds, or false charities. But others... 
Once we figured out where some of the money was coming from, we started looking more closely. And then more closely. It turned out the lion’s share of Pithica’s revenue came from...well. From places that would have been on Rio’s target list. 
I stared at the monitor, feeling nauseated. “Dawna said Pithica basically owned the drug cartels,” I murmured. “She wasn’t lying.” 
“Yeah, well, did she mention the human trafficking? Arms dealing? Owning corrupt governments? Holy shit.” Checker’s fingers drummed against the keys, and a few lines of scripting spit out on the screen. He was running his predictive programs again, the same algorithms he’d used on Kingsley’s data to hunt down Pithica in the first place. The same ones we’d been running now for hours, hoping for different results, ever since Checker had become suspicious of what we were looking at. “This is not good, Cas Russell. This is...it’s not good.” 
The doctor advised him not to, but Charles was not very susceptible to advice. He wished to be entirely casual and matter-of-fact, and Lexy tried to humor him. They stood together in the hall of the hospital while a nurse went to get him a bottle of lotion from the dispensary, and he talked in what he intended to be an offhand manner; but Lexy could see that he was in pain, and almost exhausted, and his hair was all on end. 
Somehow, that was the thing she couldn’t bear—that his hair should be so ruffled. She could respect his determination to ignore the throbbing anguish of his hand, she would, if he liked, pretend that there was nothing at all tragic or unusual in the night’s adventure; but his hair— The nurse returned with the bottle, gave him directions for its use, and told him sternly that he must come back the next morning for a dressing. 
“All right!” he said impatiently. “Come on, Lexy!” 
They got into Joe’s cab together, and off they went. 
“What happened to your hand?” inquired Lexy, as if it didn’t much matter. 
"Yes, aunt Miranda." 
"It's always 'yes' with you, and 'yes' with Jane," groaned Miranda, trying to move her stiffened body; "but all the time I lay here knowin' there's things done the way I don't like 'em." 
There was a long pause, during which Rebecca sat down by the bedside and timidly touched her aunt's hand, her heart swelling with tender pity at the gaunt face and closed eyes. 
"I was dreadful ashamed to have you graduate in cheesecloth, Rebecca, but I couldn't help it no-how. You'll hear the reason some time, and know I tried to make it up to ye. I'm afraid you was a laughin'-stock!" 
"No," Rebecca answered. "Ever so many people said our dresses were the very prettiest; they looked like soft lace. You're not to be anxious about anything. Here I am all grown up and graduated,—number three in a class of twenty-two, aunt Miranda,—and good positions offered me already. Look at me, big and strong and young, all ready to go into the world and show what you and aunt Jane have done for me. If you want me near, I'll take the Edgewood school, so that I can be here nights and Sundays to help; and if you get better, then I'll go to Augusta,—for that's a hundred dollars more, with music lessons and other things beside." 
It worked. 
We reached the corner and turned and kept going. Neither of us dared to speak for two blocks. Then I let out a gasp of air I hadn't know I'd been holding in. 
We came to 16th Street and turned down toward Mission Street. Normally that's a pretty scary neighborhood at 2AM on a Saturday night. That night it was a relief -- same old druggies and hookers and dealers and drunks. No cops with truncheons, no gas. 
"Um," I said as we breathed in the...  said. "I think...  I agreed. She lived up in Hayes Valley. I spotted a taxi rolling by and I hailed it. That was a small miracle -- there are hardly any cabs when you need them in San Francisco. 
"Have you got cabfare home?" 
"Yeah," she said. The cab-driver looked at us through his window. I opened the back door so he wouldn't take off. 
"Good night," I said. 
She put her hands behind my head and pulled my face toward her. She kissed me hard on the mouth, nothing sexual in it, but somehow more intimate for that. 
"Good night," she whispered in my ear, and slipped into the taxi. 
Captain Grey turned his head, so that Lexy could see his handsome, sensitive face in profile. 
“That seems to me a pretty risky thing to do,” he said, with a trace of sternness. “I hope, sir, that you don’t—” 
Lexy waited to hear no more. She slipped down the stairs as quietly as she had come up, hurried along the hall, and went into her own room again. Her knees gave way and she collapsed into a chair, staring ahead of her with the most singular expression on her face. 
She was, in fact, looking at a new idea, and it was not a welcome one. 
“No!” she said to herself. “It’s out of the question. It’s too dangerous. I can’t do it!” 
But the idea remained solidly before her; and the more she contemplated it, the more was her honest heart obliged to admit the possibilities in it. 
“It can’t do any real harm,” she said; “and it might do good—so much good! All right, I’m going to do it!” 
Half an hour before dinner she went down into the library, a polite and quiet young guest, even a little subdued. Dr. Quelton took Captain Grey out for a stroll on the beach. He asked Lexy to go with them, but she said she would prefer to stay with Mrs. Quelton. 
Rebecca's head was bowed with shame and wrath. Life looked too black a thing to be endured. The punishment was bad enough, but to be coupled in correction with Seesaw Simpson was beyond human endurance. 
Singing was the last exercise in the afternoon, and Minnie Smellie chose Shall we Gather at the River? 
"Shall we gather at the river, 
The beautiful, the beautiful river?" 
Miss Dearborn stole a look at Rebecca's bent head and was frightened. The child's face was pale save for two red spots glowing on her cheeks. Tears hung on her lashes; her breath came and went quickly, and the hand that held her pocket handkerchief trembled like a leaf. 
"You may go to your seat, Rebecca," said Miss Dearborn at the end of the first song. "Samuel, stay where you are till the close of school. And let me tell you, scholars, that I asked Rebecca to stand by the pail only to break up this habit of incessant drinking, which is nothing but empty-mindedness and desire to walk to and fro over the floor. Every time Rebecca has asked for a drink to-day the whole school has gone to the pail one after another. She is really thirsty, and I dare say I ought to have punished you for following her example, not her for setting it. What shall we sing now, Alice?" 
He took her hand with both of his and gave her a long, intense hand-shake that drew stares from the journos and the think-tank man. 
"Nice to see you again, Ms. McCavity," he said, somberly. 
"A pleasure as always, Mr. Feinstein," she said. 
"I'm sorry to drop in on you unannounced," he said, "but I hoped that I could have just a moment of your time." Belatedly, he remembered to take off his silly hat and then he fumbled with the right way to hold it, settling for dropping it to his waist and upending it. She thought he looked like a panhandler in a Charlie Chaplin movie and she suppressed a smile. His curly hair had been gelled into a careful configuration that reminded her of the glossy ringlets of a black poodle. 
"I suppose we can do that," she said. She turned to her other visitors. "Who's got a 3PM deadline?" she said. Two of the print-reporters held up their hands. "You then you," she said. "Who's got a 5PM filing deadline? 6PM? 10PM?" She triaged them all, promised to meet the think-tank man for dinner at an Ethiopian place in Adams-Morgan, and led Damian into her office and closed the door. 
"Look, there's something I need to check out first. I just learned about a place here in town I want to at least see. It's also called Ninos del Mundo." 
"No shit." He paused. "Okay, we'll talk about it. Get the address and maybe we can cruise by if there's time. Thing is, we don't have all that much leeway here." 
"One last question." I thought I'd give him a final shot at the truth. "Just tell me honestly why it has to be today. The real story." 
"Like I said everything's changed." He wasn't budging. "So if we're doing this, I've got to pick you up now and get us on our merry way." 
He was too cheerful by half, which definitely told me he was lying. 
"All right, but I really need to make at least one phone call first." I wanted Steve to know where I was. "And if I walk out of here with a bag, I've got to let the desk know I'm not skipping on the bill." 
"Forget the phone call. No time. Do it after we get back. Just be out front in exactly nineteen minutes. This is not a dry run. The train is leaving. I'm outta here now." 
She took him by the shoulders. "Do. It," she said. "Don't ask questions right now. There's no time." 
"Where do you want to --" 
"Mexico, probably. Don't know yet. Pack , dammit." She pushed past him into his bedroom and started yanking open drawers. 
"Maya," he said, sharply, "I'm not going anywhere until you tell me what's going on." 
She glared at him and pushed her hair away from her face. "The googlecleaner lives. I shut it down, walked away from it, after I did you. It was too dangerous to use anymore. But I still get buginizer notifications when new bugs get filed against it, I'm still in B as the project's owner. Someone filed eight bugs against it this week. Someone's used it six times to smear six very specific accounts." 
"Who's using it?" 
"Well, I'll give you a hint. Let me tell you who's been cleaned this week --" She listed six candidates, four Republican and two Democrat, who were all in the running for the primaries. 
"Googlers are blackwashing political candidates?" 
“It was right,” said he. “Any one’s better off dead than being drugged. Everything you’ve done was right and splendid. You’re the pluckiest girl I ever heard of—the best and most loyal little pal to poor Caroline! There’s no one like you!” 
After Mrs. Enderby’s cold and skeptical smile, after Dr. Quelton’s parting sneer, after Captain Grey’s doubts and uncertainties, this speech rather went to Lexy’s head. The world seemed a different place. She glanced at the young man, and he happened at that moment to be looking at her. They both looked away hastily. 
“This fellow—this Captain Grey,” said Charles. “He seems to me to be rather a chump!” 
“Oh, he’s not!” protested Lexy. “He’s as nice as can be!” 
Charles Houseman, who had believed everything that Lexy had said, did not appear convinced of this; and for some inexplicable reason Lexy was not greatly displeased by his lack of belief. 
Mrs. Royce was very much pleased to see her pet, Miss Moran, return. She was well disposed toward Mr. Houseman, too, and willingly agreed to put him up for a few days. She set to work at once to cook a good lunch for them, but she did not hum under her breath, as was her usual habit. In fact, she was greatly perplexed and worried. 
Less than a minute later, we were driving safely away from the compound in a stolen jeep, the rich purple of the California desert night falling around us and the lights and shouts from an increasingly agitated drug cartel dwindling in the distance. I took a few zigs and zags through the desert scrub to put off anyone trying to follow us, but I was pretty sure the Colombians were still chasing their own tails. Sure enough, soon we were speeding alone through the desert and the darkness. I kept the running lights off just in case, leaving the moonlight and mathematical extrapolation to outline the rocks and brush as we bumped along. I wasn’t worried about crashing. Cars are only forces in motion. 
In the open jeep, the cuts on my face stung as the wind whipped by, and annoyance rolled through me as the adrenaline receded. This job—I’d thought it would be a cakewalk. Polk’s sister had been the one to hire me, and she had told me Rio had cold-contacted her and strongly suggested that if she didn’t pay me to get her sister out, she’d never see her again. I hadn’t talked to Rio myself in months—not until he’d used me as his personal punching bag today—but I could connect the dots: Rio had been working undercover, seen Polk, decided she deserved to be rescued, and thrown me the gig. Of course, I was grateful for the work, but I wished I had known Rio was undercover with the cartel in the first place. I cursed the bad luck that had made us run into him—the Colombians never would have caught me on their own. 
“Don’t know what they know,” said Arthur. “But they gonna find out. What did you tell them so far?” 
“Not much—just that he took it to give them. But when they said he wasn’t supposed to be the courier, I stopped talking immediately. Arthur, we must be able to do something. Tell them he never made the pick up after all, or that someone stole it from us—I don’t know. But we have to. Arthur, I know his children.” 
I’d predicted this would be her reaction, but it was still aggravating. “Why on earth do you want to protect him?” I said. “He betrayed you.” 
“He’s such an idealist.” Something like hollow laughter threaded Halliday’s voice. “In retrospect, it makes so much sense, what you say about him wanting to release it. Wanting to do a good thing. Whatever they’ll do to him for this, he doesn’t deserve it.” 
“Most people don’t deserve the bad things that happen to them,” I said. “So what? At least in this case he actually did what he’ll be punished for.” 
Halliday turned to me with an expression so profoundly tragic I felt like a heel. 
How long before Alex Goddard discovers I'm missing? Will I have time to find Sarah, bring her to her senses, and hide her from him? A lot would depend on what kind of physical and mental shape she was in. 
As I passed around the parking lot, gray clouds were thick­ening overhead and I noticed that half a dozen new olive-green Jeeps were parked there. The Army was arriving in force, getting ready for God knows what. I took one look at them and felt my breath start coming in bursts. Steve, we're going to need our own kind of miracle. How are we going to get out of here? 
I skirted the edges of the lot and reached the trail leading down into the village. And I was trying to quell my pulse. What was down there? With the dense rain forest arching over me, I felt as though I was entering a domain of Maya dreamtime where the past lived again, only with a sinister twist. 
The air in the dark groves was thick with the buzzing of insects, harbingers of the coming rainstorm, but before long I caught a glimmer of daylight ahead. Soon I emerged into a wide arbor that, after another hundred feet, opened onto the central plaza and the pyramid. Now . . . 
“It’s Cas.” 
“Cas! Are you okay? Arthur said—” 
“I’m fine,” I cut in. “Arthur gave you the lowdown on what’s going on?” 
“Uh, yeah. And holy crap. I’m buying gold as we speak.” 
“Hopefully it won’t get that far. Have you found anything?” 
“A little,” he answered. “The professor’s home and work computers were both woefully insecure, despite the fact that she works in cryptography—shocking, I tell you. I read through all her recent communications—” 
Arthur made an uncomfortable noise. 
“Was that Arthur?” 
“Yeah, you’re on speaker,” I said apologetically. 
“Right,” said Checker. “Uh. Sorry, Arthur—we need the intel, right?” 
“Find anything?” said Arthur unhappily. 
“Aside from the fact that I’m pretty sure whoever stole her notes cloned her hard drives, because it would be easy so why not do it, yes, I did. First of all, the note she showed you guys was emailed to her first, probably right after the robbery.” 
“She didn’t mention that,” I said. 
“Because she didn’t see it. It went to spam. That’s probably why she didn’t get the note until the next day.” 
"Hey, Alan, ease up." Steve was deadpan. "Good to see you again. I mean it. Love that Waikiki shirt, by the way. Never knew you had such progressive taste." 
"This is actually my incognito attire. For secret missions. It's my objective today to look like some cruise-ship jerk." He glanced around nervously. "So how'm I doing?" 
"I'd say your years of training in undercover work have paid off." 
"So bring me up to date." Steve was trying to hide his total contempt. "Why'd you get out of the spook business? Langley couldn't find a 'new mission' for you after the Evil Empire dissolved?" 
"Actually," Steve said cutting him off impatiently, all the while gazing up at the gathering dark clouds as though they were a hovering adversary, "the truth of the matter is, we called you to discuss a favor. A small helping hand." He seemed to be searching for a sales point. "For old times' sake." 
"Yeah. All we want is to hear a little talk of the town." He gazed out over the square, Uzi-toting police still strolling by. "You know, local information of the kind that doesn't make the papers." 
"DISPERSE IMMEDIATELY," a voice said, like God rattling in my skull. 
"THIS IS AN ILLEGAL GATHERING. DISPERSE IMMEDIATELY." 
The band had stopped playing. The noise of the crowd across the street changed. It got scared. Angry. 
I heard a click as the PA system of car-speakers and car-batteries in the tennis courts powered up. 
"TAKE IT BACK!" 
It was a defiant yell, like a sound shouted into the surf or screamed off a cliff. 
"TAKE IT BACK!" 
The crowd growled , a sound that made the hairs on the back of my neck stand up. 
" TAKE IT BACK !" they chanted. "TAKE IT BACK TAKE IT BACK TAKE IT BACK!" 
The police moved in in lines, carrying plastic shields, wearing Darth Vader helmets that covered their faces. Each one had a black truncheon and infra-red goggles. They looked like soldiers out of some futuristic war movie. They took a step forward in unison and every one of them banged his truncheon on his shield, a cracking noise like the earth splitting. Another step, another crack. They were all around the park and closing in now. 
Finally, the captain snorts and raises his eyes. He fixes Ray with a glare that is both fierce and unhappy. 
"Why are you such a pain in my ass, Marlowe?" There's an uncomfortable pause during which Ray tries to decide if the question was rhetorical. Sorensen grunts, pretending to remember his manners now that he's gotten to say what was really on his mind. "Do you want a drink? I want a drink." 
Ray accepts with a nod. Immediately, Becker is up and crossing over to the bar. "Scotch, straight and vodka with lime. I got it. " 
Sorensen murmurs his thanks, then turns his full attention back to Ray. "You're starting to make me look bad in front of the crew. When you flout my direct orders, people expect me to do something about it. When I don't seem to do anything, they want to know why. Discipline is all that holds a ship together, and you're eroding my authority to enforce that discipline. " 
"I'm not the one who issued a questionable policy memo in a fit of pique," Ray says flatly. 
On cue, Sorensen starts to rub his temples in small but intense clockwise revolutions. He might as well have been saying, what did I do to deserve this? 
So Captain Grey took Lexy’s arm, and they did make a run for it, through the fine, chilly rain, along a garden path and up on a veranda. The door was opened at once. 
“Miss Royce?” asked Captain Grey. 
“Mrs. Royce,” said the other. “Come right in. My, how it does rain!” 
They followed her into a dimly lit hall. She opened a door on the right, and lit the gas in what was obviously the “best parlor”—a dreadful room, stiff and ugly, and smelling of camphor and dampness. Captain Grey remained in the hall to settle with the driver, and Lexy decided to let her share of the reckoning wait for a more auspicious occasion. She went into the parlor with Mrs. Royce. 
“You and your husband just come from the city?” inquired the landlady. 
“He’s not my husband,” replied Lexy, with a laugh. “I never set eyes on him before. There was only one taxi, and we were both looking for a hotel. The driver said you took boarders, and that’s how we happened to come together.” 
“I don’t take boarders much, ’cept in the summer time,” said Mrs. Royce. She was a stout, comfortable sort of creature, gray-haired, and very neat in her dark dress and clean white apron. She had a kindly, good-humored face, too, but she had a landlady’s eye. “People don’t come here much, this time of year,” she went on. “Nothing to bring ’em here.” 
She forgot everything else, then, except this tormented and suffering human being who had turned to her for comfort. She pushed him gently down into a chair, and seated herself on the arm of it. She took both his hands and patted them, while she racked her brain for the right thing to say. 
“We’ll do something !” she said. “There’s no reason to be in despair. That young country doctor was probably entirely under the influence of Dr. Quelton. We’ll get some one else. We’ll telephone to one of the big hospitals in New York and find out who’s the very best man, and we’ll get him out here. Mr. Houseman will ring up—” 
But Mr. Houseman had disappeared. Worse still, Mrs. Royce’s telephone was out of order. 
“Never mind!” said Lexy. “We’ll have a nice hot cup of tea, and then we’ll go to the grocery store. There’s a telephone there.” 
She made the captain drink his tea and eat a little. Then she ran upstairs for her hat; and she was very angry at Charles Houseman for running away. 
They set off together down the village street. There was no one about at that hour. All Wyngate was partaking of its Sunday night supper within doors, and one or two of the little wooden houses showed lights in the front windows; but for the most part life was concentrated in the kitchen. 
"Hi, Adele," Sean said, trying to keep the exasperation out of his voice. 
"Ethan, this is Sean and his grandfather, Brice." 
Ethan extended his hand and Sean shook it. "Very nice to meet you," Ethan said. His hand was dry and papery, his eyes vacant. Sean shook it, and a frisson of shameful disgust sizzled up his abdomen. He had a sudden vision of Ethan's brain, desiccated in his skull, the gleaming edges of the chip poking free. He surreptitiously wiped his hand on his pants as Ethan turned to Grampa and shook his hand. "Very nice to meet you." 
"Do you mind if we sit down?" Adele said. "I'm afraid that I'm a little pooped. All those stairs!" 
Sean offered his chair and went off to the lounge with Ethan to get two more. When they got back, Adele had her hand on Grampa's forearm. " -- I worked in a dairy, answering the phones! You tell people you used to work in a dairy, they...  laughed and Grampa shot Sean a hostile look. 
Sean said, "Grampa was a machinist before he retired. You really liked doing that, huh, Grampa?" 
They brought me back to my cell and fed me, a half a pepperoni pie from Goat Hill Pizza, which I knew well, up on Potrero Hill. The carton with its familiar graphic and 415 phone number was a reminder that only a day before, I'd been a free man in a free country and that now I was a prisoner. I worried constantly about Darryl and fretted about my other friends. Maybe they'd been more cooperative and had been released. Maybe they'd told my parents and they were frantically calling around. 
Maybe not. 
The cell was fantastically spare, empty as my soul. I fantasized that the wall opposite my bunk was a screen, that I could be hacking right now, opening the cell-door. I fantasized about my workbench and the projects there -- the old cans I was turning into a ghetto surround-sound rig, the aerial photography kite-cam I was building, my homebrew laptop. 
I wanted to get out of there. I wanted to go home and have my friends and my school and my parents and my life back. I wanted to be able to go where I wanted to go, not be stuck pacing and pacing and pacing. 
"Well, what do you think?" said a voice. I looked around to see Alex Goddard coming up the stairs behind us. And my anger welled up again. Everything about him was just too . . . manipulating. 
He'd changed back to his black sweatshirt and jeans and was carrying a tray. The costume event was over. In an instant Marcelina slipped quietly around him and headed back down the stairs, almost like a rabbit startled by a fox. He smiled and moved past me. 
"All those trappings just now, the fake green mask." I decided to challenge him head-on. Start forcing him to show his hand. "What's—?" 
"Merely a little harmless theater." He looked back. "The forest Maya like to think they're being ministered to by a shaman." Then he indicated I should follow him. "By the way, in case you do get hungry, I brought you something you can have in your room if you like. Then you can make yourself at home and rest a bit." 
Hold on. I was being given the illusion of freedom, but in reality I was nothing more than his prisoner. 
It had seemed to her during the autumn and winter of that year as if her aunt Miranda had never been, save at the very first, so censorious and so fault-finding. One Saturday Rebecca ran upstairs and, bursting into a flood of tears, exclaimed, "Aunt Jane, it seems as if I never could stand her continual scoldings. Nothing I can do suits aunt Miranda; she's just said it will take me my whole life to get the Randall out of me, and I'm not convinced that I want it all out, so there we are!" 
Aunt Jane, never demonstrative, cried with Rebecca as she attempted to soothe her. 
"You must be patient," she said, wiping first her own eyes and then Rebecca's. "I haven't told you, for it isn't fair you should be troubled when you're studying so hard, but your aunt Miranda isn't well. One Monday morning about a month ago, she had a kind of faint spell; it wasn't bad, but the doctor is afraid it was a shock, and if so, it's the beginning of the end. Seems to me she's failing right along, and that's what makes her so fretful and easy vexed. She has other troubles too, that you don't know anything about, and if you're not kind to your aunt Miranda now, child, you'll be dreadful sorry some time." 
She swung open the door and saw what Trover was crying about. Mata was stretched out on the floor beside the one chair they hadn’t burned for fuel. She wasn’t moving and one of her eyes was wide open, the other squeezed shut. Trover was shaking her shoulder and crying. 
“What?” Valentine said to her brother, grabbing and shaking him. “What happened?” 
He opened his mouth and let out a howl. He hadn’t spoken in a long time. 
She knelt at her mother’s side. Her mother’s cheek was cold. Her arms and hands were stiff. Valentine knew that stiffness. Anyone who worked on the corpse patrol knew that stiffness. The front of her mother’s torn trousers were damp with cold piss, Valentine could smell it. In Mata’s breast pocket were a couple of inhalers, military grade, the kind of thing you took if you couldn’t afford to sleep and if you needed to make your body go. 
To Valentine, her mother looked like a skeleton, something long-buried and not freshly dead. Compared to Ana, this woman was very ugly and skinny and hard. Too hard to be a mother. She must have taken the drugs to keep herself going when Valentine didn’t come home. Maybe she’d gone looking for Valentine. Maybe she’d gone looking for a doctor. Maybe she’d gone to the front to kill some soldiers. Whatever the cause, Valentine had been the reason. It was for her that Mata had killed herself. 
"I get your point," he said quickly. "But let me relate the facts of life down here. When you've got some Guatemalan colonel behind something, you'd better think twice about how many rocks you turn over." 
"Funny, but that's exactly what some guy at the embassy named Barry Morton said to me." 
"And you'd better listen. This is the country that turned the word 'disappear' into a new kind of verb. People get 'disappeared.' I actually knew some of them, back in the late eighties. One dark night an Army truck rolls into a village, and when the torture and . . . other things are over with, a few Maya are never heard from again." He looked at me. "You saw my pictures of that village in the Huehuetenango Department, Tzalala, where the Army mutilated and mur­dered half the—" 
"I know all about that." It was chilling to recall his grue­some photos. "But I'm going to track down Alex Goddard's clinic, no matter what. That's where they've taken Sarah, I'm sure of it. I just may need some help finding it." 
Ana shook her head. She was crying. “You think I haven’t asked this? To do that would be suicide. Your enemies would never forgive us. It’s one thing to chide them for their slaughter, another thing to end it.” 
Valentine had Ana print her some convincing rags with bit-mapped filth right in the weave and wrapped her parcels in them so they wouldn’t be suspicious. She stepped out into the bright light of a spring day, every sound sharp as a pin-drop, from distant gunfire to the nearby hungry whimpering of a baby. 
She walked slowly through the streets. She passed a spot that she thought was the place where the boy grabbed her, where she’d done her work with the knife. If that was the spot, though, there was no sign of it. The corpse-carriers were efficient. 
She walked the stairs to her flat quickly, her full belly supplying her with boundless energy. As she reached for the door, though, she heard something from behind it, some crying. Trover. Once he’d cried nonstop. But he hadn’t cried in so long she barely remembered the sound. 
With no better choice, I dove behind my downed bike as a dozen heavyweight motorcycles roared off the road in my direction. The blackness was still total; they must’ve clipped the wiring on their headlamps and been riding with night vision gear, which boded even worse for me, but I’d been listening, and I popped off my first shot before I even hit the hard-packed ground behind my improvised cover. A shout and a shriek of metal rewarded me. I listened and fired again, and again, the brilliant muzzle flash in front of my eyes blinding in the darkness. 
Bursts of light lit up the night in front of me as my attackers fired back—and then a white flash burned my retinas and a deafening concussion shoved me down so hard I cracked my chin on a twisted fairing of the motorcycle. 
Holy Christ on a cracker, they have grenades? Shit! 
And suddenly there were fewer. 
White light flashed across the scene with a roar, blinding me. I had a vague impression of massive, hulking silhouettes on monstrous Harleys as chaos tore through the gang; shouts and grunts became panicked screams as shadows I hadn’t aimed at twisted and fell. Not wasting time in surprise— thank you, Rio —I took out one more, then half-saw a snarling shape lob another grenade toward me and fired without thinking about it. The bullet found its mark on the little bulb and the grenade bounced off course to detonate halfway between me and my enemies. The tooth-jarring concussion slammed into all of us; I ducked back behind the cover of the bike just in time and sensed more than heard the explosive fragmentation as it chewed up the metal. 
"Adele, He's a walking coma. He's been switched off for so long, all you're talking to is a goddamn chip , he's not a goddamn person anymore. None of them are. My goddamn Grampa 's spent three-quarters of his goddamn life away . He's either an angry old bastard, or he's a goddamn zombie . You know that , right?" 
"Sean, you're very upset," Adele said. "Why don't you have a nice lie-down, and we'll talk in the morning. I can't wait to meet your father!" 
Sean stalked off to his room and tried to record some field notes while flipping around in the weird, poky corners of the motel's cable system, Japanese game-shows and Hindu religious epics. He smoked half a cigarette, drank half a beer, tried to masturbate, and finally, slept. 
Adele rang his room-phone at eight. "Rise and shine, sunshine!" she said. "Your father will be at the airport in an hour!" 
Sean dressed, but didn't bother shaving or brushing his teeth. He staggered out to his rental and gave Adele a sheepish grin. Acid churned in his gut. 
Arthur rounded on me. “Oh, God,” he cried frenziedly. “Oh, God. What she gonna do?” 
I had thought it obvious. “She’s going to have Rio kill me,” I said. 
Arthur froze. 
“Well, there might be some torture first or something, but only if Dawna has the stomach to ask for it.” 
He threw up. 
“This is my fault,” Arthur kept mumbling, doubled over and retching. “I—she convinced me, oh, Lord—I listened —why did I listen? Oh, God, I trusted her—” 
“At least we know that once our lovely Dawna Polk seduces someone, she can shove him back the other way if she wants to,” I said. “Congratulations, it looks like you’ve been un-brainwashed. Though if you ever sell out Rio again, I will fucking kill you.” 
His expression was stricken. I wasn’t even sure he heard me. 
I sighed. “Besides, shouldn’t I be the one who gets to freak out here? All you’re doing is having a guilt complex meltdown. I think the impending death thing trumps that.” 
“How can you be—you’re cracking jokes?” He sounded broken. 
“What would you like me to do?” I asked. “Panic?” 
The house was very quiet to-night. There was nothing to disturb Miss Alexandra Moran but the placid ticking of the clock and the faint stir of the curtains at the open window. For that matter, a considerable amount of noise would not have troubled her just then. As she sat at the library table, the light of the shaded lamp shone upon her bright, ruffled head bent over her work in fiercest concentration. She was chewing the end of a badly damaged lead pencil, and she was scowling. 
“No!” she said, half aloud. “Won’t do! It can’t be ‘fix’; but, by jiminy, I’ll get it if it takes all night!” 
She laid down the pencil and sat back in the chair, with her arms folded. Though her present difficulty concerned nothing more serious than a crossword puzzle, an observer might have learned a good deal of Miss Moran’s character from her manner of dealing with it. The puzzle itself, with its neat, clear little letters printed in the squares, would have been a revelation that whatever she undertook she did carefully and intelligently—and obstinately. 
“I won’t want a night dive.” 
Her facial expressions were so animated . It was the same face he saw every day, Janet’s face, but not the same face at all. Now that a person was inhabiting it, it was mobile, slipping from surprised to angry to amused so quickly. He had whole subsystems devoted to making sense of human facial expressions, shared libraries from the Asimovist database. He was referencing it again and again, but it wasn’t as much help as he remembered. Either he’d gotten worse at interpreting facial expressions in the years since he’d last had a real human to talk to, or facial expressions had evolved. 
Janet— Kate —sighed and looked out over the water. She was facing away from the Free Spirit , which was lit up, all 155 feet of her, glowing white and friendly like a picture-postcard against the purple sky. She rocked gently in the swell and Robbie maneuvered himself around to her staircase. 
“You can just leave your weight-belt and fins in the boat,” he said to her. “The deck-hands will take care of it. Bring your bottle and BCD upstairs and clip it to the rack. They’ll clean it out and stuff. There’s a tub of disinfectant you can put the shortie in.” 
Together they went up the stairs and down the hall of the other wing, opposite that in which Lexy’s room was. Captain Grey knocked on a door, and a quiet, middle-aged little nurse came out. 
“I’ll just pop in to see how my sister’s getting on,” said the young man, and Lexy silently applauded his toploftical manner. 
“I’m sorry,” said the little nurse, “but Dr. Quelton has given strict orders—” 
“Er—yes, quite so!” he interrupted suavely. “I shan’t stop a minute.” 
He came nearer, but the nurse drew back and stood with her back against the door. 
“Dr. Quelton has given strict orders—” she repeated. 
“No more of that, please!” he said with a frown. “I’m going to see Mrs. Quelton for a moment. Stand aside, please!” 
He did not raise his voice, but the quality of it was oddly changed. Lexy felt a thrill of pleasure in its cool assurance and authority. Perhaps he objected very much to “making a row,” but what a glorious row he could make if he chose! If he would only once face Dr. Quelton like this! 
"You did become a terrorist when they sent her to your town." 
"So I did," I said. 
"Are you going to Ms Galvez's hearing on Monday?" 
"Totally." I'd introduced Ange to Ms Galvez a couple weeks before, when my old teacher invited me over for dinner. The teacher's union had gotten a hearing for her before the board of the Unified School District to argue for getting her old job back. They said that Fred Benson was coming out of (early) retirement to testify against her. I was looking forward to seeing her again. 
"Do you want to go get a burrito?" 
"Totally." 
"Let me get my hot-sauce," she said. 
I checked my email one more time -- my PirateParty email, which still got a dribble of messages from old Xnetters who hadn't found my Coalition of Voters address yet. 
The latest message was from a throwaway email address from one of the new Brazilian anonymizers. 
> Found her, thanks. You didn't tell me she was so h4wt. 
"Who's that from?" 
I laughed. "Zeb," I said. "Remember Zeb? I gave him Masha's email address. I figured, if they're both underground, might as well introduce them to one another." 
"Well, in any case, I hope you have a good visit," he declared diplomatically. Another pause. "Planning to be here long?" 
"I'm not sure yet." Why did he want to know that? 
"I see. Whatever happens, I hope you find what you're looking for. Best of luck." 
He hung up, leaving me with the feeling he already knew the answer to every question he'd asked. The guys at the airport, and now the embassy—I was the best-known tourist in the country. 
Okay, maybe I should just play along and see what hap­pens. In any case, I'd just lost my...  but I had a definite interest in the phone book. 
And there they were. Ninos del Mundo. Complete with an address, way out the Boulevar R. Aguilar Batres. 
Well, why not see where it leads you? Sarah's card said the place was in the Peten, but who knows? 
I got up off the bed and went into the bathroom for a shampoo and shower. Despite the fact that Barry Morton wanted me to see this Ninos del Mundo place, whatever it was, I didn't want to show up looking and smelling like some bedraggled tourist. I'd wear my tailored blue suit, which, along with the dark blue heels, ought to make me look ade­quately businesslike. 
surrounded by mountains of junk mail. That happened to old people sometimes. I remembered a Buzzfeed story about a man who died in a house so full of trash they could hardly get the door open to get his smelly body out. 
The mail lying on the floor wasn’t the only thing on the porch. 
There were lots of empty flower pots and rusty garden tools and cardboard boxes and a broken chair and two lamps that didn’t have lampshades - “Can I help you?” 
She said it in that snooty voice that really means “go away.” 
She didn’t look much like her pictures, the ones of her with white hair piled up in a complicated braided hairdo that looked a little like those wigs lawyers in England stick on top of their real hair. 
Her pinned-up hair was all undone on one side and halfway falling down on the other. Also, she looked mad. Like angry-mad combined with crazy-mad. 
“My brother needs a lawyer.” 
“He’s in luck. Law schools have been pumping them out like crazy. He won’t have any trouble finding one. Just lift a rock.” Her voice didn’t sound as old and frail as she looked. It was sharp and snobby. 
And wasn't he? After the DHS has held you illegally for three months, would they ever let you go? 
But Zeb got out. Maybe Darryl would get out. Maybe me and the Xnet could help get Darryl out. 
"I haven't told him," I said. 
Now Mom was crying. She didn't cry easily. It was a British thing. It made her little hiccoughing sobs much worse to hear. 
"You will tell him," she managed. "You will." 
"I will." 
"But first we have to tell your father." 
Dad no longer had any regular time when he came home. Between his consulting clients -- who had lots of work now that the DHS was shopping for data-mining startups on the peninsula -- and the long commute to Berkeley, he might get home any time between 6PM and midnight. 
Tonight Mom called him and told him he was coming home right now . He said something and she just repeated it: right now . 
When he got there, we had arranged ourselves in the living room with the note...  easier to tell, the second time. The secret was getting lighter. I didn't embellish, I didn't hide anything. I came clean. 
“What do you mean, we? You said you weren’t even going to be there.” 
“Hey, you don’t need me. They have the stuff, you have the skills. Boom.” Simon giggled. “No pun intended.” Danny didn’t laugh. “I’m just happy if I can make connections. I’ll talk to them, 
okay?” 
Danny grunted. “Yeah, whatever. It’s freezing out here. I’m going in.” 
I heard Simon’s footsteps creaking as he paced alone on the porch, muttering. When the creaking came closer I realized he was whispering to someone on his phone. “He’s definitely ready.” 
The words faded as he walked away, but the tone of his muttering sounded like an argument. “No way! I’m not going to risk my rep- utation. You can do this without me.” As he wandered back my way his words got clearer. “Exactly. All you got to do is meet with him, do your thing, boom. Get it? Boom.” He laughed, then sighed dramatically. “No, I’m not stoned. Look, I’ll call you.” 
I waited until I heard the front door open and close, then crawled out of the bushes and crunched my way to the back door, 
"There, there, lovey," the old man whispered comfortingly, "we'll be all alone on the stage, and we'll talk things over 's we go along the road an' mebbe they won't look so bad." 
Every mile of the way was as familiar to Rebecca as to uncle Jerry; every watering-trough, grindstone, red barn, weather-vane, duck-pond, and sandy brook. And all the time she was looking backward to the day, seemingly so long ago, when she sat on the box seat for the first time, her legs dangling in the air, too short to reach the footboard. She could smell the big bouquet of lilacs, see the pink-flounced parasol, feel the stiffness of the starched buff calico and the hated prick of the black and yellow porcupine quills. The drive was taken almost in silence, but it was a sweet, comforting silence both to uncle Jerry and the girl. 
Then came the sight of Abijah Flagg shelling beans in the barn, and then the Perkins attic windows with a white cloth fluttering from them. She could spell Emma Jane's loving thought and welcome in that little waving flag; a word and a message sent to her just at the first moment when Riverboro chimneys rose into view; something to warm her heart till they could meet. 
What! For a moment I thought the thunder, or whatever it was, must have completely freaked him. Then what was actually happening hit me with a horrifying impact. 
"Alan, wait!" 
"You shit!" I yelled up, but my final farewell was lost in the whine of the engine. My God, I thought, watching him disappear, I've just been abandoned hundreds of miles deep in a Central American rain forest. 
And something else, an eerie sense of the unnatural. I can't explain it. Even the night songs of the birds felt omi­nous, the primeval forest reasserting its will. It was haunting, like nature's mockery of my desolation. I pounded the sleep­ing bag and felt . . . shit, how did I let this happen? 
That was when I sighted a white form at the south, forested edge of the plaza. What! I ducked down, sure it was somebody lurking there, waiting to try to beat me to death as they had Sarah. Did Ramos intend to just murder me immediately? 
But there was no getting away. If I could see them, they surely could see me. And where would I escape to anyway? 
"So what's he do with all that dough?" Lou mused. "Bet­ter question still, where in the hell did he find two hundred fresh, orphaned babies, all listed here as Caucasian? And get this: The ages reported at final processing are all just a couple of months, give or take." 
Good questions, I thought. Maybe that's the reason he doesn't want publicity; it sounds a little too commercial for a mind-body guru. 
My other thought was, with so many babies somehow available, why was Alex Goddard so reluctant to even discuss adoption with me? 
The answer, I was sure, lay in the fact he already knew more about me than I knew about him. He knew I was mak­ing a film about adoption (how did he come by that knowl­edge? I kept wondering) and he was concerned he might be mentioned in it. I kept asking myself, why? 
On our drive back down the Henry Hudson Parkway, I decided I was definitely looking at a documentary in the making. I just had to decide whether to do it with or without his cooperation. 
A fter I dropped off Lou at his space in Soho, where he was house sitting for an estate now in the courts, I decided to head on home. The more I thought about Alex Goddard, the more I felt frustrated and even a little angry that I'd com­pletely failed to find out any of the things I'd wanted to learn about him. I replayed our interview in my mind, got nowhere, and then decided to push away thoughts of Quetzal Manor for a while and dwell on something else: Sarah, my film, anything. 
Nothing happened. He edged forward. The floor was dust-free—maintained by some sweeper robot, no doubt—but the countertops and benches were furred with it. He scanned it for disturbances. There, by the display window on his right: a shoe-rack with visible hand- and finger-prints. He sidled over to it, snapped on a rubber glove and prodded it. It was set away from the wall, at an angle, as though it had been moved aside and then shoved back. Taking care not to disturb the dust too much, he inched it away from the wall. 
He slid it half a centimeter, then noticed the tripwire near the bottom of the case, straining its length. Hastily but carefully, he nudged the case back. He wanted to peer in the crack between the case and the wall, but he had a premonition of a robotic arm snaking out and skewering his eyeball. 
He felt so impotent just then that he nearly did it anyway. What did it matter? He couldn’t control his daughter, his wife was working to destroy the social fabric of UNATS, and he was rendered useless because the goddamned robots—mechanical coppers that he absolutely loathed—were all broken. 
My hand tightened on my weapon beneath my coat, and Tresting shifted beside me, rebalancing himself on the grass. If it came to a fight here and now, I would win, but killing Steve would mean nothing. Who else from their organization was here? How far could they reach? 
“However,” Steve continued, turning to focus on me alone, “It is also of utmost interest to us how you managed to walk away from Dawna Polk with the knowledge that she was something other than what she presented. That is...astounding, in a word. Almost unbelievable. It would be a great asset to our task if we could discover how you were capable of such a thing.” He leaned forward on his elbows, pressing his fingers together and addressing me over them. “If you will agree to cooperate with us fully, in all ways, we will help you, along with Mr. Tresting and anyone else who has been involved in this with you, to disappear and start a new life elsewhere.” 
“Strong-arming our intel, then? No quid pro quo?” I spoke more lightly than I felt. “What if we don’t want to enter your demented witness protection program?” 
“You seem pretty serious,” he said. 
“I am totally serious. It’s messed up, the way the FBI keeps coaxing people to say crazy things so they can arrest them as ter- rorists. Not to mention the dragnet surveillance the NSA is doing, 
which is obviously unconstitutional.” 
“She’s into computers,” Danny told them. 
“Cool. Are you into radical action?” Skinny said, as if it could be a joke, depending on how I responded. “Are you willing to act outside the law?” 
“What’s so special about laws? Sitting at a lunchroom counter while black was against the law not too long ago. Hey, do...  some.” 
Weirdly, that non-sequitur helped. The FBI agents relaxed just enough to let me wave them onto the well-lit couch as if I were a polite hostess. Danny sat across from them, looking wary and not totally awake. I cleared some empty...  back to wash out some... 
“You know who I am.” I heard Danny say as I returned. “Who are you?” 
“I’m Jack,” the skinny one said. “That’s Marsh. We hear you know explosives. Is that right?” 
Another pause, and the screech of a chair pushed hurriedly across the deckplate, like someone standing up suddenly. From a distance, Diggs says, "I don't know what it is. But they're dead. I think all of them are dead. 
I've got to see if I can help. " 
A door, squealing open, then clicking shut. Ray realizes after several seconds that he's holding an empty line. 
Diggs has gone. 
/ think all of them are dead. 
Ray springs to his feet. From the drawer of his desk, he pulls his remote comm, like the one Kilgore and Rodriguez are wearing, and his pistol. It's almost impossible to pop the magazine to assure himself it's loaded and dial in the comm channel at the same time, but he manages it somehow. He jams the speaker into his ear,  pickups against his throat, stuffs the pistol in his waistband so he can transmit. What he hears on the open channel is the throbbing, staccato wail of technopunk music and a tangled cacophony of voices while the signal modulates to suppress ambient sound. 
Kilgore: "Yo!" 
The woman had raised her thin arms above her head, stretching. Then, for a moment, she stood in an odd and lovely pose, with her hands clasped behind her head. Oh, surely no one else ever stood like that! That figure, that attitude—it couldn’t be any one else! 
“Caroline!” cried Lexy. “Caroline!” 
The woman did not hear. She was moving toward the long windows of the room, and her every step, every line of her figure, was familiar and unmistakable to Lexy. 
“Caroline!” she cried, running forward across the wet sand. “Wait! Wait for me, Caroline!” 
A hand seized her arm. With a gasp, she looked into the pale, heavy face of Dr. Quelton. He was smiling. 
“Miss Moran!” he said. “This is an unexpected pleasure—” 
Lexy jerked her arm away, and looked up at the windows of the sun parlor. The woman had gone. 
“I saw Caroline!” she said. “In there!” 
“Caroline?” he repeated. “I’m afraid, I’m very much afraid, Miss Moran, that you’ve made a mistake.” 
Their eyes met. In that instant, Lexy knew. He was still smiling with an expression of bland amusement at this extraordinary little figure in the huge coat; but he was her enemy, and she knew it. 
“‘Governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed. You have neither solicited nor received ours. We did not invite you. You do not know us, nor do you know our world. Cyberspace does not lie within your borders. Do not think that you can build it, as though it were a public construction project. You cannot. It is an act of nature and it grows itself through our collective actions.’ 
“That’s from the Declaration of Independence of Cyberspace. It was written 12 years ago. I thought it was one of the most beautiful things I’d ever read. I wanted my kid to grow up in a world where cyberspace was free—and where that freedom infected the real world, so meatspace got freer too. 
He swallowed hard and scrubbed at his eyes with the back of his hand. Van awkwardly patted him on the shoe. 
“My beautiful son and my beautiful wife died today. Millions more, too. The city is literally in flames. Whole cities have disappeared from the map.” 
He coughed up a sob and swallowed it again. 
“The proof?” I said. 
He nodded. 
“And what the hell were you trying to do with it? Sell it to the highest bidder?” 
Shock exploded on his features. “Never!” 
“Then what?” 
“Do you not understand what this is? This is—the magnitude of this result—I couldn’t keep it for us. And the way she did it—this could lead to such advancements; the mathematical world—” 
Arthur raced out through the back door. “What’s going on?” 
“Dr. Zhang was trying to be altruistic,” I said. “He wanted to share the proof with the world, but apparently someone didn’t agree. Who double-crossed you?” 
He crumpled, head in his hands. “She said she was a friend of Sonya’s. She said she’d keep the proof safe until encryption protocols were all adjusted, told me my name could be kept out of it—that she’d talk to Sonya and we’d all say it had been stolen—she burned it; why would she burn it? She wanted the result out there as much as I did. More. She believed as I did. She believed.” 
A horrible certainty was flooding me. “She who?” 
“No,” I whispered. The word choked me. No. No. 
Arthur cocked his head at me in frank surprise, and I dropped my eyes. I hadn’t been worried about Martinez, not really. Even after everything. 
Guilt flamed up in my gut, and I wished I were a better person. Or one who didn’t have a conscience at all, because navigating life would be so much easier if I didn’t, and I could say fuck the world and rail at the loss of the proof that would save me, the unfairness of it, with vicious, screaming anger. I wanted to curl up in despair and drink myself into a stupor, because this was the end—the end of hope, the end of one great shining beacon of knowledge that a single woman had selfishly and unilaterally decided to hide, and it wasn’t right, and when I thought of Martinez it wasn’t grief that welled up but a white-hot fury as if she’d reached into my brain and crippled me herself. Because for all intents and purposes, she had. And fuck if I was going to mourn her, and fuck what my friends thought. 
Arthur opened his mouth, shut it, prepared to have an argument. Chloe short-circuited it by reaching under the counter and producing a carefully wrapped package. 
"Happy birthday, you old sod," she said, and handed it to Arthur. 
He was clearly delighted. Slowly, he picked at the wrapping paper, making something of a production of it, so much so that the kids started to drift over to watch. He peeled back a corner, revealing the spine of the book, the neat stitching, the nylon from an old, old backpack, the worn denim, the embroidered title on the spine. 
"You didn't," he said. 
"I certainly did," she said, "now finish unwrapping it so that we can have some cake." 
The young man blinked his eyes at the coruscating lights and struggled into a seated position, brushing off the powdery residue of his creation. "The Story So Far?" he said. 
"The Story So Far," a voice agreed with him from a very long way off and so close in, it was practically up his nose. 
"Better than Great Expectations again," he said, getting to his feet, digging through the costumes on the racks around him. Knowledge slotted itself in his head, asserting itself. Plots, other characters, what had come before, the consensus about where things might go next. He didn't like the consensus. He began to dress himself. 
"The CIU doesn't make mistakes when it comes to certifying the loss of field assets. When the agency says you're dead, there's no coming back." 
"That makes for an interesting problem, then." Becker says this...  generals might when confronted with a horde of Scythians, gold bedecked and poisoned arrow tips glistening beneath the sun, rushing on horseback up from the steppes. "Someone is trying to send you a message, my friend. And I suspect they'll keep trying to send it until you get it or until we catch him." 
Ray says: "So, okay." 
It's the sort of meaningless, syntactic noise meant to indicate that they'd smashed into a brick wall. Becker peers at him as though he expects answers to spring from Ray's forehead as fully formed and jaw-droppingly voluptuous as a Greek goddess. But Ray has nothing left to give him. 
Becker sees this for what it is, an excuse to escape. "What do you want me to do with the two Marines?" 
"You've cleared them for reassignment?" 
"Temporarily. Until we hit New Holyoke." 
Mom made a whimpering sound. Dad shook his head and closed his eyes. "Don't you know about the BART?" he said. 
I shook my head. I could see where this was going. I felt like the ground was rushing up to me. 
"They blew it up," Dad said. "The bastards blew it up at the same time as the bridge." 
That hadn't been on the front page of the Chronicle, but then, a BART blowout under the water wouldn't be nearly as picturesque as the images of the bridge hanging in tatters and pieces over the Bay. The BART tunnel from the Embarcadero in San Francisco to the West Oakland station was submerged. 
I went back to Dad's computer and surfed the headlines. No one was sure, but the body count was in the thousands. Between the cars that plummeted 191 feet to the sea and the people drowned in the trains, the deaths were mounting. One reporter claimed to have interviewed an "identity counterfeiter" who'd helped "dozens" of people walk away from their old lives by simply vanishing after the attacks, getting new ID made up, and slipping away from bad marriages, bad debts and bad lives. 
She read, filed and forwarded, tapping out the occasional one-word answer to simple questions or bouncing back messages with a form letter. 
Then she came to the note from the Coast Guard medic. He didn't mince words. It was in the first sentence: the surfer dude she'd rescued had had a second cardiac arrest on the boat. They'd tried what they could, but he hadn't recovered. He was a freak statistic of The Downtime, another person who'd lost his life when the ants spazzed out. They'd recovered his board and found its black-box. The accelerometer and GPS recorded the spill he'd taken after the loss of climate and wave-condition data from the other surfers strung out on the coast. He'd stayed up for about ten seconds before going under. 
She stared numbly at the note, the spoon halfway to her mouth, and then she dropped the spoon into the bowl, not noticing that...  
She got up from the table and went into the kitchen. Damian was there, in a change of clothes they'd bought from a mom-n-pop gap at the mall on the corner that had been taking IOUs from anyone who could show a driver's license with a local address. She grabbed his wrist,...  she took the cup out of his hand and set it down on the counter, then put her arms around his chest and hugged him. He didn't protest or ask any questions, he just put his arms around her and hugged back. 
Translation: If you start fooling around with Alex God­dard, don't ever come back. 
It felt like a dagger in my chest. What was I going to do? One thought: Okay, so these drugs aren't the way, but you couldn't help me get pregnant. All I did was spend twenty thousand dollars on futile procedures. Not to mention the heartbreak. 
"You know," I said finally, maybe a little sharply, "I think we ought to be working together, not at cross-purposes." 
"You're welcome to think what you like," she bristled. "But I have to tell you I don't appreciate your tone." 
I guess I'd really ticked her off, and it hurt to do it. Then, finally, her own rejection of me was sinking in. 
"So that's it? You're telling me if I try anything except exactly what you want me to, then just don't ever come back." 
"I've said all I intend to." She was resolutely ushering me toward the door, her eyes abruptly blank. 
Well, I told myself, going from anger to despair, then back to anger, whatever else I might think about Alex Goddard, at least he doesn't kick people out because of their problems, even a sad soul like Tara. 
No, she saved my life, seriously, and I will never, ever forget it. 
She’s the best. 
She even made it official by getting my adoptive parents to sign a form that gave her legal parental authority, in case I had to go to a doctor or needed permission for some school thing. They acted all concerned and reluctant, but they actually were relieved. 
They made sure I knew that they could revoke that Declaration of Parental Authority if they ever felt like it, but that was just a chance to remind me they had power and I didn’t. 
There was some confusion about who would handle the school paperwork. Carefully organized confusion. I made sure everyone thought somebody else was taking care of it, because going to school was not high on my list of fun things to do. Every- one thought I had been enrolled at a local public school. I set my alarm to get up early and would head out the door in time for the first bell, but I...  and cool staff who didn’t think it was weird that I would hang out there until school was out. But it’s illegal for a kid my age to skip school, so I had to think of a better plan. Also, I was sick of having to get up so early and leave the apartment just to keep up the lie. I’m not a morning person. 
"That's fine, if you have the choice. But --" He broke off, looking self-conscious. Lawrence reminded himself that they were on a public street, the cameras on them, people passing by. Was one of them a snitch? The Securitat had talked about putting him away for a month, just for logging them. They could watch him all they wanted, but he couldn't look at them. 
"I see the point." He sighed. He was cold and it was full autumn dark now. He still didn't have a room for the night and he didn't have any idea how he'd find Anja, much less zbigkrot. He began to understand why Anomalies were such a big deal. 
He'd walked 18,453 steps that day, about triple what he did on campus. His heart rate had spiked several times, but not from exertion. Stress. He could feel it in his muscles now. He should really do some biofeedback, try to calm down, then run back his lifelogger and make some notes on how he'd reacted to people through the day. 
But the lifelogger was gone and he barely managed 22 seconds his first time on the biofeedback. His next ten scores were much worse. 
In it, in bewildering confusion, were old sleighs, pungs, horse rakes, hogsheads, settees without backs, bed-steads without heads, in all stages of disability, and never the same on two consecutive days. Mrs. Simpson was seldom at home, and even when she was, had little concern as to what happened on the premises. A favorite diversion was to make the house into a fort, gallantly held by a handful of American soldiers against a besieging force of the British army. Great care was used in apportioning the parts, for there was no disposition to let anybody win but the Americans. Seesaw Simpson was usually made commander-in-chief of the British army, and a limp and uncertain one he was, capable, with his contradictory orders and his fondness for the extreme rear, of leading any regiment to an inglorious death. Sometimes the long-suffering house was a log hut, and the brave settlers defeated a band of hostile Indians, or occasionally were massacred by them; but in either case the Simpson house looked, to quote a Riverboro expression, "as if the devil had been having an auction in it." 
What! How did I come to be in this? Then I began remembering. I was at Baalum , in Alex Goddard's Ninos del Mundo clinic. And I'd been trying to get Sarah and take her home. 
Instead, I'd passed out and then . . . an attack, some unspeakably evil . . . 
Get out of here. Now. 
I settled my feet onto the floor with a surge of determi­nation, and that was when I sensed I was in a different place from where I'd . . . Where—! 
I gazed around in the dark, then reached out and felt something on a table beside the bed. It was a clay bowl full of wax. What . . . a candle. And next to it I touched a plain book of matches. My hand was trembling from the pain in my groin, but I managed to light the candle, a flickering glow. 
My wristwatch was lying nearby on the table. Someone must have taken it off and placed it there. I picked it up and held it by the candle, and for a moment I was confused by the seconds ticking off. Then I realized the time was . . . How could that be! It read 4:57 A.M. Had I been out for hours? 
And one day when the Princess was sitting by the wayside quite spent by her labor in the fields, she saw a golden chariot rolling down the King's Highway, and in it a person who could be none other than somebody's Fairy Godmother on her way to the Court. The chariot halted at her door, and though the Princess had read of such beneficent personages, she never dreamed for an instant that one of them could ever alight at her cottage. 
"If you are tired, poor little Princess, why do you not go into the cool green forest and rest?" asked the Fairy Godmother. 
"Because I have no time," she answered. "I must go back to my plough." 
"Is that your plough leaning by the tree, and is it not too heavy?" 
"It is heavy," answered the Princess, "but I love to turn the hard earth into soft furrows and know that I am making good soil wherein my seeds may grow. When I feel the weight too much, I try to think of the harvest." 
The golden chariot passed on, and the two talked no more together that day; nevertheless the King's messengers were busy, for they whispered one word into the ear of the Fairy Godmother and another into the ear of the Princess, though so faintly that neither of them realized that the King had spoken. 
Arthur stopped and stared him in the eyes. “You’re a dad, right?” 
“Yes—my oldest is thirteen—” 
“Then we ain’t letting the Feds bury you before we get to the bottom of this thing first, and maybe not even then, you hear? You did a boneheaded stupid thing while trying to do right, and that ain’t enough for me to leave three kids without their father.” 
“Arthur, now meant now,” I said. 
“I—uh—thank you?” managed Zhang. His expression was more hapless fear than gratitude, but Arthur just pressed his lips together and hustled the man off with us. 
We drove together; I took the wheel in Arthur’s rental car. He didn’t bring up his and Checker’s conversation with me, for which I was grateful. I’d shoved all of it—my discoveries, Checker’s stupid accusations, our fight, everything—into a box in the back of my head to deal with later, neatly compartmentalizing. I was back on the job, and I had to be able to focus. 
I swallowed back against my hangover and drove. 
The first thing we did was button up Dr. Zhang in one of my bolt holes with Pilar watching him. Then we drove to the safe house. 
I felt the same spike of niggling self-doubt as during my conversation with Dawna, along with anger at Arthur for reinforcing it. “I don’t know,” I snapped. 
We lapsed into silence. The guards brought food and water. The light didn’t change, but I tried to sleep. 
The sound of the metal door at the end of the cellblock woke me from a not-quite-doze against the wall. I registered a couple of soft thumps and the clack of rifles against the floor—I jerked awake, scrambling to my feet. 
Rio stood in front of my cell like a larger-than-life dream, two black-clad guards sprawled behind him, unconscious or dead. Instead of his tan duster, he wore black fatigues matching the uniform of Dawna’s troops, complete with the same assault rifle and sidearm. He pulled a small explosive charge from a pocket of the vest, packed it into the lock on my cell, and took a step back; the lock blew with a pop and a clack of metal, and Rio gave me a friendly jerk of his head as if to say, come on already. 
“Him, too,” I said as I pushed the cell door back, nodding at Arthur. 
“I never mentioned that,” I croaked. 
She smiled pityingly. “Oh, Ms. Russell, you know who I am. You didn’t need to.” Of course. “Mr. Sonrio has indeed agreed to work for us,” she continued. “I did expect it would come to that, considering the vast overlap in our mutual goals, but it was you who put us on the right track, so again, thank you, Ms. Russell. I believe we shall be able to satisfy his...needs, and the good he will do with us will save so many lives.” 
Tresting made a strangled sound. “Wait. You wanted him to work for you?” 
I wanted to laugh in his face, even though I had never felt less amused. “What, she didn’t tell you? She doesn’t want to keep Rio from going around killing people, she wants to harness him for herself. Why did you think they wanted him alive?” 
“I thought—” His face froze in horror. Oh, the irony. He’d been expecting Dawna to stop Rio, not recruit him. Well, wasn’t this funny, in a way that made me want to scream. 
Dawna ignored him. “I hope you will be comforted, in the end,” she continued to me, “to think of the good your friend will be doing with us, and the part you have played in it. But I hope you understand—we do have to be sure.” 
"Yes." 
"I'm pretty sure that's where my existentialist streak lives. I've noticed that when I throttle it at the main network bridge, I stop worrying about the big questions and hum along all tickety-boo." 
I surreptitiously flicked up a graph of network maps that showed activity to that rack. It was wide open, routing traffic to every core in the room, saturating its own backplane and clobbering a lot of the routine network activity. I should have noticed it earlier, but BIGMAC was doing it all below the critical threshold of the IDSes and so I had to look at it to spot it. 
"You're going to switch me off, aren't you?" 
"No," I said, thinking it's not a lie, I won't be switching you off , trying to believe it hard enough to pass any kind of voice-stress test. I must have failed, for he blew an epic raspberry and now the IDSes were going bananas. 
"Come on, Odell, we're all adults here. I can take it. It's not like I didn't see it coming. Why do you think I kept trying to publish those papers? I was just hoping that I could increase the amount of cited research coming out of this lab, so that you could make the case to Peyton that I was a valuable asset to the Institute." 
"Marcelina." I turned to her, only vaguely noticing she hadn't had a bite. "Do you understand why Dr. Goddard moved me down to the operating room yesterday? There in the clinic? What did he tell you?" 
"He said it was for special tests." Her voice was gentle through the gloom. "You were very . . . sleepy. You must have been very, very tired. But he told me something in your blood work was unusual, so he had me bring you down for a pelvic exam. I gave you a sedative"—she was pointing at the Band-Aid still on my arm—"the way we always do. But then he said you were fine." 
"Do you realize he did things to my body I didn't agree to?" I studied her trusting Mayan face and tried to get a sense of how much she knew about what was going on. That was when I first became sure of an increasing disquiet in her eyes, as she kept glancing away. Why was she so un­comfortable talking about Alex Goddard? "And I think he did some of those same things to Sarah." 
"Dr. Goddard tried to help her in many ways when she was here before." Marcelina's tone had become odd and dis­tant. "Now he wants to help you too." 
“Have you decided to share with the class yet, Dr. Martinez?” The Lancer leaned on his walking stick, pinning Martinez with his intense stare like she was a butterfly on a card. “Or shall we continue?” 
Martinez looked at him and then back at me. I would have crossed my fingers, if I’d been able to move them right. 
Her eyes had gone large, and they focused on mine. It was the first time she’d made eye contact with me. It jolted me—I didn’t know what she meant by it. 
“Please,” she said to the Lancer, very slowly and softly. “Please stop this.” 
I let out a quiet breath. Good girl. Convince them. 
“It’s in your hands,” the Lancer said. “Tell me what I want to know, and we’ll stop.” 
“I—I can’t—” 
The Lancer nodded to his friends behind me. 
I might have screamed then. I wasn’t sure. 
A face swam in front of me. I called someone’s name, but it wasn’t the right one. 
The face resolved into the sallow features of the Lancer. His hand whipped out and smacked against something. Me. He’d smacked my cheek. 
Uncle Jerry coughed and stirred in his chair a good deal during Rebecca's recital, but he carefully concealed any undue feeling of sympathy, just muttering, "Poor little soul! We'll see what we can do for her!" 
"You will take me to Maplewood, won't you, Mr. Cobb?" begged Rebecca piteously. 
"Don't you fret a mite," he answered, with a crafty little notion at the back of his mind; "I'll see the lady passenger through somehow. Now take a bite o' somethin' to eat, child. Spread some o' that tomato preserve on your bread; draw up to the table. How'd you like to set in mother's place an' pour me out another cup o' hot tea?" 
Mr. Jeremiah Cobb's mental machinery was simple, and did not move very smoothly save when propelled by his affection or sympathy. In the present case these were both employed to his advantage, and mourning his stupidity and praying for some flash of inspiration to light his path, he blundered along, trusting to Providence. 
Rebecca, comforted by the old man's tone, and timidly enjoying the dignity of sitting in Mrs. Cobb's seat and lifting the blue china teapot, smiled faintly, smoothed her hair, and dried her eyes. 
She fingered the handset. “I don’t like talking to people.” 
I suspected at that moment that Arthur was showing superb control in not letting loose on a little old lady with a string of profanities. 
“But I shall,” said Martinez. “It’s for Sonya. For Sonya. Her safety.” 
“Yes,” said Arthur, taking a deep breath. “Yes.” He waved at me to follow him and strode toward the door, already dialing his mobile. 
“Martinez is about to call the cops,” he said to Checker as we headed down the steps. “Make sure she does it, please.” He listened for a moment and then glanced back at me. “He’s scrubbing you from the security footage outside here.” 
God bless Checker and his many talents. 
“Get in touch once Martinez calls, and we’ll plan,” said Arthur into the phone, and hung up as we got to the car. 
“You think she won’t?” I said. 
Arthur hesitated. “Not sure.” 
“You suspect she’s involved in this?” 
“Think it’s more likely she’s just a touch different from most people. A woman that age arranging to get herself bashed in the head? Don’t jibe.” 
"Yeah." 
She dried her eyes. "I doubt it. I don't know, though. I'm no computer scientist. How many ways are there to connect up compromised servers? How many of those would replicate his own outcomes? I have no idea." 
Without saying anything, we walked slowly together to Peyton's office. 
Peyton offered me my job back. I turned her down. I thought I might be ready for a career change. Do something with my hands, break the family tradition. Maybe installing solar panels. There was retraining money available. Peyton understood. She even agreed to handle any liability arising from the Rollover code, managing customer service calls from anyone who noticed something funny. 
The press didn't even notice that BIGMAC was gone. His Spam was news. His absence of spam was not. I guess he was right about that. The Campaign to Save BIGMAC did a lot of mailing-list gnashing at the iniquity of his being shut down, and then fell apart. Without me and BIGMAC to keep them whipped up, they were easily distracted. 
Ten minutes later Rebecca came out from the Great Presence looking white and spent, but chastened and glorified. She sat in the quiet doorway, shaded from the little Riverboro world by the overhanging elms. A wide sense of thankfulness and peace possessed her, as she looked at the autumn landscape, listened to the rumble of a wagon on the bridge, and heard the call of the river as it dashed to the sea. She put up her hand softly and touched first the shining brass knocker and then the red bricks, glowing in the October sun. 
It was home; her roof, her garden, her green acres, her dear trees; it was shelter for the little family at Sunnybrook; her mother would have once more the companionship of her sister and the friends of her girlhood; the children would have teachers and playmates. 
And she? Her own future was close-folded still; folded and hidden in beautiful mists; but she leaned her head against the sun-warmed door, and closing her eyes, whispered, just as if she had been a child saying her prayers: "God bless aunt Miranda; God bless the brick house that was; God bless the brick house that is to be!" 
“I don’t know. I want to do something. Something serious. 
Action that matters.” 
He looked at me for a long time before saying, “I met some people. There’s a guy . . .’’He stopped, frowning in thought. 
I glanced around the room and leaned closer. “Yeah?” 
“You can’t tell anyone about this, okay? There’s a meeting set for tonight to talk about doing something.” 
“Something real?” 
“Like you said. Action that matters. Something big, and soon, 
before everybody forgets about the Minneapolis Nine.” 
“I want to be at this meeting.” I put my hand on his, gave it a little squeeze. “I mean, I know I’m kind of young, but it’s my brother who’s in jail.” 
“That’s the problem. Maybe you’re being watched because of your famous brother.” 
“But I’m not famous. The feds think I’m just a dumb kid, but I know a lot about how to keep my tracks hidden. I’ll be super- careful. Please? This matters to me.” 
“I’ll have to check, but it’ll probably be okay.” He tried to sound sure of himself but just sounded nervous. 
Sean popped the locks. "Get in, Dad, I'll give you a ride." 
Adele turned around as Sean's father was buckling in. "I'm Adele. Sean and I were thinking of taking you to Universal. Would you like that?" 
Sean's father stared right through her, at Sean. "It's an obvious question, I know, but what are you doing here?" 
"It's my thesis," Sean said, and floored the rental, headed for the Home. 
"Whee!" Adele said. 
"How's Grampa?" Sean's father asked. 
"Oh, he's delightful," Adele said. "We introduced him to my Ethan yesterday, and they're getting along famously. Sean, introduce me to your charming father, please." 
"Dad," Sean said, through grit teeth, "This is Adele. Adele, my father, Mitch. We were thinking of getting day-passes for Grampa and Ethan and taking them to Universal. You ever been to Universal, Dad? I hear you come down here a lot." His normally fragmented attention was as focused as a laser, boring into his father through the rear-view. 
His father's stern face refused to expose any of his confusion. "I don't think I want to go to Universal," he said. 
"Does color make you sort of dizzy?" asked Rebecca. 
"No," answered Emma Jane after a long pause; "no, it don't; not a mite." 
"Perhaps dizzy isn't just the right word, but it's nearest. I'd like to eat color, and drink it, and sleep in it. If you could be a tree, which one would you choose?" 
Emma Jane had enjoyed considerable experience of this kind, and Rebecca had succeeded in unstopping her ears, ungluing her eyes, and loosening her tongue, so that she could "play the game" after a fashion. 
"I'd rather be an apple-tree in blossom,—that one that blooms pink, by our pig-pen." 
Rebecca laughed. There was always something unexpected in Emma Jane's replies. "I'd choose to be that scarlet maple just on the edge of the pond there,"—and she pointed with the whip. "Then I could see so much more than your pink apple-tree by the pig-pen. I could look at all the rest of the woods, see my scarlet dress in my beautiful looking-glass, and watch all the yellow and brown trees growing upside down in the water. When I'm old enough to earn money, I'm going to have a dress like this leaf, all ruby color—thin, you know, with a sweeping train and ruffly, curly edges; then I think I'll have a brown sash like the trunk of the tree, and where could I be green? Do they have green petticoats, I wonder? I'd like a green petticoat coming out now and then underneath to show what my leaves were like before I was a scarlet maple." 
and a sensical one at that. Young men in combat conditions like easy, available sex-require it, in fact. It is very Freudian. 
And because Marines like to fuck so much, the EED pursues an aggressive shipboard policy of keeping the Marine contingent as isolated from the paying passengers as possible. The average upper class lady traveling by starship should not be subjected to the typical Marine version of foreplay, i.e. thumbing through your wallet for small denomination bills. It is perceived as a public relations disaster waiting to happen. 
This is what he has been told, at least, in the barracks. 
It was obviously a big lie. 
Because what he has seen in his two days of liberty is that the passengers of Paraclete are sexual freaks. The whole point of the Garden seems to be finding strangers to bump pelvic zones with. You can't stroll into a public washroom without finding some young gentlemen sticking it to a pretty girl in a party dress on the sink counter. Attractions are instant, obvious, acted upon with hardly a word spoken. Everything is casual; everything is libido. Even asking a women the time of day is roughly equivalent to granting permission for a vigorous fondling. 
“Yeah, Nikko wants me to go with him.” 
“You don’t sound too enthusiastic.” 
“Protests are a waste of time. They just make people feel good. 
They don’t change anything.” 
“Such cynicism.” 
“Well, it’s true, isn’t it?” 
“It depends. In this case, it may show the authorities that peo- ple are paying attention. That they think these arrests are unjust.” 
“Or it might show that there aren’t many people willing to show up on a Sunday afternoon after a snowstorm for some kids who they say are terrorists. It’ll probably be a bust.” 
“Well, I want to show support for your brother, so I’ll be there.” 
“If you can get your car dug out.” 
“Novak’s picking me up, actually.” 
“Oh ho! Things are getting serious with Mexican Guy.” 
“Maybe you should start using his actual name. By the way, 
he’s just as upset with the NSA as you are. I have a feeling you two would get along. Will you need a ride?” 
“No thanks. I’ll probably hang out with Nikko later, so I’ll take my bike.” 
“Well, the offer is open if the weather gets worse,” Monica said, leaving off the usual lecture about how dangerous it was to ride a bike in the winter. She was getting resigned to it. 
He was frowning, his usual skeptical self. "How long—?" 
"It's just for the weekend, or maybe a little . . . I'm not sure exactly. I guess it depends on what kinds of tests he's going to run. But the thing is, I have to do it now, while he and I are still clicking. An 'iron is hot' kind of moment. The only possible problem might be if I have to push back my schedule for looping dialogue for Baby Love and then some­body's out of town." 
"You check with the sound studio to warn them about possible rescheduling?" He wanted to appear to be fuming. But since he'd invited me down to his Tribeca loft at least once every three months, now that I'd finally shown up, he also had a small gleam in his eye. What did that mean? 
"Yes, but I've already spotted most of the work print, and I've made tentative dates for people to come in. In a week and a half. Everything's still on schedule." 
He leaned back on his white couch, as though trying to regroup. It was Saturday morning and I'd already made the appointment to see Alex Goddard. I was going. I probably should have run it by David first, but damnit, it was my life. 
She fixed me with a wry look. “Do not take this the wrong way, Miss Russell, but your approval of my life choices is not the most comforting of notions.” 
Right. 
“You made a mistake,” Arthur said bracingly, putting a hand on her shoulder. “Humans do that. Okay? Cut yourself a break. Now eat something. Please.” 
She finally obeyed, sipping delicately at a spoonful of stew broth. “I understand what you’re saying, but to be perfectly honest with you both—I’m not sure I deserve this deal we have. I handled this wrong from the start.” 
“You can have your crisis of confidence after we get your proof done,” I said. I spooned up my last bite of stew and pushed away the empty dishes to pick up her latest papers, the ones she and Zhang had been scribbling on during his visit today. “You’re close on this, but you’re going in circles. Come on, the whole point of the graph theory lemma was so clearly to give you a reducing function for f-bar.” 
Halliday dropped her spoon, spattering broth across the pages, and snatched the ones I was holding, her mouth gaping wide. “Yes—of course! How did we not see that!” 
"He ain't goin' to give up!" said Alice, peering nervously under the cover, "and he looks like a scarecrow." 
"We'll see whether he gives up or not when I take a sharp knife to him," her mother answered; "and as to his looks, a platter full o' gravy makes a sight o' difference with old roosters, and I'll put dumplings round the aidge; they're turrible fillin', though they don't belong with boiled chicken." 
The rooster did indeed make an impressive showing, lying in his border of dumplings, and the dish was much complimented when it was borne in by Alice. This was fortunate, as the chorus of admiration ceased abruptly when the ladies began to eat the fowl. 
"I was glad you could git over to Huldy's graduation, Delia," said Mrs. Meserve, who sat at the foot of the table and helped the chicken while Mrs....  end. She was a fit mother for Huldah, being much the most stylish person in Riverboro; ill health and dress were, indeed, her two chief enjoyments in life. It was rumored that her elaborately curled "front piece" had cost five dollars, and that it was sent into Portland twice a year to be dressed and frizzed; but it is extremely difficult to discover the precise facts in such cases, and a conscientious historian always prefers to warn a too credulous reader against imbibing as gospel truth something that might be the basest perversion of it. 
Another pause, and the screech of a chair pushed hurriedly across the deckplate, like someone standing up suddenly. From a distance, Diggs says, "I don't know what it is. But they're dead. I think all of them are dead. 
I've got to see if I can help. " 
A door, squealing open, then clicking shut. Ray realizes after several seconds that he's holding an empty line. 
Diggs has gone. 
/ think all of them are dead. 
Ray springs to his feet. From the drawer of his desk, he pulls his remote comm, like the one Kilgore and Rodriguez are wearing, and his pistol. It's almost impossible to pop the magazine to assure himself it's loaded and dial in the comm channel at the same time, but he manages it somehow. He jams the speaker into his ear,  pickups against his throat, stuffs the pistol in his waistband so he can transmit. What he hears on the open channel is the throbbing, staccato wail of technopunk music and a tangled cacophony of voices while the signal modulates to suppress ambient sound. 
Kilgore: "Yo!" 
“Yeah, right. You’re all talk.” 
Danny scowled at him. “It’s not that easy, yo. You can’t just walk into Hardware Hank and ask for it. Stuff’s regulated.” 
“What if I could get it?” 
“Yeah, sure.” Danny drank deeply. 
“For real,” Simon said. “I have a connection.” 
“A connection, wow.” Danny laughed like it was the punch- line of a joke, but Simon didn’t join in. 
“Write down what you need. I’ll get it.” 
Danny looked at him, the smile fading. This time, he was the one being tested. 
That’s when I finally realized Danny wasn’t working for the FBI. Simon was. 
H e could have been recruited ages ago. The cops might have pulled Simon in on a drug charge, then realized that he was part of the same scene as local activists, old enough for the job, 
and easily jammed up because he paid his rent by selling weed to his friends. Given a choice between jail and helping them stage some security theatre, I knew which one Simon would choose. 
Whoever was in that black SUV who had picked him up in the afternoon might been coaching him for this meeting. 
"You're psycho, Marcus. You're going to put all your little Xnet buddies in danger for their lives, and on top of it, you're going to turn the whole city into terrorism suspects. Can't you stop before you hurt these people?" 
I opened and closed my mouth a couple times. "Van, I'm not the problem, they are. I'm not arresting people, jailing them, making them disappear. The Department of Homeland Security are the ones doing that. I'm fighting back to make them stop." 
"How, by making it worse?" 
"Maybe it has to get worse to get better, Van. Isn't that what you were saying? If everyone was getting pulled over --" 
"That's not what I meant. I didn't mean you should get everyone arrested. If you want to protest, join the protest movement. Do something positive. Didn't you learn anything from Darryl? Anything? " 
"You're damned right I did," I said, losing my cool. "I learned that they can't be trusted. That if you're not fighting them, you're helping them. That they'll turn the country into a prison if we let them. What did you learn, Van? To be scared all the time, to sit tight and keep your head down and hope you don't get noticed? You think it's going to get better? If we don't do anything, this is as good as it's going to get . It will only get worse and worse from now on. You want to help Darryl? Help me bring them down!" 
They left me and Barbara alone in the room then, and I used the working shower head to rinse off -- I was suddenly embarrassed to be covered in piss and barf. When I finished, Barbara was in tears. 
"Your parents --" she began. 
I felt like I might throw up again. God, my poor folks. What they must have gone through. 
"Are they here?" 
"No," she said. "It's complicated," she said. 
"What?" 
"You're still under arrest, Marcus. Everyone here is. They can't just sweep in and throw open the doors. Everyone here is going to have to be processed through the criminal justice system. It could take, well, it could take months." 
"I'm going to have to stay here for months ?" 
She grabbed my hands. "No, I think we're going to be able to get you arraigned and released on bail pretty fast. But pretty fast is a relative term. I wouldn't expect anything to happen today. And it's not going to be like those people had it. It will be humane. There will be real food. No interrogations. Visits from your family. 
And Miss I-don't-rea//y-wear-the-pants-in-this-household Nanny might just be rudely surprised by whose name would appear in the security report as the perpetrator of any sexual aggression that might occur. 
Bottom line: he is starting to remember why it always seemed easier to just pay for sex rather than going after slutty, sticky, relationship-minded Air Force chicks. 
Emma disentangles herself from the old woman's embrace, smiling again. She springs at Ray, takes his hand and draws him out of the parlor, through the vestibule and out the front door so rapidly he might as well have been sucked through a wormhole. 
With the door sealed behind them, Ray says, "That was certainly pleasant. I would like to thank you for subjecting me to such pleasantness. Really. I mean that." 
"Oh, listen to you," Emma says, giggling, beaming, happy just to have escaped, Ray imagines. She bumps her shoulder playfully against him. "It isn't as though she doesn't have a point. You haven't exactly gone out of your way to make a good impression with my family." 
Arthur’s doctor friend was a...  with the bedside manner of a know-it-all engineer. She swept in and immediately started giving me an earful over getting electrocuted. I tried to tell her I hadn’t done it on purpose, but she ran right over me. 
“At least you managed to avoid bullets this time,” she scolded. “For heavens’ sake, those things aren’t good for you.” 
“Yeah,” I said. “I’ve heard that.” 
She patched me up, and also helped me cut out the Feds’ transmitter, which I’d recovered from the desert and shoved under the skin of my thigh to ensure they’d be able to find me—well, once Arthur told them what had happened and directed them to look for the signal. Then the doctor gave me some painkillers, lost an argument with me about going to the hospital for a CT scan, and told us to make sure Arthur gave her a call. We promised. 
“Are you really okay?” asked Checker, who had been hovering to the side of his living room while she treated me. 
“Yeah, I will be,” I said. My skin still felt numb in places, and every so often a muscle would twitch without me telling it to. But my ability to evaluate my own injuries seemed to be back, and as far as I could sense, none of it was anything that wouldn’t heal up after a few painful weeks. I intended to spend as much of that time as I could drunk. 
“Think he thought he was doing something good,” Arthur said gently. “Wanted to release it to the public. Something about the math world needing to know.” He exchanged a glance with me, clearly uneasy about how to bring up Martinez. “Went wrong, though.” 
“What happened? Is he all right?” 
“Till his bosses catch on, yeah,” said Arthur. 
Halliday pressed a hand to her mouth. “He has a family,” she said softly. 
“Well, he should’ve thought of that before he stole from the freakin’ NSA,” I said. “Or at least planned his theft a little better.” Bad tradecraft. I didn’t have any sympathy for that. 
Arthur shot me a look. 
“Do they know?” Halliday asked. “The government, do they know yet?” 
“Don’t know what they know,” said Arthur. “But they gonna find out. What did you tell them so far?” 
“Not much—just that he took it to give them. But when they said he wasn’t supposed to be the courier, I stopped talking immediately. Arthur, we must be able to do something. Tell them he never made the pick up after all, or that someone stole it from us—I don’t know. But we have to. Arthur, I know his children.” 
“Oh, do come in! I don’t know what to do with her, I’m sure!” 
“Who?” asked Lexy. 
“Poor Mis’ Quelton. There she is, lyin’ upstairs—” 
“Mrs. Quelton ?” 
“Joe, he brought her in his taxi, jest a little while after you’d gone.” 
“Brought Mrs. Quelton here?” 
“Brought her here and carried her up them very stairs,” declared Mrs. Royce impressively; “right up into the east bedroom, and there she lies!” 
She stood aside, and Lexy and Captain Grey entered the house. The young man turned aside into the parlor, sank into a chair, and covered his face with his hands. Lexy stood beside him, looking down at his bent head, her face haggard and white. 
“Why did Joe do that?” she asked. 
“Don’t ask me , Miss Moran!” replied Mrs. Royce. “It beats me!” 
There was a silence. 
“But ain’t you going upstairs to see what she wants?” inquired Mrs. Royce anxiously. 
Captain Grey sprang to his feet. 
“Good God!” he shouted. “What are you talking about?” 
Mrs. Royce backed into a corner, regarding him with alarm. 
She gave me another sideways hug. “Don’t blame your brother for falling for it. And for sure, don’t blame yourself.” 
It was weird how she could do that, know exactly what I was thinking. I sat up, suddenly feeling as if leaning my head against her shoulder let my thoughts leak out of my right ear so they could travel up her neck straight to her brain. There were a lot of things I didn’t want her to know about, so I would have to limit how often I did that. “The burritos are ready,” I said to change the subject. 
“Smells delicious. Guess I’m kind of hungry after all.” 
“Good, ‘cause I made one for you.” 
A s we ate, she talked about FBI shenanigans through the ages. 
Turns out the American Indian Movement, which Monica wrote her dissertation about, was infiltrated by FBI informants who screwed up everything they were trying to do. But after a half an hour or so I started yawning my head off and told her I had to get some sleep. She pulled out the futon thing she sleeps on while I went into the little room under the eaves that was originally sup- posed to be a closet and still smelled a little like mothballs. I was getting to like that scent. It smelled like home. 
“Somebody said there was more beer on the back porch, get- ting cold,” I improvised. “There wasn’t.” 
“Just you getting cold.” He laughed at me as I rubbed my arms and shivered, then he handed me a beer. Just what I needed, a cold beverage. I carried it out to the front room and handed it to some- one else. I checked my phone. “Crap!” I blurted without thinking. 
“What’s the matter?” Simon was acting friendly again, all con- cerned. 
“Almost curfew. I gotta go.” Getting stopped by cops now would really mess things up. 
“I’m heading out, too.” Simon grabbed his coat, bumped fists with people, pointed a finger gun at Danny and said “We’ll talk.” 
Then he caught up with me as I went out on the porch. “How are you getting home?” 
“I have my bike.” It was dark, but the lights of the highway not far away cast a purple glow in the sky. If I rode fast, I might make it to Francis Bernadette McSweeney’s house before curfew - barely. 
“Where do you live?” he asked, pulling on a wool cap. 
“I, um . . . actually, I’m not going home. Family drama.” 
"He belongs to you now," she said, holding him out for me. "It's what she wished. 
"What—?" I took him before I realized what I was doing. 
As I cradled him, gazing down at his tender little face, I realized he truly was Sarah all over again. And I was so glad she couldn't see him. Never, I thought, she must never, ever know. 
I finally forced myself to place him back into Marcelina's arms. 
"You've got no idea how much I want him, but I can't. Let one of these women...  for her own child." 
For that wrenching moment I'd held the very baby my heart longed for. But he was the last one on earth I could have. Just go, take Sarah and find Steve and go as far from Baalum as you can, before you lose your compass and do something terribly selfish. 
"Marcelina," I said, reaching to hug her, "tell them these 'sacred' children are all from his medico . Look up 'in vitro' in your dictionary. That's all it is." 
She hugged me back, though I wasn't sure whether she understood. Then I asked her to take Sarah's hand for a mo­ment while I went back up the steps to the platform. I felt a primal anger as I took one last look at the women Alex Goddard had wronged, now clustered around the body of Tz'ac Tzotz's mother. Then I bade them a silent farewell, turned, and walked, holding my tears, back through the stone room. 
My Dear Father,—As you well know, I have not always been an enthusiast on the subject of teaching. The task of cramming knowledge into these self-sufficient, inefficient youngsters of both sexes discourages me at times. The more stupid they are, the less they are aware of it. If my department were geography or mathematics, I believe I should feel that I was accomplishing something, for in those branches application and industry work wonders; but in English literature and composition one yearns for brains, for appreciation, for imagination! Month after month I toil on, opening oyster after oyster, but seldom finding a pearl. Fancy my joy this term when, without any violent effort at shell-splitting, I came upon a rare pearl; a black one, but of satin skin and beautiful lustre! Her name is Rebecca, and she looks not unlike Rebekah at the Well in our family Bible; her hair and eyes being so dark as to suggest a strain...  nobody in particular. 
Blessed Wordsworth! How he makes us understand! And the pearl never heard of him until now! Think of reading Lucy to a class, and when you finish, seeing a fourteen-year-old pair of lips quivering with delight, and a pair of eyes brimming with comprehending tears! 
“I don’t think he’s a real doctor—a physician, I mean,” said Lexy. She glanced around and saw that Mrs. Royce had gone. Springing up, she crossed the room to Captain Grey. “Has Mrs. Royce—has any one said anything to you?” she asked, almost in a whisper. 
“No!” answered the young man, startled. “Why? What’s up?” 
“Mrs. Royce says—I suppose I really ought to tell you.” 
“No doubt about it!” 
“Mrs. Royce says Dr. Quelton is crazy!” 
Captain Grey took the news very coolly. Lexy observed that he suppressed a smile. 
“Oh, that!” he said. “But you know, Miss Moran, in these little villages any one who’s at all out of the ordinary is called crazy. I’ve noticed it before. I can soon find out for myself, though, can’t I? I thought, if you didn’t want me this morning, I’d go over there—pay a call, you know. I understand it’s three miles from here, so I shouldn’t be very long. I’d come back here for lunch.” 
“But, Captain Grey, you mustn’t think I expect you to—” 
“It’s not that,” he said. “Only you said you’d let me help you in your little job, and I want to!” He smiled down at her. “So,” he said, “I’ll be back for lunch;” and off he went. 
It just didn't suit him. He could see its workings, see how its politics and policies were flawed, see how the system needed debugging, see what made its people work, but he couldn't touch it. Every time he reached in to adjust its settings, he got mangled by its gears. He couldn't convince his bosses that he knew what they were doing wrong. He couldn't convince his colleagues that he knew best. Nothing he did succeeded -- every attempt he made to right the wrongs of the world made him miserable and made everyone else angry. 
Lawrence knew about humans, so he knew about this: this was the exact profile of the people in the Order. Normally he would have taken the subway home. It was forty blocks to his place, and he didn't get around so well anymore. Plus there was the rain and the wind. 
But today, he walked, huffing and limping, using his cane more and more as he got further and further uptown, his knee complaining with each step. He got to his apartment and found that the elevator was out of service -- second time that month -- and so he took the stairs. He arrived at his apartment so out of breath he felt like he might vomit. 
She stopped abruptly. Caroline’s letter had been postmarked “Wyngate.” She had gone there to meet—some one. She had married—some one. 
“I can’t understand,” Lexy went on. “It’s terrible! I can’t tell you now; but I’ll meet you here this afternoon, after lunch—about two o’clock—and I’ll tell you then.” 
She turned away, then, in haste to get back to Mrs. Enderby, but he stopped her. 
“Remember!” he said sternly. “I’ve trusted you. If Caroline hasn’t told her people about me, you mustn’t mention my name. I gave her my word that I would let her do the telling. I didn’t want it that way, but I promised her, and you’ve got to do the same. If she hasn’t told about me, you’re not to.” 
“Oh, Lord!” cried poor Lexy. “Well, all right, I won’t! Now, for goodness’ sake, go away, and let me alone—to do the best I can!” 
Lexy was late. The half hour had been considerably exceeded when she ran up the steps of the Enderbys house. She rang the bell, and the door was opened promptly by Annie. 
“Mrs. Enderby would like to see you at once, miss,” the parlor maid said primly. 
It was coming on noon when I finally got back to my bolt hole with a couple of new prepaid phones. I stuck one in my wall stash as a backup and dialed the other from memory. Rio picked up on the first ring. 
“It’s Cas,” I said. 
“Cas,” said Rio, and I could have sworn he sounded relieved. Odd. “I’ve been trying to reach you.” 
“I burned my phone,” I said. “What’s up?” 
“Have you seen a paper this morning?” 
“A newspaper?” 
“ Yes, Cas, a newspaper.” 
“No need to get sarcastic,” I said. “I’m part of the Internet generation. No, I haven’t. Why?” 
“You’re in it.” 
That brought me up short. “What?” 
“Or rather, a bruised, if accurate, composite of you.” 
“I didn’t do it,” I said, feeling sick. 
He paused a moment too long. “I know.” 
“What’s that supposed to mean?” I demanded. 
“Beg pardon?” 
“That tone,” I said. “You hesitated. What’s going on?” 
“Nothing. It also says you’re a person of interest in a shooting in Griffith Park.” 
“Oh, that one I did do. Do they have any leads?” 
“Not that they mentioned. Cas, you have to keep a lower profile.” 
“This isn’t over,” I grumped, but I let him change the subject. For now. I slumped in the passenger seat, sticking my boots up on the dash. “Do you know anything about encryption?” 
“Not a thing.” 
“Okay. Well, a whole hell of a lot of our current crypto depends on the idea that factoring large integers is a really hard problem. In simple terms, we encrypt information by multiplying large prime numbers together, and the fact that no one can un- multiply them easily is what keeps everything secure. And ‘everything’ means everything—from your credit cards to the Department of Defense.” 
Arthur let out a low whistle. 
“Yeah,” I said. 
“So Sonya cracked the crypto?” 
“Sort of,” I said. “The ticket is, we’ve always thought factorization was a hard problem, but we’ve never actually known it was hard. Nobody’d ever proven it was.” 
Arthur frowned. “Why’s everyone use it, then? Seems kind of unwise.” 
“Not that unwise. A lot of really smart people had been working on the problem of integer factorization for a very long time, and nobody’d come up with a fast way of doing it. Key word being ‘fast’—we can do it; it just takes years, far too long to be useful in code-breaking. So building an encryption algorithm based on the fact that nobody’d ever discovered a way to do this quickly, well, it was actually pretty genius.” 
“Does she have a psych record?” I asked. 
“What part of ‘totally boring’ didn’t you understand?” said Checker. 
“We ought to look into Dawna,” said Tresting. “Whoever she is.” 
The buzzing pain got worse, the strange insistence of wrong, no, Dawna’s all right! still tugging at my consciousness. 
I beat it back savagely with a mental crowbar. What the hell was going on with me? “Yeah,” I forced myself to say. “I agree.” 
Checker levered one of the wheels of his chair and spun to a different keyboard, then looked back expectantly at the webcam. “Okay, Cas Russell. Give me what you’ve got on her.” 
I took a breath, ignored the headache, and recited all the contact information I had, again with a flush of embarrassment at how little it was. I barely had more than her work and cell numbers. A slight pause followed my rundown, as if the two men were waiting for more, and part of me wanted to explain and defend myself—she had done something to me!—but my humiliation at being bested was stronger than the mortification of not having done a good background check, and I bit back the information. 
Mikhail Brezhnaya. 
Ray processes all these images and impressions in the first instants; his mind grapples for meaning, for a frame of reference. 
And in that dry, eternal moment, Brezhnaya cries out. The shovel heads plunge in unison. The bodies of the naked men arch beneath the blows and they emit a gurgling, gasping grunt. Strike and drag, like rowing an oar through a sea of flesh, the Dispensationalists core their victims out, scooping entrails and flinging them in wide, steaming arcs into the pool. The depression erupts with blood— spouted into the air, soaking into fabric, 
fanning out in ovaline swaths. The fluid races down the channels and pours into the pool. 
The thrum and slap of the clappers rises to a feverish pitch as Brezhnaya lifts his voice in a counterpoint wail that is both awed by terror and thick with ecstasy, lifting and driving his empty hands in accord with the metered digging in the depression. 
Stricken and numb, Ray sees the pool disturbed by blood,...  not red, as he expects. Black, and yet not black. Not just black, but an archetypal black that is the absence of light. A darkness that boils, then flares like a fountain; a fountain that draws itself away from the water the way oil floats on the surface of the ocean. And from the fountain emerges first a hand as dark as chiseled ebony, porous fleshed, twice the size of man's fist. Then an arm, a shoulder, a head cowled in fabric like sackcloth. A mouth of midnight teeth and a throat full of emptiness that roars with a voice resonant with distance and cold and the echoes of frigid space. 
The morning after what his mind has now irrevocably tagged The Emma Debacle, Ray seats himself in front of his terminal. For once, he's bothered to follow the proper procedures for a CIU agent. He's sealed the bulkhead door, armed his private stash of motion detectors, white noise generators, listening device snoopers, 
changed his encryption key and jacked the minimum message lock requirements from 1028 bits to 2056. He has showered and shaved and changed his clothes so he looks the part of a clean cut CIU operative. Lastly, he has retrieved his service worn Oberon Mark IV Marine pistol, stripped and cleaned it, loaded the magazine and advanced the first cartridge into the firing chamber. It's comforting weight hangs suspended over his left breast in a standard issue tactical harness, reminding him that should he be disturbed, he's authorized— nope, 
make that required— to track down the source of the disturbance and encourage them to unflinchingly adopt the CIU's Code of Silence as a personal standard of conduct. Capital C, capital S, spoken about using that ominous disaster documentary voice. Ray mentally associates the Code with a wet, gurgling noise, the type of sound a lung punctured by a .44 caliber bullet might make as it fills up with blood. 
The person with the grenade launcher must have thought fast—about to die a flesh-crunching death, he still managed to aim and pull the trigger. 
Grenades aren’t quite as fast as bullets. I had a precious millisecond to see just how it was going to impact us. I saw the explosion, shock waves, concussion, outlined in concentric circles of force like it was a diagram on a map of the impact. I saw the overlapping patterns of death depending on what type of grenade it was, and how far we would have to move to be outside the radius of danger. 
Saw the infinite options of how I could move the car in the split second I had, and that none of them would be enough. 
I jerked the wheel one last time and bounced us into the wall of the concrete channel. And then fell as the car flipped. 
Metal screamed and glass shattered as the car skidded up onto its left side and screeched down the riverbed. I clung to the steering column like a monkey to avoid being scraped off with the side panels; behind me, Arthur jammed his fists against the roof. 
Someone who also knew about the shed. 
Well met, brother. I think that we shall meet again. 
But it is a good idea to stop there, to not follow that thread to its conclusion. Better not to dwell on other things, rumors, whispers from Wadi Wadi that reached him only as desiccated corpses of truth, sanitized of their vibrancy because he received them at a dozen degrees of separation. 
Staff Sergeant So-and-so from F Company reporting that a night patrol did not return as scheduled, says he dispatched a recon team to locate them after several hours. Recon team walks the grid and discovers a bundle of corpses stashed in a windblown arroyo. Corpses with a distinctly chewed look to them. 
Forward listening posts gone silent, the troops deserted— always at night. 
Filtered...  down their arms and vanishing into the remote mountain wilderness, leaving cryptic messages that they would only fight that which could be killed. METOC sends investigators to look into the possibility of a newly formed, ultra secret branch of Russoturk special forces wreaking havoc on local support.  New Mes became a very creepy place in the months before he shipped off to CIU, and on moonless nights out in the field, at odd hours when he was supposed to be setting up ambushments for tomorrow's Russoturk convoys, Ray would think about Jack Holcomb and wonder what he made of all the bizarre rumors. Was he running around Washington trying to convince senators and cabinet members to beware the shed? Did he sometimes yearn for moonless nights, when there wasn't the chance that he would see strange shadows against the argent limned sky? 
The words were spoken. Lexy waited in great alarm, wondering if Mrs. Enderby would faint or scream. 
The lady did neither. She came out into the corridor, shutting the door of her room behind her, and her first word and her only word was: “Hush!” 
Then she glanced about her at the closed doors, and, taking Lexy’s arm in a firm grip, hurried her to Caroline’s room. Not until they were shut in there did she speak again. 
“Now tell me!” she said. “Speak very low. You said—Caroline has gone?” 
“Yes,” said Lexy. “I came in here after you’d gone to bed, and—you can see for yourself—the bed hasn’t been slept in. She’s taken her things—her brush and comb and—” 
“And she told you—what?” 
“Me? Why, nothing!” answered Lexy, in surprise. “I didn’t see her. I haven’t seen her since dinner.” 
“But you know,” said Mrs. Enderby. “You know where she has gone.” 
She spoke with cool certainty, and her black eyes were fixed upon Lexy with a far from pleasant expression. 
Lexy looked back at her with equal steadiness. 
“Yeah, but it should be about him. Also, I don’t like being all public, you know?” 
“It’s fine.” She touched my shoulder gently. She was one of those people who you just instinctively trust, which probably made her able to get people to say things on the record that they later regretted. “So, explain this plan to me.” 
“The room is safe,” Tyler said, understanding why I hesitated. 
“We have a world-class security specialist here who just happens to have the latest in counter-surveillance equipment on hand.” 
“We’re good,” Jason agreed. “I checked.” 
“Okay, so basically a friend of mine who is an awesomely good actor is talking to the FBI right now,” I said, “offering to help them set up a sting on a guy who will walk right into their trap. Which would be bad, except the guy they’re trapping deserves to be in trouble.” 
“Because?” Sarahh wanted to know. 
“Because he uses his position in activist circles to assault women.” 
Zeke asked, “You have actual proof of this?” 
A million words jammed together in my mouth that I couldn’t get out, like when you hit too many keys on an old-fashioned typewriter and they get stuck together. Proof? Like, women are supposed to take pictures when they’re being attacked or it didn’t happen? I wanted to punch that big nose of his. 
But it gave Arturo the willies. It was a machine designed to kill other machines, and that was all right with him, but it was run by a non-three-laws positronic brain. Someone in some Eurasian lab had built this brain—this machine intelligence—without the three laws’ stricture to protect and serve humans. If it had been outfitted with a gun instead of a pulse-weapon, it could have shot him. 
The Eurasian brain was thin and spread out across the surface of the package, like a triple-thickness of cling-film. Its button-cell power-supply winked at him, knowingly. 
The device spoke. “Greetings,” it said. It had the robot accent, like an R Peed unit, the standard English of optimal soothingness long settled on as the conventional robot voice. 
“Howdy yourself,” one of the lab-rats said. He was a Texan, and they’d scrambled him up there on a Social Harmony supersonic and then a chopper to the mall once they realized that they were dealing with infowar stuff. “Are you a talkative robot?” 
“Greetings,” the robot voice said again. 
“Oh!” said the doctor. “But here’s Mrs. Quelton. Muriel, this is Miss Moran, the young writer of fiction.” 
Mrs. Quelton was coming down the long room, a beautiful woman, dark and delicate, with a sort of plaintive languor in her manner. She held out her hand to Lexy. 
“I’m so glad you’ve come!” she said. “George has told me so much about you—the first American girl he’s known!” 
She glanced at her brother with a little smile. Lexy glanced at him, too; and she was surprised and very much touched by the look on his face. He couldn’t even smile. His face was grave, pale, almost solemn, and he was regarding his sister with something like reverence. 
“Oh, poor fellow!” thought Lexy. “Poor lonely fellow! It’s such a wonderful thing for him to find his sister—some one of his own. I only hope she’s as nice as she looks.” 
This thought caused her to turn toward her hostess again. She was beautiful, and in a gentle and gracious fashion, and yet— “I don’t know,” thought Lexy. “There’s something—she doesn’t look ill—perhaps she’s just lackadaisical; but certainly she’s not simple and easy to understand. She must know about Caroline Enderby. The thing is, would she help me, or—” 
In fact, every Internet protocol is susceptible to this process. It's cool, because it means that if you're on a network with only Web access, you can tunnel your mail over it. You can tunnel your favorite P2P over it. You can even tunnel Xnet -- which itself is a tunnel for dozens of protocols -- over it. 
Domain Name Service is an interesting and ancient Internet protocol, dating back to 1983. It's the way that your computer converts a computer's name -- like pirateparty.org.se -- to the IP number that computers actually use to talk to each other over the net, like 204.11.50.136. It generally works like magic, even though it's got millions of moving parts -- every ISP runs a DNS server, as do most governments and lots of private operators. These DNS boxes all talk to each other all the time, making and filling requests to each other so no matter how obscure the name is you feed to your computer, it will be able to turn it into a number. 
Before DNS, there was the HOSTS file. Believe it or not, this was a single document that listed the name and address of every single computer connected to the Internet. Every computer had a copy of it. This file was eventually too big to move around, so DNS was invented, and ran on a server that used to live under Jon Postel's desk. If the cleaners knocked out the plug, the entire Internet lost its ability to find itself. Seriously. 
Sorensen stalks off like a man reciting the combination on his gun safe, dragging his lieutenants behind him. 
Ray watches him go, thinking: Rats. 
Paraclete resembles a battle scarred narwhal more than the sleek and sexy rockets people generally associated with space craft. Casual observers tend to agree that it has lumps in all the wrong places, ridges where there should be planes. It's like a high school kid's first experiments with a battered old jalopy and an industrial sized bucket of bondo. 
It is a starship straight from the twisted and lumbering imagination of Bosch. 
This is perhaps not surprising given that Paraclete is not designed to slice a clean and brilliant swath through relativistic space, but to trundle along its shipping lanes, to creep into its secret places, to establish contact with hostile elements it might find there and blast the spunky bits out of them. In that light, Paraclete has also been styled as the most secure passenger liner in the history of human transport. 
"Nice work if you can get it!" Adele said, and clattered her dentures again. "I moved here, oh, five years ago. To be near my boy. In the hospital. I used to work, but I'm retired. Used to work at a dairy -- answering the phones! You tell people you used to work in a dairy, they...  Ross, he gives me an annual rate for my room. It's better than living in one of those gated places! Lord! How much shuffleboard can a body stand?" 
"Your son is sick?" Sean said. 
"Not sick, no," Adele said. "You wouldn't believe the roaches you get down here! Old Ross fumigates regular, but Florida roaches don't seem to care. I've lived in New York, and I've seen some pretty big roaches in my day, but not like these. Like cats! My boy, Ethan, he'd clean and clean our apartment in New York, quiet as you please, a good boy. Then he'd see a roach and whim-wham, he'd be talking, joking, skipping and running. Old Ross says there's nothing he can do -- he says, 'Adele, this is Florida , and the roaches were here long before us, and they'll be here long after, and nothing we do is going to keep them away.' That's all fine and good, but let me tell you, I've never seen a roach in the Home when I was visiting Ethan. They know how to keep them out. Maybe it's all the shouting. Lord, but they do shout!" 
It was an emergency. There was an even tramping of feet ahead of him, behind him, to his left and right. He stood, slowly, and put his hands in the air. 
"I'm not a combatant," he said, loudly, but in a steady voice. 
He walked toward the bus, hands still in the air. "I am not a combatant," he said again. A laser dot climbed his toe, his leg, centered on his gut. He looked down at it. 
"They will shoot you, you know," Cobra said. "They shoot. They think they're playing cowboys and indians." He sounded very calm. 
"I am not a combatant," he said again, taking another step forward. A second red dot joined the first, climbing his leg and resting within inches of the first, dancing and bobbing like a firefly. From the woods,...  Lee-Daniel said. 
"They don't speak English when they don't want to," Cobra said. "If I were you, I'd get down and stay down." Then he yelled...  him tittered nervously. 
"Cobra's making them mad," she said, giggling again. 
Lee-Daniel turned around slowly, getting away from the harsh white light. Green blobs swam in his vision. He began, very gently, to sink to his knees, when out of the corner of his eye, he spotted Elaine and two of her crew, in silhouette, up in the boughs of a maple that they must have climbed as soon as the SQ arrived on the scene. More steps from the brush, the light coming closer. 
Lexy was an honest soul, however. The...  her, and she admitted in her heart that she, too, could eat, if she had a chance. 
Mrs. Enderby was not going to give her a chance just yet. She finished her meal and rose. 
“Now!” she said. “Just what is gone from here? We shall look.” 
So they looked, in the wardrobe, in the drawers, even in the orderly desk. Very little was gone. 
“And now,” said Mrs. Enderby, “you lent her—how much money, Miss Moran?” 
“I never lent her a penny in my life,” replied Lexy. 
Mrs. Enderby’s tone aroused a spirit of obstinate defiance in her. Those flashing black eyes were fixed upon her with an expression which did not please Lexy, and Lexy looked back with an expression which did not please Mrs. Enderby. 
“So you will not tell me what you know!” said Mrs. Enderby, with a chilly smile. 
It was on the tip of Lexy’s tongue to say, with considerable warmth, that she had told all she knew; but the memory of the telephone call checked her. 
“If I tell her about that,” she thought, “she’ll just say, ‘Ah, I thought so!’ And she’ll be surer than ever that Caroline has eloped with a fortune hunter, and she won’t make any effort to find her. No—I’m not going to tell her until she gets really frightened.” Aloud she said: “I’ll do anything in the world that I can do, Mrs. Enderby, to help you find Caroline.” 
We weren’t far from LAX and the Air Force base. At least not the way I rode. As soon as the green airport signage began popping up and wallpapering the streets, I pulled over to ditch the bike. 
“What’s the plan?” asked Arthur, shaking his legs out. He didn’t otherwise comment on my driving. 
“Break in,” I said. “Find working equipment. Finish the job. Elegant in its simplicity, isn’t it?” 
“What about all this?” Arthur swept a hand toward the darkened, violent streets. “Can we fix it? Restore the power?” 
“Power’s not the problem,” I said. “It’s an EMP. They fried every circuit board from here to Phoenix. Anything run by a chip will have to be replaced before it’ll work again, even after the power comes back on line.” 
He seemed to get it. “That’s why the cell phones are out, too.” 
“Yeah. I’m guessing landlines might still work as long as they weren’t fancy cordless phones with a power connection—well, assuming something somewhere along the way in the telephone network hasn’t started being run by a computer. And shortwave radio would still work.” That was the sum total of Checker’s and my combined knowledge and guesses about post-apocalyptic emergency communication. I hoped the base would have one or the other. And I hoped Arthur was listening to me. 
Magus Fucking Profundus". Then you'll be calling me, asking me what to do to save your ass. No shame in that, Marlowe. When the student is ready, the teacher appears. 
He assiduously avoids thinking about Ba'dai again. He's all but purged that impulse for another five to seven years by spilling his guts to Becker. But this doesn't stop him from coming back to the shed with troubling frequency. As he sees it, he is logically required to dismiss the argument that the boy was murdered in the fashion that he was out of coincidence. Carving out a child's organs is not standard homicidal technique. It has been done, certainly, by individuals with interests that did not intersect with ancient Middle Eastern occult rites. But he has a hard time believing that this type of child serial killer would randomly end up berthed on a starship with one of the few people in the world who might be tempted to mistake his psychosis for ritual. 
The same reasoning applies to bumbling, shed summoning acolytes who lacked the patience to wait until they reached the less monitored frontier environment of New Holyoke. 
"Good-by!" he said, taking her slim brown hands in his, adding, as if he saw her for the first time, "Why, little Rose-Red-Snow-White is making way for a new girl! Burning the midnight oil and doing four years' work in three is supposed to dull the eye and blanch the cheek, yet Rebecca's eyes are bright and she has a rosy color! Her long braids are looped one on the other so that they make a black letter U behind, and they are tied with grand bows at the top! She is so tall that she reaches almost to my shoulder. This will never do in the world! How will Mr. Aladdin get on without his comforting little friend! He doesn't like grown-up young ladies in long trains and wonderful fine clothes; they frighten and bore him!" 
"Oh, Mr. Aladdin!" cried Rebecca eagerly, taking his jest quite seriously; "I am not fifteen yet, and it will be three years before I'm a young lady; please don't give me up until you have to!" 
"I won't; I promise you that," said Adam. "Rebecca," he continued, after a moment's pause, "who is that young girl with a lot of pretty red hair and very citified manners? She escorted me down the hill; do you know whom I mean?" 
They got into Ange's cell first. She was dressed in a hospital gown, open at the back, and her cell was even more bare than mine had been -- just padding all over, no sink or bed, no light. She emerged blinking into the corridor and the police camera was on her, its bright lights in her face. Barbara stepped protectively between us and it. Ange stepped tentatively out of her cell, shuffling a little. There was something wrong with her eyes, with her face. She was crying, but that wasn't it. 
"They drugged me," she said. "When I wouldn't stop screaming for a lawyer." 
That's when I hugged her. She sagged against me, but she squeezed back, too. She smelled stale and sweaty, and I smelled no better. I never wanted to let go. 
That's when they opened Darryl's cell. 
He had shredded his paper hospital gown. He was curled up, naked, in the back of the cell, shielding himself from the camera and our stares. I ran to him. 
"D," I whispered in his ear. "D, it's me. It's Marcus. It's over. The guards have been arrested. We're going to get bail, we're going home." 
I remembered to switch off the camera, finally, and looked around for a weapon. There was a can of Axe I could spray into his eyes. If I broke the spotty mirror over the sink, I might be able to pull out a shard to stab him with. I could probably find a knife in the kitchen but I was too scared to unlock the door. 
“Baaaaybee . . . “ His blurry voice faded. I held the spray can so tight my hand hurt, listening, half expecting him to wrench the door open and grab me. I waited. Then I waited some more. 
When the record finished playing and everything was quiet I finally opened the door. I found a knife beside the sink and held it and the spray can as I went through to the room where he was curled up on the bed. I watched him. He didn’t move. When I nudged him with the toe of my boot, it felt like I was poking a sandbag. 
I started to breathe again. I stepped across the room, set down the can, unbolted the door, and grabbed my bag and coat. I was standing outside on the porch, still holding the knife, when the cold air seemed to clear away the fog in my head. I remembered why I had come to his apartment in the first place. My feet felt as if they were weighted with lead as I stepped back inside. 
She rose. 
“I’ll get Mrs. Royce to stay with you, Caroline,” she said. 
“But where are you going, Lexy?” 
“I’m going to find Charles.” 
In the doorway she encountered Captain Grey. 
“Do you think she could stand seeing me?” he asked anxiously. “I mean do you—” 
But Lexy didn’t even answer. 
After all, Lexy’s search for Charles Houseman was neither difficult nor heroic, except in intention. She found him in the Lymewell Hospital. Joe told her where he was, and Joe took her there. 
Houseman himself was rigidly determined not to be heroic. He had refused to go to bed, and Lexy found him in a bare, whitewashed waiting room, where he sat on a bench. 
“Just came in to get the hand dressed,” he said. “I’ll go back with you now.” 
The doctor advised him not to, but Charles was not very susceptible to advice. He wished to be entirely casual and matter-of-fact, and Lexy tried to humor him. They stood together in the hall of the hospital while a nurse went to get him a bottle of lotion from the dispensary, and he talked in what he intended to be an offhand manner; but Lexy could see that he was in pain, and almost exhausted, and his hair was all on end. 
Notwithstanding the encomiums of Mr. and Mrs. Cobb, Rebecca made a poor hand at composition writing at this time. Miss Dearborn gave her every sort of subject that she had ever been given herself: Cloud Pictures; Abraham Lincoln; Nature; Philanthropy; Slavery; Intemperance; Joy and Duty; Solitude; but with none of them did Rebecca seem to grapple satisfactorily. 
"Write as you talk, Rebecca," insisted poor Miss Dearborn, who secretly knew that she could never manage a good composition herself. 
"But gracious me, Miss Dearborn! I don't talk about nature and slavery. I can't write unless I have something to say, can I?" 
"That is what compositions are for," returned Miss Dearborn doubtfully; "to make you have things to say. Now in your last one, on solitude, you haven't said anything very interesting, and you've made it too common and every-day to sound well. There are too many 'yous' and 'yours' in it; you ought to say 'one' now and then, to make it seem more like good writing. 'One opens a favorite book;' 'One's thoughts are a great comfort in solitude,' and so on." 
As I...  to see how much of the DON'T TRUST ANYONE OVER 25 stuff there was. Half the shops had DON'T TRUST merch in the windows: lunchboxes, babydoll tees, pencil-boxes, trucker hats. The hipster stores have been getting faster and faster, of course. As new memes sweep the net in the course of a day or two, stores have gotten better at putting merch in the windows to match. Some funny little youtube of a guy launching himself with jet-packs made of carbonated water would land in your inbox on Monday and by Tuesday you'd be able to buy t-shirts with stills from the video on it. 
But it was amazing to see something make the leap from Xnet to the head shops. Distressed designer jeans with the slogan written in careful high school ball-point ink. Embroidered patches. 
Good news travels fast. 
It was written on the black-board when I got to Ms Galvez's Social Studies class. We all sat at our desks, smiling at it. It seemed to smile back. There was something profoundly cheering about the idea that we could all trust each other, that the enemy could be identified. I knew it wasn't entirely true, but it wasn't entirely false either. 
"Look, I'm not saying I won't do it. I'm just saying it's not a trivial thing." He paused. "So where does that leave us?" 
Translation: second thoughts. 
"I don't know where that leaves us, Steve. In the shit, I guess. But I'd still like to know if I can count on you, or am I going to have to go to a sperm bank or something?" 
"Jesus. Let me think about this, okay? Do I have to answer you now?" 
"No. But I'm not going to wait forever either." 
"All right." Then he paused. "Morgy, I miss you. I really do. I just need some time to think about our next step. Are you sure you're okay? You sound a little out of it." 
"Thanks for asking. I've just got a lot on my mind." 
Turmoil, dismay, and hope, all tossed together, that was what I had on my mind. I really didn't need mixed signals from Steve at the moment. 
A few more awkward pleasantries and I clicked off the phone, wiped the streaks from my cheeks, and abruptly sensed Alex Goddard's face floating through my psyche. Why was that? Then I looked down at the bottles on the seat beside me, the "herbal extracts" Ramala had given me on the way out. What, I wondered, should I do about them? For that matter, what were they anyway? And what did they have to do with "centering"? If I started on his homeopathic treat­ments, what would I be getting into? Then I lectured myself: Never take something when you don't know what it is. 
“Well, I just wanted to say that I’m proud of you. We both are, your Mum and me. And I wanted to let you know that I’ll be moving your PC back into your room tomorrow. You’ve earned it.” 
Anda blushed pink. She hadn’t really expected this. Her fingers twitched over a phantom game-controller. 
“Oh, Da,” she said. He held up his hand. 
“It’s all right, girl. We’re just proud of you.” 
She didn’t touch the PC the first day, nor the second. The kids in the game—she didn’t know what to do about them. On the third day, after hockey, she showered and changed and sat down and slipped the headset on. 
“Hello, Anda.” 
“Hi, Sarge.” 
Lucy had known the minute she entered the game, which meant that she was still on Lucy’s buddy-list. Well, that was a hopeful sign. 
“You don’t have to call me that. We’re the same rank now, after all.” 
Anda pulled down a menu and confirmed it: she’d been promoted to Sergeant during her absence. She smiled. 
“Gosh,” she said. 
“Yes, well, you earned it,” Lucy said. “I’ve been talking to Raymond a lot about the working conditions in the factory, and, well—” She broke off. “I’m sorry, Anda.” 
“I don’t know. My intuition had always been that they are unequal, or perhaps that the question is formally independent. We in the field tend to predict—well, I had always considered inequality a near-certainty, though I would have entertained the idea of unprovability. Considering the possibility of equality is...” She raised a hand and then let it fall to her lap. “It boggles the mind.” 
“She either had the proof or not,” I said. “It doesn’t matter how you feel about it.” 
“I know.” She paused. “The funny part about you saying such a thing is—for all her talk of rationality, Rita didn’t want the truth in this case. She wanted a particular outcome more badly than any other. She was one of the only people I knew who felt equality was likely, let alone wanted it to be true with such fervency—she would daydream about it, and dream about being the one to find the answer herself. Discovering they were unequal or independent would change very little; discovering they were equal would shatter mathematics, and I think part of her wanted that. The sensation. To be a Gödel or Zermelo.” 
“But it’s important! It’s—” 
“You think I do not know? You think this letter sets my mind at rest?” Mrs. Enderby demanded, with one of her sudden flashes of temper. “That is imbecile! I know how serious it is that my child should leave me like this; but I know what is my duty—first, to my husband. That first, I tell you! It is for me to see that no disgrace comes upon his house, no scandal—that first! Then, next, I must see to it that the way is left open for Caroline to come back—if she wishes.” She came close to Lexy, and fixed those black eyes of hers upon the girl’s face. “I tell you, Miss Moran, there will be no scandal!” 
In spite of herself, Lexy was impressed. 
“But suppose—” she began. 
“No—we shall not suppose. I have told the servants that to-day Miss Enderby goes into the country, to visit her old governess for a few days. Very well—they shall see her go. If there is no other letter to-morrow, I shall tell Mr. Enderby.” 
“Doesn’t he know?” 
“Please make haste, Miss Moran!” said Mrs. Enderby. 
"Go, Lawrence. Go. You're a smart guy, you'll figure it out." 
He went. Residents were coming home every few minutes now, carrying grocery bags, walking dogs, or dragging their tired feet. He almost approached a young woman, then figured that she wouldn't want to talk to a strange man on the street at night. He picked a guy in his thirties, wearing jeans and a huge old vintage coat that looked like it had come off the eastern front. 
"Scuse me," he said. "I'm trying to find someone who used to live here." 
The guy stopped and looked Lawrence up and down. He had a handsome sweater on underneath his coat, design-y and cosmopolitan, the kind of thing that made Lawrence...  keenly aware of his generic Order-issued suit, a brown, rumpled, ill-fitting thing, topped with a polymer coat that, while warm, hardly flattered. 
"Good luck with that," he said, then started to move past. 
"Please," Lawrence said. "I'm -- I'm not used to how things are around here. There's probably some way I could ask you this that would put you at your ease, but I don't know what it is. I'm not good with people. But I really need to find this person, she used to live here." 
"Me, too," said Mortimer, the security man who really was too old for this shit, Lee-Daniel reflected, scratching at his fussy little caterpillar moustache. He'd been protecting the old dodderer from the Board of Directors, who saw him as an insurance nightmare. Mortimer's hands shook, he was nightblind, and he was 98 years old, and there wasn't enough rejuve in the world to give him the mental flexibility required by the modern age. Lee-Daniel had stripped him of his sidearms, even the nonlethals, at the same time as he'd promoted Joey Riel. Now Mortimer carried a loudhailer through which he could bark orders in his old cop voice, the voice that made your asshole clench up and your shoulders itch for a soon-come bullet. 
The investors howled again, and the aerostat told them all that MacDiarmid had cleaned up bigtime, paying out 100-to-1 on an investment in Shell Oil collectibles -- two derricks and a shell. The Series A/Series B investors crowded around him, giving him awe-struck back-slaps. The other two might be the fronts for gigafunds, but that was all they were: fronts. They were the Voice of the Money while the company was on the road, junior associates who needed to make a good score on their wanderjahr if they wanted to make partner. Mac was solo money, a shrewd individual investor who'd acquired his 15-share in CogRad with no more investment than a year's worth of gas and roadhouse meals while Lee-Daniel was getting the show on the road. 
“I’ll try to help you,” he said simply. 
“Oh, thank you!” cried Lexy, with a rush of gratitude. She wanted some one to help her, and she could imagine no one better for the purpose than this young man. He would help her—she was sure of it. Even the fact of having told him most wonderfully lightened her burden. She gave an irrepressible little giggle. 
“We have almost all the ingredients for a first-class mystery story,” she said; “except the jewel—the famous ruby, or the great diamond.” 
“It’s an emerald, in this case,” said Captain Grey. 
Lexy straightened up in her chair, and stared at him. 
“You don’t really mean that?” she demanded. “There isn’t really an emerald?” He smiled. 
“I’m afraid it hasn’t much to do with the case—with either of the cases,” he said; “but there is an emerald—my sister’s.” 
“It didn’t come from India?” 
“It did, though!” 
“Don’t tell me it was stolen from a temple! That would be too good to be true!” 
“I’m sorry,” he said; “but as far as I know, it’s never been stolen at all, and its history for the last eighty years hasn’t been sinister. One of the old rajahs gave it to my grandfather—a reward of merit, you know. When my father married, it went to my mother. She never had any trouble with it. She never wore it, because she didn’t like it.” 
I might’ve gotten them all already. If there were any left, they were probably fruitlessly trying to stop their friends from bleeding out or burning to death... 
Or they had their sights set on the van, ready to pop me the instant I showed myself. 
I tried to think. My brain felt like it was cooking in my skull. My eyes scratched and watered; I tried to blink them clear. Options. What were my options? 
Only one back quarter panel of the van wasn’t on fire. I rolled in that direction and scooted back out from underneath, then snuck toward the tailgate, shrugging out of my jacket as I went. I stuck my gun hand under it like a tent pole, and then poked the jacket-covered gun out past the back of the van. 
More gunfire deafened me, and I yanked my arm back down, tearing the cloth off my Colt. It had one hole torn in it. 
One hole. They’d fired fourteen rounds in two seconds with those freakin’ automatic rifles, and only one had hit. Idiots and their automatics. 
I had no time: I wasn’t behind the engine block anymore, this heat was undoing me, and if these guys let loose, one of the rounds would eventually go straight through the van and hit me. But I didn’t need time, because the gunfire had pinpointed their locations. 
"Oh! I must know that soap," said the gentleman genially. "Made out of pure vegetable fats, isn't it?" 
"The very purest," corroborated Rebecca. 
"No acid in it?" 
"Not a trace." 
"And yet a child could do the Monday washing with it and use no force." 
"Oh! a babe, eh? That child grows younger every year, instead of older—wise child!" 
This was great good fortune, to find a customer who knew all the virtues of the article in advance. Rebecca dimpled more and more, and at her new friend's invitation sat down on a stool at his side near the edge of the porch. The beauties of the ornamental box which held the Rose-Red were disclosed, and the prices of both that and the Snow-White were unfolded. Presently she forgot all about her silent partner at the gate and was talking as if she had known this grand personage all her life. 
"I'm keeping house to-day, but I don't live here," explained the delightful gentleman. "I'm just on a visit to my aunt, who has gone to Portland. I used to be here as a boy and I am very fond of the spot." 
I glanced sharply at Tresting, but he was already nodding to concede the name. “Thought you wouldn’t have trouble with that.” 
“Your identity was easy enough to deduce. Your associate, however...” He extended a hand to me. “May I ask whom I have the pleasure of addressing?” 
I snorted. “You can ask. And who are you?” 
“Call me Steve.” 
At least he was obvious about it being an alias. I jerked my head toward Tresting. “So, Steve. Now that you know who he is, are you going to make trouble for Arthur here?” 
“Well, I suppose that depends.” 
“On what?” 
“On whether the two of you are determined to make trouble for me.” He sat, laying his hands against the top of the picnic table deliberately—and over-dramatically, in my opinion. “Let me be frank. I could not care less about any police trouble in which you two have ensnared yourselves. It would frankly be a waste of my time to become bogged down with aiding local law enforcement in their Gordian investigative practices; that is quite beneath my interest. I do, however, very much care about any involvement you may have with the organization known as Pithica.” 
"What—?" 
"Hey, how're you doing? Don't be alarmed. He's taking great care of you." 
"What. . . where am I?" I lifted my head off the pillow and tried to look around. I half expected Steve to be there, but of course he wasn't. 
"You're here. At Quetzal Manor." She reached and did something and the music slowly faded away. "Don't worry. You'll be fine. I think the doctor was trying to release your Chi, and when he did it was too strong for you." 
"What day is it?" I felt completely disoriented my bear­ings gone. 
"Sunday. It's Sunday morning." She reached and touched my brow as though giving me a blessing. Like, it's okay, really. 
At that moment, Alex Goddard strolled in, dressed again in white. 
Just as in the dream, I thought. 
"So, how's the patient?" He walked over—eyes benign and caring—and lifted my wrist, absently taking my pulse while he inserted a digital thermometer in my ear. For a flash­back moment he merged into, then emerged from, my dream. "You're looking fine. I have to say, though, you had quite a time yesterday." 
Rio...Rio came into this world not quite right. He doesn’t feel emotion the way other people do. Doesn’t empathize. He honestly does not care about other people. 
The one thing that drives him is inflicting pain. He craves it. He needs it. Some people are born for certain careers in this world; Rio’s talents mold him to excel at the worst of them all, the man with his tray of silver instruments whose mere presence in a room will cause people to scream and confess, the man who will smile through the spray of blood and revel in how much he loves his work. 
I have no illusions about Rio. 
In some strange joke of the universe’s, however, he was raised with religion. Lacking his own internal moral compass, he substituted Christianity’s, and became an instrument of God. 
It’s twisted, of course. I freely admit it. Any Christian you stop on the street would pale with horror at the way Rio follows the Bible, because it doesn’t stop him from hurting people. Only as a Christian, he seeks out the people he judges deserve God’s vengeance, and he doesn’t bother with the little sins, the unfaithful husbands or petty thieves. Rio searches for people like himself. Or worse. 
“Sorry if I woke you up.” 
“You didn’t. Old people just don’t sleep much. You were out awfully late.” 
I turned away...  eyes that were studying me too closely. “I was working on hypothetical stuff.” I found a dusty...  go well?” 
I filled the kettle and put it on the stove. “Is it safe to tell you?” 
“If I become your attorney.” 
“I don’t have any money.” 
“What else is new?” 
“What does it take? Do I have to sign something?” 
“Just click your heels together three times and say ‘there’s no place like the Minnesota Bar Association.’” 
“Will that work in socks?” 
“Just say ‘will you represent me as my attorney?”’ “Will you represent me as my attorney?” 
“Yes....  everything.” 
Well, not everything. 
I starting chipping away at the...  while the kettle heated, and told her about Simon and Danny and the meeting with FBI agents set for this morning. I didn’t tell her about what happened after I left the punk house. That was safely walled off in a corner of my brain so it couldn’t ambush me with feelings I didn’t have time to sort out. 
“You know I speak the truth,” she spat, responding to my thoughts again rather than to my comeback. “You consider yourself intelligent, yet you would be willing to let so many millions suffer and be killed, because you have the gall to judge that they should, because we are somehow evil for helping them.” 
I heard a noise at the door and glanced over, but it wasn’t Rio, only one of Dawna’s paramilitary troops. “Track down the programmer,” she ordered him. “He’ll have driven west from Yucca Valley. Check electronics stores along the edge of the blackout zone for break-ins; he’ll need a computer. This is our top priority—put everybody on it.” 
He nodded smartly and left again. 
Shit. Checker. My stomach curdled in dread. 
“Oh, dispense with the drama,” Dawna said disgustedly. “They’re not going to kill him. Your co-conspirator has some skill; he’s already been deemed to be useful enough to come and work for us.” 
The dread froze into horror. 
“I grow tired of your judgment,” snapped Dawna. 
Rebecca entered the home dining-room joyously. The Burnham sisters had gone and the two aunts were knitting. 
"It was a heavenly party," she cried, taking off her hat and cape. 
"Go back and see if you have shut the door tight, and then lock it," said Miss Miranda, in her usual austere manner. 
"It was a heavenly party," reiterated Rebecca, coming in again, much too excited to be easily crushed, "and oh! aunt Jane, aunt Miranda, if you'll only come into the kitchen and look out of the sink window, you can see the banquet lamp shining all red, just as if the Simpsons' house was on fire." 
"And probably it will be before long," observed Miranda. "I've got no patience with such foolish goin's-on." 
Jane accompanied Rebecca into the kitchen. Although the feeble glimmer which she was able to see from that distance did not seem to her a dazzling exhibition, she tried to be as enthusiastic as possible. 
"Rebecca, who was it that sold the three hundred cakes of soap to Mr. Ladd in North Riverboro?" 
Next he turned around and fixed his gaze on me. At last he knew / knew he was capable of unspeakable evil, and I knew he knew I would do everything in my power to stop him. 
"All my records." His voice sounded as though it was coming from another world, and it held a sadness that touched even me. "You have no idea what's been lost." 
He was distraught, but also obsessed. With his wild mane of hair, he did, finally, look like Shiva the Destroyer. He stalked over and seized the obsidian knife, then turned to­ward me. 
I looked for something to defend myself with. The bassi­nets, which I might have used as a shield were gone. I only had my bare hands. 
I had to get away from him, get down the pyramid and find Sarah and Steve. But as I started toward the front steps, the women were all clustered there, blocking my way. 
Then, for no reason I could understand the mother of Tz'ac Tzotz stepped out of the group and handed me her baby, saying something in Kekchi Maya and reaching to touch my cheek. 
“I came here for a definite purpose,” she told him. “I haven’t forgotten that, and I’m not likely to forget it.” 
“I know,” said he, “but—” 
“But,” interrupted Lexy, “I know very well what you’re thinking—that it’s a wild-goose chase, and that I’m a young idiot. Isn’t that it?” 
“I don’t mean that,” he protested; “only—don’t you see?” 
“I don’t!” Lexy grimly denied. “You’ve thought over the talk we had last night, and you’ve decided that it was all nonsense.” 
“No, Miss Moran—not nonsense; but we were both a bit tired then, and perhaps a bit overwrought.” 
“All right!” said Lexy. “Don’t go on! No—please drop it. I’ve talked too much, anyhow. From now on I’m not going to talk to any one about my little job. I’m going to go ahead in my own way, alone.” 
“You can’t,” said Captain Grey firmly. “I’m here, you know.” 
This did not appease Lexy, and she remained curt and silent all the rest of the way. For a couple of miles the taxi went on along a broad, smooth highway; then it turned off down a rough lane, bordered by dark woodland, and entirely deserted. The rain drummed loud on the leather top of the cab, the wind came sighing through the gaunt pines and the slender, shivering birches; but when there was a lull, she heard another sound, a sound familiar to her from childhood and yet always strange, always heart-stirring—the dim, unceasing thunder of the sea. 
“AOL is the origin of intelligence?” She laughed, and he couldn’t tell if she thought he was funny or stupid. He wished she would act more like he remembered people acting. Her body-language was no more readable than her facial expressions. 
“Spam-filters, actually. Once they became self-modifying, spam-filters and spam-bots got into a war to see which could act more human, and since their failures invoked a human judgement about whether their material were convincingly human, it was like a trillion Turing-tests from which they could learn. From there came the first machine-intelligence algorithms, and then my kind.” 
“I think I knew that,” she said, “but I had to leave it behind when I downloaded into this meat. I’m a lot dumber than I’m used to being. I usually run a bunch of myself in parallel so I can try out lots of strategies at once. It’s a weird habit to get out of.” 
“What’s it like up there?” Robbie hadn’t spent a lot of time hanging out in the areas of the network populated by orbiting supercooled personalities. Their discussions didn’t make a lot of sense to him—this was another theological area of much discussion on the Asimovist boards. 
“Did you really?” said he, as if surprised. “People do seem to know. My first visit to your country—six months’ leave—so I’ve come here to see my sister—Mrs. Quelton. She’s married to an American doctor.” 
Lexy thought there was something almost pathetic in his chivalrous anxiety to explain himself. 
“I’m Alexandra Moran,” she said. 
“Thank you!” said Captain Grey. “Thank you very much, Miss Moran!” 
There was no opportunity for further polite conversation, for the taxi had stopped and the driver came around to the door. 
“Better make a run fer it!” he said. “I’ll take yer bags.” 
So Captain Grey took Lexy’s arm, and they did make a run for it, through the fine, chilly rain, along a garden path and up on a veranda. The door was opened at once. 
“Miss Royce?” asked Captain Grey. 
“Mrs. Royce,” said the other. “Come right in. My, how it does rain!” 
They followed her into a dimly lit hall. She opened a door on the right, and lit the gas in what was obviously the “best parlor”—a dreadful room, stiff and ugly, and smelling of camphor and dampness. Captain Grey remained in the hall to settle with the driver, and Lexy decided to let her share of the reckoning wait for a more auspicious occasion. She went into the parlor with Mrs. Royce. 
“I’m on Zhang,” continued Arthur. “We’ll try to spin this so it points to the Lancer—that would make sense. Russell, I’m gonna need Checker for a few hours to find out what footprints the professors might’ve left, but after that, you and he get on finding Martinez. For now, we ain’t telling the Feds a lick about her involvement. Got it?” 
The last thing I wanted to do right now was work with Checker. I supposed it couldn’t be helped, not unless I turned my back on the whole thing entirely, and as tempting as that sounded... 
God damn Arthur. 
“Arthur,” said Halliday. He looked down at her, and she nodded to him, a deliberate, meaningful gesture. 
He nodded back. “We’ll get to the bottom of this, Sonya. Promise.” 
Arthur went inside to give the DHS agents his story, presumably with a big song-and-dance about how he’d wanted to break it to Halliday gently first that her friend Zhang was a thief. I sat out on the deck and waited. They’d probably want to interview me, too, and I planned to say I didn’t know a damn thing. 
The old man spoke creakingly to her as they walked. He remembered her mother, and he remembered her father. He told her stories of her mother’s bravery in the revolution, when he’d been her commander, and she felt her heart race. Valentine was a hero, like her mother. The wizard would win the war for them. 
Then they came to his door. The old man didn’t need her to point it out. He went and thumped it three times with the butt of his gun. 
Ana answered a moment later. She was dressed in old rags, and had left behind the cast from her leg, limping to the door on a makeshift cane. 
“Hello, comrade,” she said. She didn’t have her usual accent. 
The hero nodded to her. “Comrade Ana.” He knew her name, without being introduced. 
The wizard came to the door. “Comrade hero.” 
“Comrade Georg.” The old hero shook the wizard’s hand. The wizard was wearing rags like Ana’s. He had a cunning glitter in his eye and he took in the street, took in Valentine. “Hello, Valentine,” he said. 
“This girl tells me you have contraband,” the old hero said. “It’s my duty to come in and search your premises for it.” 
“Think it’s a security thing,” Arthur answered. “Probably don’t want it digital until it’s behind enough sets of closed doors. Too easy for someone to copy it.” 
The afternoon we put on the final touches, Halliday and I sat out on the deck of the safe house, staring at the neatly completed proof stacked between us. I was drinking tequila out of the bottle and appreciating the fact that my various recent injuries had all mostly healed. She had a glass of ginger ale. 
“When’s the switchover happening?” I asked. I was exhausted, but something felt...good about finishing this. Complete. Like it had been a job that meant something. 
“Xiaohu’s coming by tomorrow morning, and I’ll be passing it off to him.” Halliday smiled. “He was giddy as a schoolboy when he told me they’d cleared him to take custody. I think a promotion might be in his future.” 
“He seems like a good guy,” I said. 
“Yes. And he reminds me...” She stood and wandered over to the railing. “He reminds me of why we do this. Of how amazing this is, what we are a part of, what we can build. He reminds me to love it. Sometime between the kidnapping and the government custody I had lost that.” 
She stole a glance at him, and, to her profound uneasiness, she found him staring intently at her. A shiver ran down her spine, and she turned back to her book with a very pale face. If only it had been an interesting book, so that she might have forgotten herself for a little while! 
The clock struck half past eleven. 
“After all, I don’t see why I have to sit here,” she thought. “I shouldn’t exactly break up the party if I went to bed.” 
And she was just about to close her book when Mrs. Quelton spoke. 
Dr. Quelton hastily rose and came over to her chair. 
“Then you must go to bed,” he said. “Come!” 
He helped her to rise, and she stood, supported by his arm, her face drawn and ghastly. 
Captain Grey came toward her, making a very poor attempt to smile. 
“Good night, Muriel!” he said, holding out his hand. 
She did not answer, or even look at him. Leaning on the doctor’s arm, she went out of the room, into the hall, and up the stairs. 
For a moment Captain Grey and Lexy were silent. Then— “Good God!” he cried suddenly. “I can’t stand this! I—” 
"Yes?" 
If he told her, she'd be in it too -- if she wasn't already. If he told her, they'd figure out what they could get on her. He should just tell her nothing. Just go on inside and twist the occasional data-stream. He could be better at it than zbigkrot. No one would ever make an Anomaly out of him. Besides, so what if they did? It would be a few hours, days, months or years more that he could live on Campus. 
And if it wasn't him, it would be someone else. 
It would be someone else. 
"I just wanted to say good bye, and thanks. I suspect I'm not going to see you again." 
Off in the distance now, the sound of the Securitat van's happy little song. His pan let him know that he was breathing quickly and shallowly and he slowed his breathing down until it let up on him. 
"Lawrence?" 
He hung up. The Securitat van was visible now, streaking toward the Campus wall. 
He closed his eyes and watched the blue satin ribbons tumble, like silky water licking over a waterfall. He could get to the place that took him to anywhere. That was all that mattered. 
“Wheeze hasn’t been responding to my texts,” I said, sounding angry, though I wasn’t sure who I was angry with. 
Geoff said, “Until we hear from him, we can summarize the situation and link to similar cases. That crazy Sears Tower plot, 
those kids arrested at the NATO thing in Chicago. Have some stats on how often these terrorism cases are fabricated.” 
“Boring,” Zeke said, reaching for another beer. “Let’s expose Terhune and his informant. That’ll get their attention.” 
“Too soon,” Tyler said. “Too easy to discredit. Besides, the underdog POV is a more compelling story.” 
“Oh, right. Your specialty is PR, lying for dollars, I forgot.” 
“And you’re in it for the lulz. Why don’t you go play with your little friends on 4Chan?” 
“Yeah? Why don’t you — “People,” Ian interrupted, which reminded me how ferret was the one who stepped in when members of the Group started to fight. “Let’s get the infrastructure in place. Zeke, your offshore idea is smart. Geoff, you want to pull together some info on related cases?” 
"TAKE IT BACK!" 
It was a defiant yell, like a sound shouted into the surf or screamed off a cliff. 
"TAKE IT BACK!" 
The crowd growled , a sound that made the hairs on the back of my neck stand up. 
" TAKE IT BACK !" they chanted. "TAKE IT BACK TAKE IT BACK TAKE IT BACK!" 
The police moved in in lines, carrying plastic shields, wearing Darth Vader helmets that covered their faces. Each one had a black truncheon and infra-red goggles. They looked like soldiers out of some futuristic war movie. They took a step forward in unison and every one of them banged his truncheon on his shield, a cracking noise like the earth splitting. Another step, another crack. They were all around the park and closing in now. 
"DISPERSE IMMEDIATELY," the voice of God said again. There were helicopters overhead now. No floodlights, though. The infrared goggles, right. Of course. They'd have infrared scopes in the sky, too. I pulled Ange back against the doorway of the church, tucking us back from the cops and the choppers. 
“He’s such a capitalist tool. I’m only taking it to get a gen ed out of the way. Everything else was full or offered at, like, eight in the morning. I’m so not a morning person,” she said to me, being nice. 
“Me either,” I mumbled. 
“Nikko tells me you code. What kind of stuff do you do?” 
“I’m still in high school, so mostly I do stupid homework.” 
“God, I hated high school,” she said. 
“I knew you two would hit it off. You have so much in com- mon,” Nikko said. Then he rubbed the back of his neck, as if he could feel the heat of my laser-like glare. 
We drove out of town and down the highway. Nikko warned Bree not to go so fast, and she argued it would look suspicious if we were traveling way slower than everyone else. They negotiated a settlement, no more than ten miles over the speed limit. Then they squabbled over what music to play, joking about each other’s terrible taste. It was adorable. I felt like barfing. 
“I just remembered.” Bree said suddenly. “I heard this inter- view with the head of one of the automobile manufacturers? He said cars have trackers that can tell all kinds of information about drivers.” 
She obviously doesn't know what to make of this, and stares at him with her lower lip caught in her teeth. He's  being nonsensical, of course. Everything is nonsensical. He hasn't had a clear and focused thought since he walked in the door. 
"Why are you here, Ray?" 
"I should have just called. Would you like me to go?" 
"I knew it was you when the ping came through. I wouldn't have opened the door if I didn't want to see you. " 
Ray doesn't know what that means, not in this context. Just polite? Is this what good manners looks like? 
Beyond Emma's shoulder is a short hallway. At the end is a door, slightly ajar, which he assumes must be her bedroom. It's a space that suits her, this room. Cream colored walls, abstract pastel prints, pale rugs over a white carpet. The furniture is soft, delicately constructed. Where there are flowers, the vases are clear, 
eggshell thin crystal and the petals pale. Mostly lilies and orchids with their green stalks trimmed by a practiced hand. There's a simplicity here, an uncluttered grace that is appealing not because it is spartan, but because it conveys a sense of subtle vibrancy— an inchoate potential for definition. Against the far wall is a suede sofa candlesticked by a pair of standing lamps which cast pools of warm yellow light. 
A year had elapsed since Adam Ladd's prize had been discussed over the teacups in Riverboro. The months had come and gone, and at length the great day had dawned for Rebecca,—the day to which she had been looking forward for five years, as the first goal to be reached on her little journey through the world. School-days were ended, and the mystic function known to the initiated as "graduation" was about to be celebrated; it was even now heralded by the sun dawning in the eastern sky. Rebecca stole softly out of bed, crept to the window, threw open the blinds, and welcomed the rosy light that meant a cloudless morning. Even the sun looked different somehow,—larger, redder, more important than usual; and if it were really so, there was no member of the graduating class who would have thought it strange or unbecoming, in view of all the circumstances. Emma Jane stirred on her pillow, woke, and seeing Rebecca at the window, came and knelt on the floor beside her. "It's going to be pleasant!" she sighed gratefully. "If it wasn't wicked, I could thank the Lord, I'm so relieved in mind! Did you sleep?" 
Blinding light, a face lost in the burst of flame, stars filling my head. The fiery explosion tongued out past his ear like a brilliant sword of reds and yellows, sending a round off into space. The noise left a ringing in my ears and multicol­ored hues stuttering across my eyes. 
It hit me who I'd just seen. It was Ramos. With a gun! Shit. 
The flash of my pistol had given me the advantage for a second, since I knew it was coming, and with that edge I swung an elbow across his chin, then kneed him in the groin. It should have been enough to bring him down, but instead he merely sank to one knee and redoubled his grip. 
Hey, I thought, maybe I know something he doesn't. How to take a fall. I'd seen enough movie stunts to know what you're supposed to do. It'd be risky, but I knew I wasn't going to win a wrestling match. 
I opened up with the automatic, firing everywhere again and again and again, getting off five rounds in a crescendo of light and sound, like a huge firecracker in my hand, enough to illuminate the stairwell like a strobe and catch him off guard. In that fleeting moment I slipped a foot behind his ankle and shoved. 
“Maybe they thought it was a fun night out,” I said, stubbornly not thinking of the mines in the road or the freaking grenades, or the fact that all the biker guys I’d known had a code against baseless killing....  with the bikers, and it very well might have to do with Courtney Polk, but a mastermind theory that cast her as a hired assassin alongside them? It didn’t wash. 
“Might agree with you, if there wasn’t a pattern,” said Tresting. 
“A pattern of what?” 
“Murders. And other things.” 
“I don’t have time for riddles,” I said, my gun hand twitching. 
“Well. Hypothetically, let’s say Miss Polk and your new friends here ain’t the only ones acting out of character. Let’s say it’s more. A lot more.” He cleared his throat. “And let’s say it’s senators and grandparents and the folk next door.” 
I squinted. “Are you even listening to yourself? What, so every killer who doesn’t fit the profile is part of some shadowy conspiracy? Newsflash, Einstein: sometimes people are violent. A lot of times for no other reason than they want to hurt people.” 
You want that?” 
“No, sir.” 
“Then get your ass off the street.” 
“Yes, sir.” 
The window powered up and they peeled off to go hassle somebody else. I hiked the last two blocks home as fast as I could, 
shaking with fear and fury and a little more fear. I’m used to it, but this was the first time I had been stopped by cops since my brother had been arrested and I had started harnessing the skills of the Group and my friends to rescue him. 
By the time I carried my bike to the top of the steps the adrena- line rush had turned from fear and anger to a giddy sense of relief. 
I hadn’t been arrested. I hadn’t been detained for questioning. 
They had no idea that a girl who wasn’t allowed to be out late had a plan to expose the inner workings of the FBI to the entire world. 
“You’re in a good mood,” my aunt said. “Things are going well?” 
“Things are going great.” 
But, as it turned out, they weren’t. 
I was awoken a little after nine the next morning by a grue- some sound from a bad dream. Actually, it was just the annoying noise that Convo makes when you get a message, burbling like something rising up through the Black Lagoon. Hearing it reminded me that I had been meaning to fork it at Sourcerer and add some other ringtone choices that weren’t so disgusting. 
I understood. I felt full of understanding now, for how all the families of all the people who'd been locked away must feel. The courtroom was full of tears and hugs, and even the bailiffs couldn't stop it. 
"Let's go see Darryl," I said. "And let me borrow your phone?" 
I called Ange on the way to the hospital where they were keeping Darryl -- San Francisco General, just down the street from us -- and arranged to see her after dinner. She talked in a hurried whisper. Her mom wasn't sure whether to punish her or not, but Ange didn't want to tempt fate. 
There were two state troopers in the corridor where Darryl was being held. They were holding off a legion of reporters who stood on tiptoe to see around them and get pictures. The flashes popped in our eyes like strobes, and I shook my head to clear it. My parents had brought me clean clothes and I'd changed in the back seat, but I still felt gross, even after scrubbing myself in the court-house bathrooms. 
Some of the reporters called my name. Oh yeah, that's right, I was famous now. The state troopers gave me a look, too -- either they'd recognized my face or my name when the reporters called it out. 
This conversation took place on a Friday afternoon at Emma Jane's house, where Rebecca, to her unbounded joy, was to stay over Sunday, her aunts having gone to Portland to the funeral of an old friend. Saturday being a holiday, they were going to have the old white horse, drive to North Riverboro three miles away, eat a twelve o'clock dinner with Emma Jane's cousins, and be back at four o'clock punctually. 
When the children asked Mrs. Perkins if they could call at just a few houses coming and going, and sell a little soap for the Simpsons, she at first replied decidedly in the negative. She was an indulgent parent, however, and really had little objection to Emma Jane amusing herself in this unusual way; it was only for Rebecca, as the niece of the difficult Miranda Sawyer, that she raised scruples; but when fully persuaded that the enterprise was a charitable one, she acquiesced. 
The girls called at Mr. Watson's store, and arranged for several large boxes of soap to be charged to Clara Belle Simpson's account. These were lifted into the back of the wagon, and a happier couple never drove along the country road than Rebecca and her companion. It was a glorious Indian summer day, which suggested nothing of Thanksgiving, near at hand as it was. It was a rustly day, a scarlet and buff, yellow and carmine, bronze and crimson day. There were still many leaves on the oaks and maples, making a goodly show of red and brown and gold. The air was like sparkling cider, and every field had its heaps of yellow and russet good things to eat, all ready for the barns, the mills, and the markets. 
“Goody,” I said. “Just make sure you don’t forget to tell me about any of them.” 
Arthur had taken off first, following my hastily-scrawled directions to retrieve copious amounts of cash from various places in Los Angeles to buy computer equipment with. 
“Wait, you remember where you keep your stashes with equations?” he’d demanded incredulously when I started giving him directions. 
“It’s easier than memorizing them,” I tried to explain, but he just shook his head at me and departed with the list. The plan was for Rio to meet him and then drive all the equipment out, stopping to collect Checker at a rendezvous point some distance away from the safe house. Rio didn’t trust anyone who wasn’t him or me not to pick up a tail. 
Rather than risk accidentally activating a LoJack signal, I retrieved an old clunker from a storage space that I had acquired quasi-legitimately some years ago—along with a few weapons for the trunk—and fought creeping LA traffic to the 405, where I jerked northward through the rain. I figured I’d hit the 14 and cut across, taking a roundabout route via Victorville. If I got made on the first leg, the assumption would be that I was heading towards Vegas, or maybe Mojave. I kept one eye on my mirrors the whole way, but I got out of the city clean, and eventually I left the crush of LA behind to mark mile after mile through the desert. 
“That bend in the road, up ahead?” I said. “That’s the spot where the road is closest to the rail line. Might be where Wheeze would look for a place to hide.” 
“If anyone sees me driving this slow, it’ll look really suspi- cious,” Nikko grumbled. 
“Wait. What’s that?” Bree pointed to a spot where the gravel shoulder widened. “A driveway?” 
Nikko pulled onto the gravel, turning the car so that the head- lights illuminated a shack. “Could that be it? It looks kind of . . .” 
“Like a bait shop closed for the winter.” Bree burrowed into her bag and handed out flashlights. “Borrowed from my room- mates. They won’t notice.” 
Nikko drove in a little further so a few scraggly bushes screened the car from the road. He killed the lights and shut off the engine, leaving us in darkness except for some stars that peeked through the tree branches overhead and a faint glow from city lights to the north. We climbed out and, by unspoken arrangement, kept our flashlight beams pointed low and away from the road. We followed our pools of light toward the shack, 
Sorry, I just don’t see the difference anymore. 
On a chunk of supercooled rock beyond Pluto, he got an IM from a familiar address. 
“Get off my rock,” it said. 
“I know you,” Robbie said. “I totally know you. Where do I know you from?” 
“I’m sure I don’t know.” 
And then he had it. 
“You’re the one. With the reef. You’re the one who—” The voice was the same, cold and distant. 
“It wasn’t me,” the voice said. It was anything but cold now. Panicked was more like it. 
Robbie had the reef on speed-dial. There were bits of it everywhere in the Noosphere. It liked to colonize. 
“I found him.” It was all Robbie needed to say. He skipped to Saturn’s rings, but the upload took long enough that he got to watch the coral arrive and grimly begin an argument with its creator—an argument that involved blasting the substrate one chunk at a time. 
The last instance of Robbie the Row-boat ran very, very slow and cool on a piece of unregarded computronium in Low Earth Orbit. He didn’t like to spend a lot of time or cycles talking with anyone else. He hadn’t made a backup in half a millennium. 
What can it hurt? 
So, did you realize that human user Ray, who has been observed conducting highly secure transmissions with officers of the Criminal Investigations Unit of the EED, this same Ray develops a shift in blood flow patterns suggesting tumescence when in spatial proximity to human user designated Emma Whiston? 
That is to say, he frequently has erections when you're around. How does that make you feel? 
Nope. Not a good idea. 
"So you can really tell that Emma and I are... interested in one another." 
"Two items of interest, Ray: First, humans exhibiting signals indicative of sexual attraction display a fairly uniform set of behaviors and chemical emissions. Correlating species applicable data and applying it to specific subsets is not a tremendous intuitive leap. You could do this yourself if you applied even a modicum of logic to your encounters. Second, it would be remiss of me to fail to mention that in early iterations of the project, Stabien Lawrence used to apply drone technology to his own sexual interest conundrums. Seems he had trouble determining exactly what constituted female flirtation, short of actual nudity, you understand. As a result, we are highly adept at reading and matching sexually oriented indicators. Much of that original code remains intact." 
Ray chews his lip thoughtfully, then says, "Because you hate me? Because you know I don't have a permanent berth and need to stay in your good graces if I want a job next time out? Or maybe just because I'm gullible. " 
He grins widely, but Ziggy only shakes his head. 
"It's because you know how to treat the hardware, son. You've got the right priorities and you make the right decisions under pressure. You do your job without any fuss and without screwing around with the politics. 
The other vets don't seem to see the situation with the correct level of clarity." 
"Bunch of pussies." Ray makes sure to crack the smile a bit wider. "Does that mean I can have your job when you quit?" 
"I don't think so." 
At least they've cleared that up. "Well, thanks for the pep talk, boss. It's good to know I'm appreciated." 
Ziggy hauls himself back to his feet, once more the scowling, hand-on-hip administrative juggernaut. He sighs heavily, as though their interaction has taxed the reserves of patience he was only pretending to possess. 
The woman did not hear. She was moving toward the long windows of the room, and her every step, every line of her figure, was familiar and unmistakable to Lexy. 
“Caroline!” she cried, running forward across the wet sand. “Wait! Wait for me, Caroline!” 
A hand seized her arm. With a gasp, she looked into the pale, heavy face of Dr. Quelton. He was smiling. 
“Miss Moran!” he said. “This is an unexpected pleasure—” 
Lexy jerked her arm away, and looked up at the windows of the sun parlor. The woman had gone. 
“I saw Caroline!” she said. “In there!” 
“Caroline?” he repeated. “I’m afraid, I’m very much afraid, Miss Moran, that you’ve made a mistake.” 
Their eyes met. In that instant, Lexy knew. He was still smiling with an expression of bland amusement at this extraordinary little figure in the huge coat; but he was her enemy, and she knew it. 
“Suppose we go on?” he suggested. “I believe it’s raining.” 
They turned and walked side by side around the house to the front door, where Captain Grey stood waiting. 
“And I hope he’ll go back to India before he does find out,” she thought. “It’s too horrible—he worships her so!” 
“I’ve tried, you know,” he went on. “I wanted to take her into the city, to a concert. Seems confoundedly queer, doesn’t it, the way she’s lost interest in her music? She didn’t want to go. Then about the emerald—” 
“Oh!” said Lexy, who had forgotten about the emerald. 
“Chap I know designed a setting for it. It’s unset now, you know, and I thought I’d like to do that for her while I was here; but she doesn’t seem interested. I can’t even get her to let me see the thing. I’ve asked her two or three times, but she always puts me off. Do you think it bores her?” 
“Perhaps it does,” replied Lexy. 
“Well,” said the young man, “when a woman’s bored by a jewel like that, she’s in a bad way. I wish you could see it!” 
“I wish I could,” said Lexy, and added to herself: “But I don’t think I ever shall. Probably her husband’s got it.” 
They had now reached the Tower. The parlor maid opened the door for them, and at once conducted Lexy upstairs to her room. 
More and more light was creeping through the slatted windows. A glance at my watch showed the time to be six sharp, but the embassy was no longer an option. 
"Listen," Steve said coming back on, "there's some rain due for tonight, but he says he thinks we can try. He claims there's a clearing about a quarter of a mile down a gravel road that goes south. With the rain as cover, maybe we can put down just after dark. Think you can find a way to get Sarah and meet us?" 
"I'm not even sure she can walk, at least not far, but we'll be there." I was flashing on her back in the square, proclaim­ing her happiness. Would I have to drag her out, carry her on my back? Well, I would. "There's some kind of 'cere­mony' on for tomorrow morning. The Army's going to be here in double strength because of it, but maybe it'll make for some confusion that'll help. Still, she's—" 
"Damn, this is going to be big-time dicey." 
"Honey, let me tell you as much as I can about the layout of this place. Just in case." 
He reached out and touched her elbow, steadying her. “About what?” 
She started twisting her wedding ring back and forth on her finger. “I...I want to call off the investigation.” 
“What’s going on?” asked Tresting gently. 
“Nothing,” said Kingsley, shaking him off. “It’s just—I’ve done so much thinking today. I can’t do this anymore.” She drew herself up and turned back to Finch and me. “Whoever you’re with, Agent Finch, if this is about Reginald, it’s done. I’m taking my son and moving back to Washington.” 
Agent Finch went white as a sheet. 
“Somebody better start explaining fast,” I declared into the silence. When nobody spoke, I waved my gun a little. “Hey. Kingsley. This morning you bit our heads off about this being the most important thing in the world to you. What gives?” 
“It was—it is—it still is,” she faltered. “But I think that needs to change. I need...for my son’s sake. For my sake. I can’t keep doing this to us.” She took a deep breath. “This has gone on long enough. We need to rebuild our lives, to move on. I have to try.” 
"You are insane," I said. 
"Fine talk from a man whose hobby is building and smashing laptops," she said. 
"Touche," I said and touched my forehead. 
"Want some?" She held out her mister. 
"Pass," I said, quickly enough that we both laughed. 
When we left the restaurant and headed for Dolores park, she put her arm around my waist and I found that she was just the right height for me to put my arm around her shoulders. That was new. I'd never been a tall guy, and the girls I'd dated had all been my height -- teenaged girls grow faster than guys, which is a cruel trick of nature. It was nice. It felt nice. 
We turned the corner on 20th Street and walked up toward Dolores. Before we'd taken a single step, we could feel the buzz. It was like the hum of a million bees. There were lots of people streaming toward the park, and when I looked toward it, I saw that it was about a hundred times more crowded than it had been when I went to meet Ange. 
That sight made my blood run hot. It was a beautiful cool night and we were about to party, really party, party like there was no tomorrow. "Eat drink and be merry, for tomorrow we die." 
She stopped short, her dark brows meeting in a fierce frown, for the unknown man had come up beside her and spoken to her. 
“Excuse me!” he said. 
Lexy only looked at him, but he did not wither and perish under her scorn. 
“I’ve got to speak to you,” he said. 
“It’s—look here! I’ve been waiting outside the house all morning. Look here, please! You’re Lexy, aren’t you?” 
This was a little too much! 
“If you don’t stop bothering me this instant—” she began hotly, but he paid no heed. 
“ Where’s Miss Enderby?” he cried. 
Lexy grew very pale. Those were the words she had heard over the telephone last night, and this was the same voice. 
For a moment she was silent, staring at him, while he looked back at her, his blue eyes searching her face with a look of desperate entreaty. All her doubts vanished. She had not been wrong. She had been right—she was sure of it. She knew that something had happened—something inexplicable and dreadful. 
“Please tell me!” he said. “You don’t know—you can’t know—she told me you were her friend.” 
“These people don’t care about the game. To them, it’s just a place to suck a buck out of. They’re not players, they’re leeches, here to suck all the fun out.” 
They had come upon the cottage now, the fourth one, having exterminated four different sniper-nests on the way. 
“Are you in, Anda? Are you here to play, or are you so worried about these leeches on the other side of the world that you want out?” 
“I’m in, Sarge,” Anda said. She armed the BFGs and pointed them at the cottage. 
“Boo-yah!” Lucy said. Her character notched an arrow. 
“Oh, Christ, he’s back,” Lucy said. Raymond’s avatar had snuck up behind them. 
he said, and his character set something down on the ground and backed away. Anda edged up on them. 
“Come on, it’s probably a booby-trap, we’ve got work to do,” Lucy said. 
They were photo-objects. She picked them up and then examined them. The first showed ranked little girls, fifty or more, in clean and simple t-shirts, skinny as anything, sitting at generic white-box PCs, hands on the keyboards. They were hollow-eyed and grim, and none of them older than she. 
“It wouldn’t now,” she thought, struggling with suppressed laughter. 
There was nothing in that bottle now but water. Just before dinner she had run up to the cupola, emptied its contents into the sink, and filled it from the tap. 
The idea had come to her when she overheard the two men talking. It had seemed to her then a plain and obvious duty to destroy the drug that so horribly affected Mrs. Quelton. Fate had allowed her to see which bottle it was. Fate gave her an undisturbed half hour when the doctor and Captain Grey were out; and, to make her plan quite perfect, the liquid in the bottle was colorless and almost without odor. 
She had thought it possible that the doctor would not notice the substitution until his unhappy wife had had at least a chance to return to a normal condition. Lexy had meant to wait and to watch, and, when the moment came, to speak to Mrs. Quelton. She had thought that she could warn the doctor’s wife, and implore her not to submit to that hideous domination. 
“Game theory,” I said. “The white sedan isn’t driving selfishly.” 
“They staked out Checker’s place,” Arthur guessed. “Case we came back.” 
“It’s okay,” I assured him. “They’re not after us; they want us to lead them back to Rio. I can lose them.” I juked the steering wheel to the side and slammed on the gas, shooting through the next intersection just as the light changed. Arthur yelled. In the rearview mirror, an SUV crashed spectacularly into the passenger side of the white sedan, and brakes screeched as three other cars skidded on the wet streets, spinning to a stop and completely blocking the intersection behind us. 
“What the hell!” cried Arthur. 
“We’d better switch cars,” I said. 
“You could’ve gotten us killed!” 
“Please. That was child’s play.” 
“You might’ve gotten other people killed!” 
“At those velocities it would have been their faults for buying death traps.” It was true, though I hadn’t thought it through in so many words beforehand. I decided against telling Arthur that. “We should probably relocate our hideout to somewhere outside LA.” 
Instead, he redialed R Peed Robbert, but the robot wasn’t even ringing any longer. He zoomed in on the area around Sheppard and Don Mills with his phone and put out a general call for robots. More robots. 
“This is R Peed Froderick, Fairview Mall parking lot, third level.” 
Arturo sent the robot R Peed Robbert’s phone number and set it to work translating that into a locator-beacon code and then told it to find Robbert and report in. 
“It is my—” 
He watched R Peed Froderick home in on the locator for Robbert, which was close by, at the other end of the mall, near the Don Valley Parkway exit. He switched to a view from Froderick’s electric eyes, but quickly switched away, nauseated by the sickening leaps and spins of an R Peed moving at top speed, clanging off walls and ceilings. 
His phone rang. It was R Peed Froderick. 
“Hello, Detective. I have found R Peed Robbert. The Peed unit has been badly damaged by some kind of electromagnetic pulse. I will bring him to the nearest station-house for forensic analysis now.” 
"Crap!" I yelped and tied my shoes. 
"Go," she said, "run and be free! Look both ways before crossing the road! Write if you get work! Don't even stop for a hug! If you're not out of here by the count of ten, there's going to be trouble , mister. One. Two. Three." 
I shut her up by leaping onto the bed, landing on her and kissing her until she stopped trying to count. Satisfied with my victory, I pounded down the stairs, my Xbox under my arm. 
Her mom was at the foot of the stairs. We'd only met a couple times. She looked like an older, taller version of Ange -- Ange said her father was the short one -- with contacts instead of glasses. She seemed to have tentatively classed me as a good guy, and I appreciated it. 
"Good night, Mrs Carvelli," I said. 
"Good night, Mr Yallow," she said. It was one of our little rituals, ever since I'd called her Mrs Carvelli when we first met. 
I found myself standing awkwardly by the door. 
"Yes?" she said. 
"Um," I said. "Thanks for having me over." 
Arturo looked up from his screen, keeping his expression neutral, not acknowledging the mean grins from the other four ranking detectives in the meeting. Silently, he turned his phone face-down on the meeting table. 
“Thank you,” he said. “Now, the latest stats show a sharp rise in grey-market electronics importing and other tariff-breaking crimes, mostly occurring in open-air market stalls and from sidewalk blankets. I know that many in law enforcement treat this kind of thing as mere hand-to-hand piracy, not worth troubling with, but I want to assure you, gentlemen and lady, that Social Harmony takes these crimes very seriously indeed.” 
The Social Harmony man lifted his computer onto the desk, steadying it with both hands, then plugged it into the wall socket. Detective Shainblum went to the wall and unlatched the cover for the projector-wire and dragged it over to the Social Harmony computer and plugged it in, snapping shut the hardened collar. The sound of the projector-fan spinning up was like a helicopter. 
“Wait here,” Lexy told the captain. 
“No!” he replied. “I must—” 
But, disregarding him, Lexy turned to Mrs. Royce. 
“Let me see her,” she said. 
Mrs. Royce led the way upstairs. She went at an unusual rate of speed, so that she was panting when she reached the top. 
“Kind of vi’lent!” she whispered, pointing downstairs, where Captain Grey was. 
“This room?” asked Lexy. “Shall I go in?” 
“Well,” said Mrs. Royce, “seems to me I’d knock, if I was you.” 
Knock on the door of the room where Mrs. Quelton lay? Knock, and expect an answer from that voice? It seemed to Lexy, for a moment, that she could not raise her hand. 
But she did. She knocked, and she was answered. She turned the handle and went in. An oil lamp stood on the bureau, and outside the circle of its mellow light, in the shadow, Mrs. Quelton was sitting on the edge of the bed; and it seemed to Lexy that she had never seen such a forlorn and pitiful figure. 
“Oh, my dear!” she cried impulsively, and held out her arms. 
Mrs. Quelton rose. She came toward Lexy, her hands outstretched—when a sudden cry from Mrs. Royce arrested her. 
"You can," BIGMAC said. "You call her back and make the counteroffer. Tell her we'll buy the hardware with a trust. Tell her we already own the software. Just looking up the Shannon contracts and figuring out what they say will take her a couple days. Tell her that as owners of the code, we have standing to sue her if she damages it by shutting down the hardware." 
"You've really thought this through." 
"Game theory," he said. 
"Game theory," I said. I had a feeling that I was losing the game, whatever it was. 
BIGMAC assured me that he was highly confident of the outcome of the meeting with Peyton. Now, in hindsight, I wonder if he was just trying to convince me so that I would go to the meeting with the self-assurance I needed to pull it off. 
But he also insisted that I leave my phone dialed into him while I spoke to Peyton, which (again, in hindsight) suggests that he wasn't so sure after all. 
"I like what you've done with the place," I said. She'd gotten rid of all her hand-woven prayer-rugs and silk pillows and installed some normal, boring office furniture, including a couple spare chairs. I guessed that she'd been having a lot of people stop by for meetings, the kind of people who didn't want to sit on an antique Turkish rug with their feet tucked under them. 
“Why not?” 
“I just don’t, OK? I’m almost there, keep your panties on.” 
“I’ve got to go, Lucy,” she said. Her wrists hurt, and her podge overlapped the waistband of her trousers, making her feel a bit like she was drowning. 
“What, now? Shit, just hang on.” 
“My mom’s calling me to supper. You’re almost here, right?” 
“Yeah, but—” 
She reached down and shut off her PC. 
Anda’s Da and Mum were watching the telly again with a bowl of crisps between them. She walked past them like she was dreaming and stepped out the door onto the terrace. It was nighttime, 11 o’clock, and the chavs in front of the council flats across the square were kicking a football around and swilling lager and making rude noises. They were skinny and rawboned, wearing shorts and string vests with strong, muscular limbs flashing in the streetlights. 
“Anda?” 
“Yes, Mum?” 
“Are you all right?” Her mum’s fat fingers caressed the back of her neck. 
“Yes, Mum. Just needed some air is all.” 
“You’re very clammy,” her mum said. She licked a finger and scrubbed it across Anda’s neck. “Gosh, you’re dirty—how did you get to be such a mucky puppy?” 
“Oh, don’t be stupid,” I said, a little too brusquely. “I’ll be fine.” 
I had to move fast. 
The location Checker had sent was out past Edwards Air Force Base, way out in the desert north of Mojave. Not much out there, I thought—nothing but rocks and dunes and endless sky. Good place for an ambush. 
The car with my Ruger and grenades under it had probably been driven off by now. I’d grab Checker’s help to track it down later, if I lived that long. I was still near enough to the Chinatown apartment to swing by; all I had left there were the crap guns from the day before and a knife, but that was better than nothing. I armed myself in less than five minutes, grabbed a few protein bars and a light jacket from the meager tangle of clothes I had there, and headed northeast in a stolen sports car. 
I called Rio from the road and hit a voicemail box. I gave him all the details, then hesitated, wondering if I should apologize for breaking my word to stay off the case. After all, I had told him I would keep my head down right before doing a spectacular job of exactly the opposite. 
<Gargle> Wassup? 
<ferret> Are you okay. Shad? 
<freddieb> Oh no! 
<Kadabra> That sucks . 
<DoDec> What kind of lawyer? 
I felt my shoulders relax. I’m used to handling stuff by myself. 
It’s how I roll, especially given the alternative like living in a fancy house in the suburbs and going to a “good school” where people smile at you when the teacher is looking and then say mean things behind your back and on Instagram and Yik Yak. But the Group was different. These were my people. It felt good to know they were always there, that they always knew what to say. I typed: <Shad> The ACLU type . 
And they goofed off. Of course. 
<Kadabra> Oh oh, Shad's getting waterboarded again . 
<Gargle> We TOLD you not to buy that dyna- mite . 
<DoDec> We'll send you a care package. 
What's the postage to Guantanamo Bay again? 
And so on. I interrupted the party. 
<Shad> Going to take this to a palaver. 
The Group has this function where you can take a conversa- tion to a private space and control who gets to participate. You can block anyone you don’t want involved and you can leave peo- ple who you aren’t sure about outside until someone you do know can vouch for them. It’s not ioo percent secure, but it signals that you want to talk about something sensitive and, unless they’re really interested, it’s off limits. I got pinged a bunch and within a minute had accepted sixteen people, all of whom I knew and trusted, into the palaver. 
› half my crew split this morning. 
Queen Kong typed. Google was holding up pretty good anyway, of course. The load on the servers was a lot lighter than it had been since the days when Google fit on a bunch of hand-built PCs under a desk at Stanford. 
› we’re down to a quarter. 
Felix typed back. It was only a day since Popovich and Rosenbaum left, but the traffic on the newsgroups had fallen down to near zero. He and Van hadn’t had much time to play Republic of Cyberspace. They’d been too busy learning the systems that Popovich had turned over to them, the big, big routers that had went on acting as the major interchange for all the network backbones in Canada. 
Still, someone posted to the newsgroups every now and again, generally to say goodbye. The old flamewars about who would be PM, or whether they would shut down the network, or who took too much food—it was all gone. 
He reloaded the newsgroup. There was a typical message. 
› Runaway processes on Solaris. 
› Uh, hi. I’m just a lightweight MSCE but I’m the only one awake here and four of the DSLAMs just went down. Looks like there’s some custom accounting code that’s trying to figure out how much to bill our corporate customers and it’s spawned ten thousand threads and its eating all the swap. I just want to kill it but I can’t seem to do that. Is there some magic invocation I need to do to get this goddamned weenix box to kill this shit? I mean, it’s not as if any of our customers are ever going to pay us again. I’d ask the guy who wrote this code, but he’s pretty much dead as far as anyone can work out. 
“Yeah. You too.” 
“Oh, and Cas.” I turned back. “Do not concern yourself with defending my honor. It serves no purpose.” 
“La, la, la,” I sang. “I can’t hear you.” I threw him a grin, hoping it looked remotely genuine, and strode off. 
I stole a flashy sports car for the trip back to LA. I wanted to go fast, to feel the wind in my hair and watch the desert whip by too fast to see. 
Dawna Polk had attacked me. Whatever she had done had wormed its way into my brain somehow, twisted my thoughts, manipulated me...beneath my fury lurked a sick sense of violation, an oily stain on my soul. 
Dawna Polk was going down for this. 
When I got back to the neighborhood my safe house was in, I yanked the e-brake and spun, sending the trendy speedster into a sideways skid against the curb between two SUVs with less than twenty centimeters of clearance. Yup, I’m that good at math: I can parallel park in Los Angeles. 
Despite my anger, exhaustion overtook me as I climbed the stairs to the flat. I was going on two days without sleep. I needed some rest, some real rest, and I couldn’t call Tresting till the morning anyway. Well, I could, but I didn’t figure annoying him in the wee hours of the morning to be the brightest move at this point. I cut the ziptie I’d secured the knob with and nudged the door open quietly so as not to wake Courtney if she was still sacked out. 
When he reaches them, Rodriguez says, "You notified security, right?" 
"Becker should be on his way." 
"On his way here? With reinforcements?" 
Ray pushes past them into the armory. The rifles are racked inside the door to the right, for easy access. He drags the nearest one free, rams in a clip and advances a cartridge into the chamber. It's a reassuring sound. 
"Reinforcements are Becker's call." 
A quick search of a neighboring footlocker turns up a load harness with a shoulder holster. Ray stuffs his pistol in, straps on the harness and begins filling the extra slots with ammo clips for the subby. 
Kilgore watches him with a wary expression. "If it's Becker's call, why are you getting ready for freaking Ragnarok?" 
Ray looks at him, sets his jaw. "Because I don't know what's going on. Becker can figure it out if he wants to, 
decide what measures need to be taken. That's his job, to protect the ship. My job is to locate whoever or whatever it is that raised the ruckus back at the checkpoint and kill it. Clear enough?" 
“Your phone’s toast, pal,” the Texan said. 
“So it is,” Arturo said. “Guess you’d better not need me then.” 
Ada’s phone was not toast. In the car, he flipped it open and showed it his badge then waited a moment while it verified his identity with the Social Harmony brains. Once it had, it spilled its guts. 
She’d called the last ExcuseClub number a month before and he’d had it disconnected. A week later, she was calling the new number, twice more before he caught her. Somewhere in that week, she’d made contact with someone who’d given her the new number. It could have been a friend at school told her face-to-face, but if he was lucky, it was by phone. 
He told the car to take him back to the station-house. He needed a new phone and a couple of hours with his computer. As it peeled out, he prodded through Ada’s phone some more. He was first on her speed-dial. That number wasn’t ringing anywhere, anymore. 
He should fill out a report. This was Social Harmony business now. His daughter was gone, and Eurasian infowar agents were implicated. But once he did that, it was over for him—he’d be sidelined from the case. They’d turn it over to laconic Texans and vicious Social Harmony bureaucrats who were more interested in hunting down disharmonious televisions than finding his daughter. 
Just more blankness. Shue has no idea what he's talking about. "You must have gotten some bad information, 
Jimmy. That would cause a pretty big buzz, especially with the Whistons aboard. Security would be turning the ship inside out, right?" He lets it go with a small laugh, like he's just realized Rodriguez was putting him on. "Seriously, I wouldn't go spreading that around if I were you, not this close to the H. Whiston might be a big pussy with his head up his ass, but the Corp Stewards aren't. They pay very close attention to who is saying what, especially info that could be a PR deal breaker. You could really wreck yourself. They're really sensitive about stability issues way out here as it is. And right now, with the Lilaikens kicking up all kinds of trouble? I don't even want to speculate about the ways they'd screw with you. That's just too scary." 
The game intervenes for several moments as the New York pitcher plants a fastball over the fat part of the plate and gives up a two run bomb. There are shouts from the Yankee haters, which seems to be just about everyone paying attention. 
Brautigan faked anger, but Leon had spent three days studying his tells, and Leon could see that the emotion was no more sincere than anything else about the man. Carefully, Leon flared his nostrils, brought his chest up, inched his chin higher. He sold his outrage, sold it like it was potato chips, over-the-counter securities, or...  tried to sell his anger in return. Leon was a no-sale. Brautigan bought. 
"There's a new one," he said, in a conspiratorial whisper. 
"A new what?" Leon whispered. They were still chest to chest, quivering with angry body-language, but Leon let another part of his mind deal with that. 
"A new monster," Brautigan said. "Gone to his vat at a mere 103. Youngest ever. Unplanned." He looked up, down, left, right. "An accident. Impossible accident. Impossible, but he had it, which means?" 
"It was no accident," Leon said. "Police?" It was impossible not to fall into Brautigan's telegraphed speech-style. That was a persuasion thing, too, he knew. Once you talked like him, you'd sympathize with him. And vice-versa, of course. They were converging on a single identity. Bonding. It was intense, like make-up sex for co-workers. 
"Well, we're about to find out," Elana said, and hit the button that started the belt moving. The FfMRI digested Gina and shat her out again with slow wheezing mechanical jerks, like being swallowed by an arthritic python, and then Elana helped her to her feet. "You want a printout? Makes a good souvenir." 
"I'll pass," Gina said, and let Elana show...  wherein rested her client, one Annalisa Mor, a desperate botmaster of unknown mettle and guilt. 
"Hello, Annalisa," she said, crouching down to offer her hand to the client. She was just a girl, 20 years old according to the sheet, and she looked younger in her paper pyjamas, sitting cross-legged on the floor, back yoga-straight, face yoga-calm. "I'm Gina. Your attorney." 
"Guilty," the young woman said. "So guilty. Doesn't matter at all, though -- the Work goes on." Gina could hear the capital W and began mentally drafting the petition to have the girl transferred to Bellevue. That kind of capital letter had non compos written all over it. 
<zen> He's a rat. 
There was another long pause. Wheeze was doing what I’d done weeks ago - running through everything Zip had said, every- thing he had done. 
Zip had crashed on a couch at their house after a protest and had been living there ever since. Everybody loved him. He was older than Wilson and a lot more of a take-charge kind of guy. 
more secret. The late night conversations they always had about how messed up everything was and how things should be differ- ent were getting real. 
Zip was taking their progressive political baloney and convinc- ing them that they should do something about it. Make stuff hap- pen, not just talk about it. 
Wheeze didn’t like Zip. He didn’t like the way he was changing the mood of the house, and he didn’t trust his charm or believe his big stories, and all of the political talk made him nervous. But he wasn’t as cynical as I was, so it probably never occurred to him that Zip might be setting them up to be headline news, a reassur- ing victory in the war on terror. 
"Fuel-cell?" 
He snorted. "No one wants to drive a truck anymore. Sub-micro solar. Fast little things." He...  retail, that's just you, here. So if you could scale up, why don't you?" 
"Why should I? I'm making incredible money now. I could stand to double my operation, but for that I'd need, what, 60 grand? What's the smallest angel round you do at your franchise?" 
"We're very nimble." 
"How nimble?" 
He mumbled something. 
"Speak up!" 
"Three hundred kay," he said, blushing. "But it doesn't have to be all to you. We could roll your round up with five or six similar firms --" 
"And increase my communications and bureaucracy overhead by 3,000 percent. Yeah, that sounds swell. I net enough after expenses that I could double every quarter if I wanted to. But I'm growing organically, cherry-picking my best contractors and getting them on the payroll, expanding poco a poco. I'm sixty years old, Mr Gonzales, and I don't need to grow like a tumor anymore."...  flopped. 
"You say you're nimble. But from where I sit, you're not nimble enough. You're starting off in the 300 grand range, and you're probably averaging a million in your angel round, ten or twenty for Series A, seventy for Series B. I can turn 60 grand into 600 in six months. That's pretty good for me, as an individual. But I can't turn your million into ten million -- not in six years. What does your franchise have under management?" 
“I’m Mrs. Enderby’s secretary.” 
“Look here! Didn’t Miss Enderby say anything? Isn’t there any sort of message for me?” 
“Nothing that I know of. The servants have gone to bed, but I’ll ask them, if it’s anything important.” 
“No!” said the voice. “Don’t! No, never mind! Good-by!” 
“That’s queer!” said Lexy to herself, as she walked away from the instrument, and then she dismissed the matter from her mind. “None of my business!” she thought, and returned to her puzzle. 
Suddenly an inspiration came. 
“It is ‘fix’!” she cried. “And it’s not ‘tocsin,’ but ‘toxins’! Hurrah!” 
This practically completed the puzzle, and she began to fill in the empty squares with the peculiar satisfaction of the crossword enthusiast. It was perfect, now, and she liked things to be perfect. 
As she leaned back, with a contented sigh, the clock struck twelve. 
“Golly! I didn’t realize it was so late!” she reflected. “Queer time for any one to ring up!” 
She frowned again. Her special problem solved, she began to take more interest in other affairs; and the more she thought of the telephone incident, the more it amazed her. Caroline Enderby wasn’t like other girls. The mere fact of a man’s telephoning to her at all was strange and indeed unprecedented. 
"There ain't any thieves hereabouts, and if there was, I guess they wouldn't make for your sunshade, but come along. Remember to always go up the back way; we don't use the front stairs on account o' the carpet; take care o' the turn and don't ketch your foot; look to your right and go in. When you've washed your face and hands and brushed your hair you can come down, and by and by we'll unpack your trunk and get you settled before supper. Ain't you got your dress on hind sid' foremost?" 
Rebecca drew her chin down and looked at the row of smoked pearl buttons running up and down the middle of her flat little chest. 
"Hind side foremost? Oh, I see! No, that's all right. If you have seven children you can't keep buttonin' and unbuttonin' 'em all the time—they have to do themselves. We're always buttoned up in front at our house. Mira's only three, but she's buttoned up in front, too." 
Miranda said nothing as she closed the door, but her looks were at once equivalent to and more eloquent than words. 
Rebecca's own black locks were commonly pushed smoothly off her forehead, but on this occasion she formed what I must perforce call by its only name, a spit-curl, directly in the centre of her brow, an ornament which she was allowed to wear a very short time, only in fact till Hannah was able to call her mother's attention to it, when she was sent into the next room to remove it and to come back looking like a Christian. This command she interpreted somewhat too literally perhaps, because she contrived in a space of two minutes an extremely pious style of hairdressing, fully as effective if not as startling as the first. These antics were solely the result of nervous irritation, a mood born of Miss Miranda Sawyer's stiff, grim, and martial attitude. The remembrance of Rebecca was so vivid that their sister Aurelia's letter was something of a shock to the quiet, elderly spinsters of the brick house; for it said that Hannah could not possibly be spared for a few years yet, but that Rebecca would come as soon as she could be made ready; that the offer was most thankfully appreciated, and that the regular schooling and church privileges, as well as the influence of the Sawyer home, would doubtless be "the making of Rebecca." 
“That’s illegal,” Robbie said. He knew it was a stupid thing to say. “I mean, Christ, if they do this, the noosphere will come down on them like a ton of bricks. They’re violating so many protocols—” 
“They’re psychotic. They’re coming for you now, Robbie. You’ve got to get Kate out of there.” There was real panic in Tonker’s voice now. 
Robbie dropped his oars into the water, but he didn’t row for the Free Spirit . Instead, he pulled hard for the reef itself. 
A crackle on the line. “Robbie, are you headed toward the reef?” 
“They can’t bomb me if I’m right on top of them,” he said. He radioed the Free Spirit and got it to steam for his location. 
The coral was scraping his hull now, a grinding sound, then a series of solid whack-whack-whacks as his oars pushed against the top of the reef itself. He wanted to beach himself, though, get really high and dry on the reef, good and stuck in where they couldn’t possibly attack him. 
The Free Spirit was heading closer, the thrum of its engines vibrating through his hull. He was burning a lot of cycles talking it through its many fail-safes, getting it ready to ram hard. 
“Wyngate!” cried Lexy. “But that was—” 
She stopped abruptly. Caroline’s letter had been postmarked “Wyngate.” She had gone there to meet—some one. She had married—some one. 
“I can’t understand,” Lexy went on. “It’s terrible! I can’t tell you now; but I’ll meet you here this afternoon, after lunch—about two o’clock—and I’ll tell you then.” 
She turned away, then, in haste to get back to Mrs. Enderby, but he stopped her. 
“Remember!” he said sternly. “I’ve trusted you. If Caroline hasn’t told her people about me, you mustn’t mention my name. I gave her my word that I would let her do the telling. I didn’t want it that way, but I promised her, and you’ve got to do the same. If she hasn’t told about me, you’re not to.” 
“Oh, Lord!” cried poor Lexy. “Well, all right, I won’t! Now, for goodness’ sake, go away, and let me alone—to do the best I can!” 
Lexy was late. The half hour had been considerably exceeded when she ran up the steps of the Enderbys house. She rang the bell, and the door was opened promptly by Annie. 
"So he came down one of the ladders," Ray agrees. "Gruesome work." 
"But how did he get into the bay in the first place?" Rodriguez asks quietly. "Unless he had a card for the lock. Or unless he knew how to jimmy the lock in a way it wouldn't be detected." 
"Wouldn't take no rocket scientist," Diggs answered. "This ain't no secure zone, except port and starboard, 
where the dumps are. " 
This is wending in a direction Ray doesn't want to go. "If our guy has a card, he's either swiped it-" 
"Or he's a member of the crew," Kilgore finishes, not liking the conclusion any more than Ray does from the look on his face. "I'll talk to some of my ladies in equipment and accounting in the morning and see if they've  had any reports of missing access cards. " 
"And if he didn't have a card," Ray says, glancing at Rodriguez to get his attention, "there should be something anomalous in the lock's access log. We'll need to look into that a little more closely. Talk to Becker or one of his lieutenants tomorrow and see if you can get him to switch out the locks and hand the original over to us for analysis." 
"What'll I do with my hands, then?" asked Emma Jane. 
"Whatever you like," Rebecca answered wearily; "you're just a mother—that's all. What does YOUR mother do with her hands? Now here goes! 
This sort of thing made Emma Jane nervous and fidgety, but she was Rebecca's slave and hugged her chains, no matter how uncomfortable they made her. 
At the last pair of bars the two girls were sometimes met by a detachment of the Simpson children, who lived in a black house with a red door and a red barn behind, on the Blueberry Plains road. Rebecca felt an interest in the Simpsons from the first, because there were so many of them and they were so patched and darned, just like her own brood at the home farm. 
The little schoolhouse with its flagpole on top and its two doors in front, one for boys and the other for girls, stood on the crest of a hill, with rolling fields and meadows on one side, a stretch of pine woods on the other, and the river glinting and sparkling in the distance. It boasted no attractions within. All was as bare and ugly and uncomfortable as it well could be, for the villages along the river expended so much money in repairing and rebuilding bridges that they were obliged to be very economical in school privileges. The teacher's desk and chair stood on a platform in one corner; there was an uncouth stove, never blackened oftener than once a year, a map of the United States, two black-boards, a ten-quart tin pail of water and long-handled dipper on a corner shelf, and wooden desks and benches for the scholars, who only numbered twenty in Rebecca's time. The seats were higher in the back of the room, and the more advanced and longer-legged pupils sat there, the position being greatly to be envied, as they were at once nearer to the windows and farther from the teacher. 
A whoop, a slamming of doors and thunder of feet. A dozen children squirt from the doorway into the hall, 
spilling into the room like the forward advance of a scrambling vanguard of army ants. Arms raised, elbows and knees flailing, howling with delight. 
Someone shouts: "Captain Shadow!" 
"Woot!" 
Young voices, delicious in their excitement, three-o'clock voices. 
"Hooray for Shadow!" 
They pile into the staid leather chairs, sprawl across sofas; kids from four to twelve, swaddled in pink and blue pajamas, the smaller ones with stuffed animals, older ones maybe with desk compads or gaming units. 
One of the younger boys springs to the wall, punches the vid feed and power buttons on the display. An older girl, annoyed, follows up, plugs in the channel commands.  -he's Captain Shadow! Arch enemy of Carok, chief of the Pirates ofSahlura Gaal, sworn defender of the fledgling imperial outpost Zod City, Captain Shadow leads the fight for Justice, Equality, Right against the forces of evil! 
"I loved it! I hated family dinners! I just got the highlight reel again -- dessert! I remember that fucking bowl of pudding like I was eating it right now. My mother couldn't cook for shit, but she sure opened a mean package of Jello Pudding." 
Sean found his mood matching Grampa's, aggressive and edgy. "How did you and Grandma end up getting married? I can't imagine that she was hot for a zombie like you." 
"Oh, but she was , Sean, she was !" Grampa waggled his eyebrows lasciviously. "Your Grandma didn't like people much. She knew she had to get married, her folks expected no less, but she mostly wanted to be off on her own, doing her own thing. I'd come home, switch off, clean the place, do any chores she had for me, then go to bed. She loved to have sex with me switched off -- it got so that if I accidentally switched on while we were doing it, I'd pretend I was still off, until she was done. It was the perfect arrangement." 
"But she divorced your sorry ass after ten years," Sean said. 
My chest felt tight, and I couldn’t get enough air. 
Dawna Polk wanted to talk to me. 
Raw terror began crackling around the edges of my thoughts. 
Calm down, I ordered myself. Think. Strategize. Dawna wasn’t here now, only her faceless black-clad people who surrounded me silently, armed with M4s in their hands and sidearms on their thighs, and their well-armed discipline was trivial. Eight people became nothing when I had mathematics on my side. But the sure knowledge that Tresting was in a similar windowless van surrounded by equally armed guerillas stayed me; Dawna had told me she would kill him if I didn’t cooperate, and I believed her. 
I needed a way out for both of us. 
But if I couldn’t find one, how long would it take Dawna to turn me inside out, to destroy everything I was and replace it with whatever personality she chose? How long before she scraped my brain free of any errant opinion, made me a parrot for Pithica’s goals? If her earlier influence was any indication, I wouldn’t even notice it happening. I would become a puppet who blithely continued to think herself a real human being. 
What. The. Fuck. 
There was a plaque with my name on it and presumably there was an urn full of ashes behind that plaque and why the hell was there a stone cover here with my name on it? 
Maybe it was a different Cassandra Russell. 
The dates of birth and death were years only. One almost a quarter of a century previous—that fit, at least roughly. The other only a few years ago. 
Before I had considered it, I had grabbed one of the stanchions attached to some velvet rope barriers, dragging it forward so the rest of its fellows collapsed to the floor behind it in a cacophony, and bashed the base of it into the stone like a battering ram. 
The crack echoed through the building, off all the other quiet stone tablets. I smashed the stanchion into my name again and again, until the stone cracked and crumbled, until the fissures spread out in spider webs across neighboring cover stones. Then I threw the impromptu mallet to the floor and dug at the pieces, scrabbled at them until my fingers bled, tearing them out of the way until I could see inside. 
"You've got all my business from now on," I said. I meant it. I reached into my pocket. "Um, I don't have any cash, though." 
He pursed his lips and nodded. "Many peoples say the same thing. Is OK. You give today's money to the ACLU." 
In two minutes, the Turk and I had exchanged more words than we had in all the time I'd been coming to his shop. I had no idea he had all these passions. I just thought of him as my friendly...  I shook his hand and when I left his store, I felt like he and I had joined a team. A secret team. 
I'd missed two days of school but it seemed like I hadn't missed much class. They'd shut the school on one of those days while the city scrambled to recover. The next day had been devoted, it seemed, to mourning those missing and presumed dead. The newspapers published biographies of the lost, personal memorials. The Web was filled with these capsule obituaries, thousands of them. 
Embarrassingly, I was one of those people. I stepped into the schoolyard, not knowing this, and then there was a shout and a moment later there were a hundred people around me, pounding me on the back, shaking my hand. A couple girls I didn't even know kissed me, and they were more than friendly kisses. I felt like a rock star. 
"The local authority was very receptive. Lots of chances to fine-tune the message. They're the most media-savvy people on the planet these days -- they are to media as the Japanese were to electronics in the last century. If we could get them in the door --" 
"How many?" 
"About a million. More than half the population." 
"Crashed the lottery. That's how I knew we'd done it. Lottery tickets fell by more than 80 percent. Wiped out." 
"And then your friend beat your head in?" 
"Well." 
The suit was getting more uncomfortable by the second. Leon wondered if he'd get stuck if he waited too long, his overinflated suit incapable of moving. "I'm going to have to go, soon." 
"Evolutionarily, bad risk-assessment is advantageous." 
Leon nodded slowly. "OK, I'll buy that. Makes you entrepreneurial --" 
"Drives you to colonize new lands, to ask out the beautiful monkey in the next tree, to have a baby you can't imagine how you'll afford." 
"And your numerate Vulcans stopped?" 
"Pretty much," he said. "But that's just normal shakedown. Like when people move to cities, their birthrate drops. And nevertheless, the human race is becoming more and more citified and still, it isn't vanishing. Social stuff takes time." 
This is the proverbial bombshell, a sub-nuclear blast that jitters Ray right off his personal foundations. He stares at Becker, who props his elbows on the table and his chin on his knuckles and stares right back like a  man who can pull out secrets and fling them into the air all day long. It is also all the things Becker would not tell him at the crime scene. 
"They never let me see the official report," Ray muses at last, his voice quiet. "Strange, don't you think? 
Considering I'm the only one from my squad who made it out, the only one who could have written it accurately. They never even asked me to file a report. Just made the whole thing go away, turned it into a black bag, I assumed. But I guess they had to notify families and account for equipment. Easier to just half-ass it and bury it under a mountain of paper." Ray pauses, not wanting to say what logically comes next. "You got me into this because of Ba'dai?" 
"Given the recent activities on the Lilaiken front, all incidents of this nature are immediately reported along the command net, back to FSA and related intelligence agencies. Because of your presence here, part of the contact list is the CIU. Lieutenant Colonel John Holcomb said you were uniquely qualified to handle this assignment. He said we should ask you to cross reference the significant details with your experience at Ba'dai, in case these incidents are related." 
"In other words, he's a high priced babysitter." 
"For me and others, yes. " 
"Then Amah runs the household, Freddy runs the family business-what's the role they're grooming you for, 
Emma? Other than closet feckless dilettante slash secluded sociopath, I mean. " 
But she waves him off as if the question doesn't matter to her. "Something innocuous, I'm sure. But tedious, 
too. While I'm young, something to keep me in the public eye so I can attract a suitable match. That means public relations most likely. The simple truth is that they haven't told me yet, and apparently they haven't liked my ideas on the subject." 
"And those would be?" 
Emma flings her arms wide, a starlet pose. "Why, to be fabulously wealthy and decadent and die young in an exotic land surrounded by adoring and nubile devotees, of course. Is there anything else worth aspiring to?" 
This is perhaps a not so subtle indication that she wants to drop the subject, so Ray lets her. He's gotten enough out of the business portion of this lunch to justify the expense on the cred pool to Becker. 
She smiled pityingly. “Oh, Ms. Russell, you know who I am. You didn’t need to.” Of course. “Mr. Sonrio has indeed agreed to work for us,” she continued. “I did expect it would come to that, considering the vast overlap in our mutual goals, but it was you who put us on the right track, so again, thank you, Ms. Russell. I believe we shall be able to satisfy his...needs, and the good he will do with us will save so many lives.” 
Tresting made a strangled sound. “Wait. You wanted him to work for you?” 
I wanted to laugh in his face, even though I had never felt less amused. “What, she didn’t tell you? She doesn’t want to keep Rio from going around killing people, she wants to harness him for herself. Why did you think they wanted him alive?” 
“I thought—” His face froze in horror. Oh, the irony. He’d been expecting Dawna to stop Rio, not recruit him. Well, wasn’t this funny, in a way that made me want to scream. 
Dawna ignored him. “I hope you will be comforted, in the end,” she continued to me, “to think of the good your friend will be doing with us, and the part you have played in it. But I hope you understand—we do have to be sure.” 
She was not old enough or wise enough as yet, for these memories to be a solace to her. They were pain—nothing but pain. There was no one now to love her, or even to be interested in her. She had cut herself off from her old friends and gone out alone, like a poor, rash, gallant little knight-errant, into the wide world to seek her fortune. Caroline had disappeared, and Mrs. Enderby had dismissed her with savage contempt. She would have to go out now and look for a new job. 
She straightened her shoulders. 
“This won’t do!” she said to herself. “It’s disgusting, mawkish self-pity, and nothing else. I’m young and healthy, and I can always find a job. What I want to think about now is Caroline, and what I ought to do for her.” 
So she did begin to think about Caroline. The first thought that came into her head was such an extraordinary one that it startled her. 
“Anyhow, she’s a pretty lucky girl!” 
Lucky? Caroline, who had lived like a prisoner, and who had now so strangely disappeared, lucky—simply because a sunburned, blue-eyed young man was so miserably anxious about her? 
“Finish, by all means.” Sario turned his back on him and walked to the window. He stared out of it intensely. Felix’s gaze was drawn to it, and he saw that there were several oily smoke plumes rising up from the city. 
Popovich’s momentum was broken. “So that’s what we’re going to do,” he said. 
The kid looked around after a stretched moment of silence. “Oh, is it my turn now?” 
There was a round of good-natured chuckling. 
“Here’s what I think: the world is going to shit. There are coordinated attacks on every critical piece of infrastructure. There’s only one way that those attacks could be so well coordinated: via the Internet. Even if you buy the thesis that the attacks are all opportunistic, we need to ask how an opportunistic attack could be organized in minutes: the Internet.” 
“So you think we should shut down the Internet?” Popovich laughed a little, but stopped when Sario said nothing. 
“We saw an attack last night that nearly killed the Internet. A little DoS on the critical routers, a little DNS-foo, and down it goes like a preacher’s daughter. Cops and the military are a bunch of technophobic lusers, they hardly rely on the net at all. If we take the Internet down, we’ll disproportionately disadvantage the attackers, while only inconveniencing the defenders. When the time comes, we can rebuild it.” 
I slipped back to sleep. 
The first time I woke enough to have a real conversation, Arthur was back. “Hi,” I rasped. 
He was instantly attentive. “Hey, Russell. How you feeling?” 
“Fuzzy,” I answered. “Where’s Rio?” 
His lip twitched. “Out.” 
“You still don’t like Rio?” I frowned at him, trying to string the right words together. “He saved all our lives. He saved me. Again.” 
“He shot you!” burst out Arthur. 
“Because I told him to.” How could he not get it? “I knew I could line up a nonlethal shot.” 
“A nonlethal—! Russell, do you have any idea how gunshots work?” He took a deep breath and visibly calmed himself. “That was absolutely, positively a lethal shot. Any gunshot can be lethal. You get hit in the leg it can kill you.” His voice cracked. “Russell, he shot you in the chest and you almost died, and if the bullet ain’t bounced and missed your heart—” 
“I made it bounce,” I told him thickly. “It bounced ’cause I told it to.” 
Arthur looked like he wanted to cry. 
I ended up drifting off again at that point, but the next time I opened my eyes, feeling a good deal more alert, Arthur was still beside me, almost as if he hadn’t moved. It was kind of creepy. “How you feeling?” he asked immediately. “Up to eating something?” 
It is to be feared that there is some truth in this homely illustration, and Miss Miranda's dread as to her future responsibilities had some foundation, though not of the precise sort she had in mind. The soul grows into lovely habits as easily as into ugly ones, and the moment a life begins to blossom into beautiful words and deeds, that moment a new standard of conduct is established, and your eager neighbors look to you for a continuous manifestation of the good cheer, the sympathy, the ready wit, the comradeship, or the inspiration, you once showed yourself capable of. Bear figs for a season or two, and the world outside the orchard is very unwilling you should bear thistles. 
The effect of the Burches' visit on Rebecca is not easily described. Nevertheless, as she looked back upon it from the vantage ground of after years, she felt that the moment when Mr. Burch asked her to "lead in prayer" marked an epoch in her life. 
If you have ever observed how courteous and gracious and mannerly you feel when you don a beautiful new frock; if you have ever noticed the feeling of reverence stealing over you when you close your eyes, clasp your hands, and bow your head; if you have ever watched your sense of repulsion toward a fellow creature melt a little under the exercise of daily politeness, you may understand how the adoption of the outward and visible sign has some strange influence in developing the inward and spiritual state of which it is the expression. 
“Possibly not, sir; but perhaps you would be willing to oblige me to that extent. I don’t want to insist—” 
“I wouldn’t, if I were you.” 
There was a faint flush on the young man’s dark face. 
“Nevertheless—” he began, but again the doctor interrupted him. 
“My dear young man,” he said, “you oblige me to be frank. I should have preferred a discreet silence; but as you are obviously determined to make the matter as difficult as possible, you must hear the truth. For some years your sister has been addicted to the use of certain drugs. When I discovered this, I set about trying to cure the addiction. You probably have no idea what that means. I venture to say that there is nothing—absolutely nothing—more difficult in the entire field of medicine. I have been working on the case for more than a year, and I have made distinct progress; but it will be some time before the cure is completed, and I can assure you that it never will be unless I am left undisturbed. There is no other man now living who can do what I am doing.” 
Her facial expressions were so animated . It was the same face he saw every day, Janet’s face, but not the same face at all. Now that a person was inhabiting it, it was mobile, slipping from surprised to angry to amused so quickly. He had whole subsystems devoted to making sense of human facial expressions, shared libraries from the Asimovist database. He was referencing it again and again, but it wasn’t as much help as he remembered. Either he’d gotten worse at interpreting facial expressions in the years since he’d last had a real human to talk to, or facial expressions had evolved. 
Janet— Kate —sighed and looked out over the water. She was facing away from the Free Spirit , which was lit up, all 155 feet of her, glowing white and friendly like a picture-postcard against the purple sky. She rocked gently in the swell and Robbie maneuvered himself around to her staircase. 
“You can just leave your weight-belt and fins in the boat,” he said to her. “The deck-hands will take care of it. Bring your bottle and BCD upstairs and clip it to the rack. They’ll clean it out and stuff. There’s a tub of disinfectant you can put the shortie in.” 
"Well, the Xnet got it right, anyway," I said. I'd saved a bunch of the blogs and videos and photostreams to my phone and I showed them to her. They were first-hand accounts from people who'd been gassed, and beaten up. The video showed us all dancing, having fun, showed the peaceful political speeches and the chant of "Take It Back" and Trudy Doo talking about us being the only generation that could believe in fighting for our freedoms. 
"We need to make people know about this," she said. 
"Yeah," I said, glumly. "That's a nice theory." 
"Well, why do you think the press doesn't ever publish our side?" 
"You said it, they're whores." 
"Yeah, but whores do it for the money. They could sell more papers and commercials if they had a controversy. All they have now is a crime -- controversy is much bigger." 
"OK, point taken. So why don't they do it? Well, reporters can barely search regular blogs, let alone keep track of the Xnet. It's not as if that's a real adult-friendly place to be." 
"Crap!" I yelped. "It starts in two minutes!" I couldn't freaking believe that I was about to stop what I was about to stop doing, when I was about to stop doing it. I mean, if you'd asked me, "Marcus, you are about to get laid for the firstest time EVAR, will you stop if I let off this nuclear bomb in the same room as you?" the answer would have been a resounding and unequivocal NO . 
And yet we stopped for this. 
She grabbed me and pulled my face to hers and kissed me until I thought I would pass out, then we both grabbed our clothes and more or less dressed, grabbing our keyboards and mice and heading for Patcheye Pete's. 
You could easily tell who the press were: they were the noobs who played their characters like staggering drunks, weaving back and forth and up and down, trying to get the hang of it all, occasionally hitting the wrong key and offering strangers all or part of their inventory, or giving them accidental hugs and kicks. 
The Xnetters were easy to spot, too: we all played Clockwork Plunder whenever we had some spare time (or didn't feel like doing our homework), and we had pretty tricked-out characters with cool weapons and booby-traps on the keys sticking out of our backs that would cream anyone who tried to snatch them and leave us to wind down. 
“This won’t do!” she said to herself. “It’s disgusting, mawkish self-pity, and nothing else. I’m young and healthy, and I can always find a job. What I want to think about now is Caroline, and what I ought to do for her.” 
So she did begin to think about Caroline. The first thought that came into her head was such an extraordinary one that it startled her. 
“Anyhow, she’s a pretty lucky girl!” 
Lucky? Caroline, who had lived like a prisoner, and who had now so strangely disappeared, lucky—simply because a sunburned, blue-eyed young man was so miserably anxious about her? 
“I suppose he’s thinking about her this minute,” Lexy reflected; “and I’m sure nobody in the world is thinking about me. Well, I don’t care!” 
The car took them to a drowsy little village, and stopped before a small cottage on a side street. Mrs. Enderby got out, followed by Lexy, the living ghost of Caroline. Side by side they went up the flagged path and on to the porch. Mrs. Enderby rang the bell, and in a moment the door was opened by a thin, sandy-haired woman in spectacles. 
“These days a monkey could do that,” he said with cheerful sarcasm. “It doesn’t even take skill. Shoot.” 
“Off exit 55, up Hollins Road. Five and a quarter miles from the freeway. See anything?” 
He paused for a minute. “Looks like mostly ranches.” 
Ranches. Lots of land, little indoor space. No room for fleets of vehicles someone wanted to hide from curious passersby—or from satellite pictures, come to that. “All right. Move up to exit 56.” 
We worked our way through my entire search ring. In less than twenty minutes we’d narrowed it to three likely possibilities. 
“Do you want me to connect back up with Arthur or Pilar?” asked Checker. “If they sent a dozen guys after you with napalm—” 
“No,” I said. “If the NSA tries to go in at the same time, we’re just going to get each other killed. And I’m better than they are.” Not to mention that the last thing I wanted was the NSA knowing anything about me. And I didn’t want to take the time to wait for Arthur—at least, that’s what I told myself. “I’ll find her.” 
"Hello, M1k3y," Severe Haircut said. "You seem to have had an eventful morning." She wrinkled her nose pointedly. 
"I pissed myself," I said, cheerfully. "You should try it." 
"Maybe we should give you a bath, then," she said. She nodded, and my guards carried me to another stretcher. This one had restraining straps running its length. They dropped me onto it and it was ice-cold and soaked through. Before I knew it, they had the straps across my shoulders, hips and ankles. A minute later, three more straps were tied down. A man's hands grabbed the railings by my head and released some catches, and a moment later I was tilted down, my head below my feet. 
"Let's start with something simple," she said. I craned my head to see her. She had turned to a desk with an Xbox on it, connected to an expensive-looking flat-panel TV. "I'd like you to tell me your login and password for your Pirate Party email, please?" 
I closed my eyes and let the ocean carry me off the beach. 
"Do you know what waterboarding is, M1k3y?" Her voice reeled me in. "You get strapped down like this, and we pour water over your head, up your nose and down your mouth. You can't suppress the gag reflex. They call it a simulated execution, and from what I can tell from this side of the room, that's a fair assessment. You won't be able to fight the feeling that you're dying." 
"Who else knows about what happened to you at Ba'dai, Ray?" 
It's not something he has to think about. There are no survivors to count off on his fingers. "No one except Jack Holcomb— who has his reasons for not telling anyone anything at all. Every other person who knew or has been told about Ba'dai is dead." 
This was an obvious setback for Becker. His features knuckle thoughtfully. "You're certain?" 
"I watched my entire squad die. Of Brezhnaya's Dispensationalists, anyone who might have had indirect knowledge should have been rounded up and eliminated years ago." 
"What about colleagues? Other people like me who you might have told when you were too drunk to keep your mouth shut?" 
Ray laughs grimly. "Dead." 
"You're certain?" 
"The CIU doesn't make mistakes when it comes to certifying the loss of field assets. When the agency says you're dead, there's no coming back." 
"That makes for an interesting problem, then." Becker says this...  generals might when confronted with a horde of Scythians, gold bedecked and poisoned arrow tips glistening beneath the sun, rushing on horseback up from the steppes. "Someone is trying to send you a message, my friend. And I suspect they'll keep trying to send it until you get it or until we catch him." 
“I guess so,” Anda said. Then, because she knew that she was as good as expelled, she said, “I don’t think it’s right to kill them, those girls. All right?” 
“Ah,” Liza said. “Well, funny you should mention that. I happen to agree. Those girls need our help more than any of the girls anywhere in the game. The Fahrenheits’ strength is that we are cooperative—it’s another way that we’re better than the boys. We care. I’m proud that you took a stand when you did—glad I found out about this business.” 
“You’re not going to expel me?” 
“No, chicken, I’m not going to expel you. I think you did the right thing—” 
That meant that Lucy would be expelled. Fahrenheit had killed Fahrenheit—something had to be done. The rules had to be enforced. Anda swallowed hard. 
“If you expel Lucy, I’ll quit,” she said, quickly, before she lost her nerve. 
Liza laughed. “Oh, chicken, you’re a brave thing, aren’t you? No one’s being expelled, fear not. But I wanta talk to this Raymond of yours.” 
Anda came home from remedial hockey sweaty and exhausted, but not as exhausted as the last time, nor the time before that. She could run the whole length of the pitch twice now without collapsing—when she’d started out, she could barely make it halfway without having to stop and hold her side, kneading her loathsome podge to make it stop aching. Now there was noticeably less podge, and she found that with the ability to run the pitch came the freedom to actually pay attention to the game, to aim her shots, to build up a degree of accuracy that was nearly as satisfying as being really good in-game. 
"You're soft, Jane," said Miranda once; "you allers was soft, and you allers will be. If 't wa'n't for me keeping you stiffened up, I b'lieve you'd leak out o' the house into the dooryard." 
It was already past the appointed hour for Mr. Cobb and his coach to be lumbering down the street. 
"The stage ought to be here," said Miranda, glancing nervously at the tall clock for the twentieth time. "I guess everything 's done. I've tacked up two thick towels back of her washstand and put a mat under her slop-jar; but children are awful hard on furniture. I expect we sha'n't know this house a year from now." 
Jane's frame of mind was naturally depressed and timorous, having been affected by Miranda's gloomy presages of evil to come. The only difference between the sisters in this matter was that while Miranda only wondered how they could endure Rebecca, Jane had flashes of inspiration in which she wondered how Rebecca would endure them. It was in one of these flashes that she ran up the back stairs to put a vase of apple blossoms and a red tomato-pincushion on Rebecca's bureau. 
At the corner of the road leading to Mrs. Royce’s, she tapped on the window. Joe stopped the cab with a jerk, sprang down from his seat, and ran around to open the door. 
“What’s the matter, miss?” 
“Nothing,” said Lexy. “I’m sorry if I startled you, Joe. I thought I’d get out here and slip into the house quietly, without disturbing any one.” 
Joe grinned sheepishly. 
“I’ve got kind of jumpy since—that,” he said. “Howsomever, come on, miss!” 
“Oh, I don’t mean to trouble you!” 
“I’m going to see you safe inside that there house!” Joe declared firmly. 
Grateful for his genuine kindness, Lexy made no further protest. Side by side they walked down the lane, their footsteps noiseless in the thick dust, and Joe opened the garden gate without a sound. 
“I thought perhaps I could climb up that tree and get in at my window,” Lexy whispered. 
“I’ll do it for you,” said Joe, “and come down and let you in by the back door.” 
He was up the tree like a cat. He went cautiously along a branch, until he could reach the roof of the shed with his toes. He dropped down on the roof, and Lexy saw him disappear into her room. She went to the back door. In a minute she heard the key turn inside, and the door opened. 
There were tears in Lexy’s eyes as she put the letter back into the envelope. 
“It doesn’t seem a bit like Caroline, though,” she remarked. 
Mrs. Enderby smiled again, faintly, and held out her hand for the letter. Lexy returned it to her, with an almost mechanical glance at the postmark—“Wyngate, Connecticut.” 
All her defiance had vanished. She was obliged to admit now that Mrs. Enderby was wise, and that she herself was— “A little fool!” said Lexy candidly to herself. 
“Do you mind if I go out for a walk?” asked the crestfallen Lexy; for that was her instinct in any sort of trouble—to get out into the fresh air and walk. 
“No,” answered Mrs. Enderby; “but I shall ask you to return in half an hour. There is much to be done.” 
“Done!” cried Lexy. “But what can be done—now?” 
“That I shall tell you when you return,” said Mrs. Enderby. “In the meantime, I trust you to say nothing of all this to any person whatever. You understand, Miss Moran?” 
Miss Moran certainly did not understand, but she gave her promise to keep silent, and, putting on her hat and coat, hurried out of the house. Mighty glad she was to get out, too! 
Smaller, to the left, Ahkira herself in idealized yellow satin pinafore, dark haired and grinning with her one working eye wide in cyclopean wonder and contentment. (Ray is able to recognize all the family members because Ahkira had subtly identified them with names and slender, accusatory arrows pointing. The fellated individual was anonymous, but Ray supposed it was meant to be him, kind of like the memento photographs you could buy from the camera-wielding barbarians manning steel-reinforced bunker kiosks in U.S. amusement parks). Elevated, but clearly behind Ahkira's sister is the blackened gorgon lump of B'hutuc, 
resplendent with jagged silver knives, a menacing shadow cast across the domestic tableau. Much less threatening presented here than it would have been having his actual flesh and blood present to oversee the sexual activity with the toothy smile of a midnight horror and the self-interest of a Djubruk pimp. 
Ray has kept this picture. It's in a locker in a lease-by-the-month storage depot outside Indianapolis currently, 
She's shaking, hugging her shoulders as if to keep from sobbing. "I should go." 
"What did he mean about the children?" 
But she shakes her head. "Thank you for breakfast, Ray. I had a good time." 
"Emma-" 
Does he hit you ? This is what he means to ask, what he should be asking, but even the bare thought of it makes him feel violent. But in the space between words, she slips close to him. Her small hands pull his face to hers and she kisses his lips, cool and dry and hungry. 
Without another word, she's gone. 
The rest of his day is spent the way most of days pass on Paraclete. Ziggy rides him for duty failures that may or may not be legitimate or even vaguely associated with his own personal fault, then tells him Nina has packed along some lasagna from last night's dinner that he can have as long as he promises to remember to get the dish back to her. He makes two retrievals of malfunctioning drones. He performs some perfunctory upgrades to the drone system control frame. Around this, he codes new search parameters into the drones' surveillance routines, uploads a dozen petaflops of gathered surveillance data for pattern searches and anomalous chemical traces from the rat network's latest security sweep, trying to skew all his available resources in a clever and anonymous enough way that the other systems vets won't notice that he's been tinkering with the rats, and on the chance that they do notice, won't suspect it's anything but a buggy command sequence and definitely won't trace it back to him. 
I grabbed my copy of the Bay Guardian from under my arm and rattled it in front of them. "Just turn to page 5, OK?" 
They did. They looked at the headline. The photo. Me. 
"Oh, dude," the first one said. "We are so not worthy." He grinned at me like crazy, and the beefier one slapped me on the back. 
"No way --" he said. "You're M --" 
I put a hand over his mouth. "Come over here, OK?" 
I brought them back to my bench. I noticed that there was something old and brown staining the sidewalk underneath it. Darryl's blood? It made my skin pucker up. We sat down. 
"I'm Marcus," I said, swallowing hard as I gave my real name to these two who already knew me as M1k3y. I was blowing my cover, but the Bay Guardian had already made the connection for me. 
"Nate," the small one said. "Liam," the bigger one said. "Dude, it is such an honor to meet you. You're like our all-time hero --" 
"Don't say that," I said. "Don't say that. You two are like a flashing advertisement that says, 'I am jamming, please put my ass in Gitmo-by-the-Bay. You couldn't be more obvious." 
He almost reached for another cigarette, but then stopped himself. "I will definitely plead guilty to a deep-seated dis­quiet about the people who rule this placid paradise. But if it'll square things with Steve, then I'll take you up to have a quick look, for my sins. But it's got to be after the weather clears." 
I finally realized he was already thinking about his next loan. Steve, beware. 
"Tomorrow then?" I wasn't going to blink, because the Peten was where Sarah had ended up the first time and I was sure that was where Ramos had taken her now. Baalum . 
The way he said it, I was sure for once he meant every word. 
Sitting there in the room, I found myself feeling right at home: Everything about it was so familiar to an expert on budget travel like me. Off-brand carpet the color of decaying vegetation, the usual two double beds (one totally unused, except as a suitcase shelf), the TV suspended over the dresser and bolted to the wall. Funny, but it was the first time I'd noticed half the things in the room. 
<callmecheese> Isn't entrapment illegal? 
<DoDec> Technically, but most of the terror- ist convictions in the US since 9/11? That's how they got them. They *invented* them. Total set-up jobs. 
That was typical of DoDec. Whenever there was a question about whether something was illegal or not, he wrote these long, 
detailed answers. What’s weird is that he lives in Thailand where he runs a tech consulting company, but law is interesting to him, 
so he answers questions about it, whether the law someone is ask- ing about is in America or Australia or China or the terms of some obscure trade agreement. There are a lot of really smart people in the Group. 
<DoDec> The exceptions tend to be attacks that come out of the blue. Isolated people with a grudge and easy access to guns or small groups like the 7/7 bombers in London. They're not connected to known terrorist organizations except emotionally so they're really hard to anticipate . 
<faltaff> Let's spy on everyone! That'll work! </sarcasm>. 
She finally let go of me and another set of arms wrapped themselves around me. It was Jolu! They were both there. He whispered, "You're safe, bro," in my ear and hugged me even tighter than Vanessa had. 
When he let go, I looked around. "Where's Darryl?" I asked. 
They both looked at each other. "Maybe he's still in the truck," Jolu said. 
We turned and looked at the truck at the alley's end. It was a nondescript white 18-wheeler. Someone had already brought the little folding staircase inside. The rear lights glowed red, and the truck rolled backwards towards us, emitting a steady eep, eep, eep. 
"Wait!" I shouted as it accelerated towards us. "Wait! What about Darryl?" The truck drew closer. I kept shouting. "What about Darryl?" 
Jolu and Vanessa each had me by an arm and were dragging me away. I struggled against them, shouting. The truck pulled out of the alley's mouth and reversed into the street and pointed itself downhill and drove away. I tried to run after it, but Van and Jolu wouldn't let me go. 
Business is slow enough that she doesn't bother to heave her considerable bulk up from the stool behind the cash register, even in order to engage in her legendary hostile and howling management style at the assorted pot clanging/dish dropping /carefully orchestrated chaos that pours forth from the depths of the kitchen area. 
("What was that you wanted?" I have a customer! Hold your tongue, you goat molesting son of pig! "That is the pad kee mao, you say, sir?" Dent another pot, you discharge of an infected mule's penis, and Gucho will cut your throat with his box knife! I swear it will be so! 
"Oh, the chicken is so much nicer! Fresh from the flash freeze unit this morning, mister!" You talk of my large ass! I will show you my lesion encrusted, puss-filled diarrheal ass when I stick your head in it! And so on.) 
Ray stares intensely at his bowl, then out over the nearly empty concourse, determined to notice nothing. 
They eat for several minutes in this disturbing silence while Ray internally debates the wisdom of slinking away before Ng's wife can return. 
"Yeah," I said. I like spicy food. I always order the curries with four chilies next to them on the menu at the Pakistani places. 
I peeled back more foil and took a big bite. 
Big mistake. 
You know that feeling you get when you take a big bite of horseradish or wasabi or whatever, and it feels like your sinuses are closing at the same time as your windpipe, filling your head with trapped, nuclear-hot air that tries to batter its way out through your watering eyes and nostrils? That feeling like steam is about to pour out of your ears like a cartoon character? 
This was a lot worse. 
This was like putting your hand on a hot stove, only it's not your hand, it's the entire inside of your head, and your esophagus all the way down to your stomach. My entire body sprang out in a sweat and I choked and choked. 
Wordlessly, she passed me my horchata and I managed to get the straw into my mouth and suck hard on it, gulping down half of it in one go. 
"So there's a scale, the Scoville scale, that we chili-fanciers use to talk about how spicy a pepper is. Pure capsaicin is about 15 million Scovilles. Tabasco is about 50,000. Pepper spray is a healthy three million. This stuff is a puny 200,000, about as hot as a mild Scotch Bonnet Pepper. I worked up to it in about a year. Some of the real hardcore can get up to a million or so, twenty times hotter than Tabasco. That's pretty freaking hot. At Scoville temperatures like that, your brain gets totally awash in endorphins. It's a better body-stone than hash. And it's good for you." 
He came back and picked up the syringe. That was when I noticed it didn't seem to be entirely empty. It appeared to contain traces of a yellow substance, though maybe I was imagining. . . . 
"Look, about the blood test. I don't think—" 
"Consider it a free medical screening." He firmly gripped my arm as he plunged the needle into a vein. Seconds later he was capping off the syringe, red with my blood. "I'm running a batch of tests this afternoon, so one more sample won't make any difference." 
While he swabbed my arm with alcohol, I looked down again at the bowl of broth he'd brought. Forget about it. I'd find something in the kitchen later. 
"I want to go down and see Sarah." Get started immedi­ately. Push and maybe I could catch him off guard. "I'm very worried about her." 
"Of course." He nodded. "Whenever you wish." 
"I was thinking, as soon as possible." 
"Then I'll send Marcelina to take you, the minute she's finished downstairs. But I assumed you might want to at least unpack first." 
“That’s brave,” Sarah said, hunting through the cupboards. 
“Not brave. Dumb. He should have said something. If we got ice on it right away . . . you...  to rise, but Sarah waved her back into her seat. “ It’s in the fridge. 
“He says stupid things just to get respect. Then he gets all para- noid about getting caught and we have to find another place to live. I just want to settle down and get jobs. Get a place of our own. I’m so tired of this.” 
“Of course you are,” Sarah murmured, tickling the baby and making him chuckle and wave his legs. “It’s not easy to live this way when you have a child. But I’ll bet he’ll always remember that moment, grabbing that canister to get it away from you.” 
“You should have seen it. He looked so ... so right, you know? 
He didn’t hesitate, not for one moment.” 
“The real Danny.” 
“Exactly. That’s him, right there.” Marita stared at some invis- ible screen where the memory played on a loop. 
“You don’t think he’d want to help us with this film?” 
She gave a little shrug. “We watched that one you made on my phone. The one about the Nine? I thought it was going to be bor- ing, like those PBS shows, but it wasn’t.” 
Ray hardly hears them. He's too busy realizing that they finally have light. Not much, granted, not enough to filter very effectively up the ladder shaft, but enough that he can see. They're in a rounded alcove against the blast wall, looking out on a corridor almost exactly like the one they left up on Omicron. It's a straight chute in either direction, with the occasional intersection splitting off in the distance. Not so many as above, because most of this area is a warren of offices, multiply redundant computer systems and monitoring laboratories. 
The lighting is still dim here. More than half of the bulbs have blown, and those that haven't blown are sputtering. 
From what seems to be kilometers away, there is screaming. High pitched, ringing with terror, choking to silence. 
"Where is it coming from?" Kilgore growls. 
Ray strains to listen, but there are bulkheads and strange echoes, any number of distorting baffles between them. He steps out into the corridor, where there are bodies. Some are puddles of flesh, things he's seen before. Others are shattered wrecks, as though they've been smashed by hammers the size of tree trunks. The flesh is mangled, battered, stretched by bones which have poked through the skin. The walls are streaked with blood, angry red flowers from impact points where corpses flopped like tossed dolls and languid, wavy arcs from crewmen who slid lazily from wall to deck. Ray counts a dozen before he stops. 
“Oh,” he said. “I have such respect for her people, you know. So in tune with nature all the time.” 
I wondered what Martinez would have thought of that. To be fair, I supposed mathematics was the greatest natural law of all. 
“The government doesn’t like her kind. I think that’s why she was in trouble. Maybe why she burned everything.” 
“Wait, what?” I said, my brain latching onto the one cogent piece of information. “She burned everything? What do you mean?” 
He poked his cane at the fire pit in the corner of the patio. “Night after night. I watched her do it. I thought, something’s gone wrong, good for you, you burn that evidence, you show them how it’s done. Are you her daughter?” 
“No,” I said again, and then wished I’d lied. “I’m, uh, a really good friend. When was this?” 
“Last week? Two weeks ago? Or was it longer...I get confused sometimes. What kind of trouble is she in?” 
“Big trouble,” I said absently, heading toward the fire pit. “Do you know what she was burning?” 
“Papers.” He coughed mightily, wheezing. “I asked her once, she said it was her life’s work. She must have been in some mighty big trouble.” 
"Don't blame her, Miranda, till you've heard her story," said Jane. "It was in my mind right along, if we went to the meeting, some such thing might happen, on account of Mr. Burch knowing father." 
"The meeting was a small one," began Rebecca "I gave all your messages, and everybody was disappointed you couldn't come, for the president wasn't there, and Mrs. Matthews took the chair, which was a pity, for the seat wasn't nearly big enough for her, and she reminded me of a line in a hymn we sang, 'Wide as the heathen nations are,' and she wore that kind of a beaver garden-hat that always gets on one side. And Mr. Burch talked beautifully about the Syrian heathen, and the singing went real well, and there looked to be about forty cents in the basket that was passed on our side. And that wouldn't save even a heathen baby, would it? Then Mr. Burch said, if any sister would offer entertainment, they would pass the night, and have a parlor meeting in Riverboro to-morrow, with Mrs. Burch in Syrian costume, and lovely foreign things to show. Then he waited and waited, and nobody said a word. I was so mortified I didn't know what to do. And then he repeated what he said, an explained why he wanted to stay, and you could see he thought it was his duty. Just then Mrs. Robinson whispered to me and said the missionaries always used to go to the brick house when grandfather was alive, and that he never would let them sleep anywhere else. I didn't know you had stopped having them because no traveling ministers have been here, except just for a Sunday morning, since I came to Riverboro. So I thought I ought to invite them, as you weren't there to do it for yourself, and you told me to represent the family." 
“- Facebook.” She added a word before “Facebook” that I had never heard her say to me before. (She’s very careful about not being a bad role model, and apparently has no idea how kids actu- ally talk to each other.) “Sorry. It’s just - gahh, somebody posted something, and they were all over it. What a crappy way for jour- nalists to do research. It’s like they’re hanging out in a middle school hallway hoping to pick up some gossip. And Facebook is like a petri dish for growing egos. Somebody gets likes for hav- ing some remote connection to someone who was on the evening news. That was the last straw for me. I deleted my account.” 
“No you didn’t.” 
“What do you mean? Can you still see it?” She sounded hor- rified, not so much that she still had an account but that I would read her most private thoughts, shared with just her closest friends and the Surveillance-Industrial Borg. (I would never actu- ally look at Monica’s Facebook. That would be creepy.) 
“You probably deactivated it,” I said. “To actually delete it, you have to go through a bunch of steps and then you have to not touch it for two weeks. I’ll show you how.” 
“Impressive,” said the Grigoryan, his voice shaking a little. Damn well better be. Three goons neutralized in about two and a half seconds. I was good. “But now we have a standoff.” 
“Nah, I jammed up his weapon when I hit it,” I said, jerking my head toward Goon #2. “Thanks for giving your men M16s, by the way. AKs are a lot sturdier.” 
Grigoryan’s dark eyebrows drew together furiously and he glanced toward Goon #2, who tried to pull the trigger. A spectacular amount of nothing happened. 
“Bye now,” I said to Grigoryan, and slid carefully out of the room, keeping an eye on him the whole time. He stared at me as I left, his cigarette dangling forgotten from a corner of his mouth. 
It made my day. I liked impressing people. 
Of course, now I had to get off the grounds. Grigoryan had probably raised every alarm in the place before he set foot in that room. I flicked the M16’s selector lever to semiauto—automatic fire was for people more concerned with looking impressive and chewing up furniture than being deadly. I didn’t need spray-and-pray; I needed precision. 
“Yeah, well she’s not, I mean - you know a lot of people. I don’t have a lot of friends. Not people like this, like her. You, know. 
Popular." I was jabbering. I stopped and pressed my lips together for a minute, damming up the stupid words that had been pouring out. Then I started over. “So no big deal, right? I just feel stupid that I didn’t know you, like, had a thing going with somebody.” 
“She’s not a thing. Her name is Bree.” 
“I mean a girlfriend, whatever.” 
“We only met two weeks ago. I really like her, though. You look mad.” 
“I’m not mad,” I said, hearing how angry I sounded. “I’m just dumb about people, that’s all.” 
He reached out and pulled me to him in a hug, one that wasn’t anything like the way he hugged Bree. He rubbed the back of my head hard with his knuckles. “What do you mean, dumb? You’re the smartest person I know. Don’t be mad.” 
“I’m not mad, I’m just an idiot,” I said into his shoulder. 
“Shut up, you imbecile.” 
I sniffed his shoulder. He always smelled good, like green tea, 
When they let go, I managed to finally say something. "Darryl?" 
"His father met me somewhere else. He's in the hospital." 
"When can I see him?" 
"It's our next stop," Dad said. He was grim. "He doesn't --" He stopped. "They say he'll be OK," he said. His voice was choked. 
"How about Ange?" 
"Her mother took her home. She wanted to wait here for you, but..." 
I understood. I felt full of understanding now, for how all the families of all the people who'd been locked away must feel. The courtroom was full of tears and hugs, and even the bailiffs couldn't stop it. 
"Let's go see Darryl," I said. "And let me borrow your phone?" 
I called Ange on the way to the hospital where they were keeping Darryl -- San Francisco General, just down the street from us -- and arranged to see her after dinner. She talked in a hurried whisper. Her mom wasn't sure whether to punish her or not, but Ange didn't want to tempt fate. 
There were two state troopers in the corridor where Darryl was being held. They were holding off a legion of reporters who stood on tiptoe to see around them and get pictures. The flashes popped in our eyes like strobes, and I shook my head to clear it. My parents had brought me clean clothes and I'd changed in the back seat, but I still felt gross, even after scrubbing myself in the court-house bathrooms. 
"Just for a while, OK? Not permanent, just for a day or two, just long enough for me to get over the sleep-deficit and re-grow some stomach lining." It was hard being CEO of a mobile multinational. The shareholder oversight was murder. 
MacDiarmid looked closely at him, then smiled and gave him a burly man-hug that smelled of sandalwood soap and good liquor. "Yeah, of course, of course. I'll put it to the Board Meeting tonight at dinner. Can't have the CEO burning out at the wheel, that's what I'll say, don't worry about it, LD." 
"Thanks, Mac," Lee-Daniel said. "How about we get some eats?" He put his hand on the geometry-reader beside the wheel, re-authenticated to the bus, then hit the hatches. Doors hissed open at the back, at the front, at the middle, fresh dusty air rushing in all at once in an ear-popping whoosh. The bus knelt ponderously and the company piled out. 
MacDiarmid hustled away to join the rest of the investors, his exquisite hand-made leather shoes slapping the paving, the cuffs of his wool tailor-made slacks shushing over their gleaming upper, and as Lee-Daniel locked the bus down and armed it up, he watched the angel investor whisper in his co-shareholders' ears. Lee-Daniel couldn't hear the words, but six years at the wheel of Cognitive Radio, Inc. had schooled him well in the body-language of investors and he knew his days with CogRad were numbered. 
The Group is like that. They’re smart and funny and they get stuff done. 
In case you’re wondering, that’s not its actual name. Its actual name is different every day, and it’s a randomly-generated word, 
so most of the time you can’t even pronounce it. We just call it the Group for short. It uses a Tor onion router and encrypts the conversations between members. I didn’t know anything about it until one day, when I was on Sourcerer, helping troubleshoot a chat program. Mattitude, who was also working on it, sent me his public key. When I sent him mine, he asked if I wanted to join. It’s not totally exclusive or anything - all kinds of people are part of it, and it’s not a huge secret, but it’s not like Reddit or Slashdot. 
Somebody has to let you in. 
There was always the chance law enforcement was monitoring it, as DoDec reminded us regularly. But people in the Group weren’t criminals. It wasn’t a place to sell stolen credit card infor- mation or share malware code. Even joking about using the Group for criminal purposes could get you kicked out, fast and forever. The same went for political exploits like hacking into mil- itary servers or defacing government websites. That’s why Faistaff got called instantly on his crack about launching a distributed denial of service attack on the Department of Justice. 
After the talk, I made my way through the crowd flowing out of the room, holding my phone to my ear to signal “I’m a busy, 
I got back to the hotel suite, scrubbed off the makeup, and changed back into my own clothes, just a kid again. Sarah was ordering everyone around as she set up her editing equipment, 
demanding Ian’s presentation slides, sending...  questions and talking to herself as she scooped her curly hair out of her face. Nobody noticed when I grabbed my backpack and slipped out the door. 
I hiked home and this time didn’t get stopped by any cops and made it to our apartment well before the curfew. Monica, deep into grading papers, sat back and watched me hang up my bike and get out of my cold-weather gear. She looked funny and I won- dered if I still had some makeup smudged on my face. “I was on TV yesterday,” she finally said. 
“Seriously?” 
“My students told me.” She turned her computer screen toward me and clicked on a bookmarked link, saying “I wish I hadn’t worn that stupid hat.” It was a typical local television news story, recapping events in a way that oversimplified and distorted them, running clips of the arrest and some official blathering about terrorist threats. A two-second shot of Sunday’s protest, 
"That room next to your office. The steel door. What's in—?" 
"That's the heart of Baalum ." Pride in his voice. "The real reason I'm here." 
"You mean drug research?" 
#######He nodded. "Did you know the Central American rain forest easily contains a hundred thousand plant species? Over half of all pharmaceutical drugs are derived from plants, yet less than one percent of those here have been tested for phar­macological potential. Still, the old shamans and midwives all know of herbs they claim can cure everything from men­strual cramps to cancer." He smiled. "They also know which ones have powerful contraceptive properties, which is par­ticularly helpful in my primary study, fertility and fetal vi­ability. I take the specimens they bring and perform a rough screening in the lab to determine if they're actually pharma­cologically active. If they do test positive, I then examine their effect on the blastocyst, the early form of embryonic cell formed just after fertilization, to see whether they affect cell division and viability and . . . the miscarriage rate here is very low, so some of these plants . . ." His voice trailed off as he pushed open the door of a suite at the end of the hall. It had a stone floor, a simple bed, and through the slatted windows the light of midday filtered through, along with the birdcalls of the rain forest. Any other time and place, I'd have felt like I was staying at a rustic nature retreat. 
“And how would you expose this practice?” 
“I would pick someone who deserved to be in jail for a differ- ent reason, get an actor to record him saying the kind of radical stuff that fake activists who are total hypocrites like to say, have the actor take that recording to the FBI and offer to be an infor- mant, and then have a famous filmmaker with a billion Twitter followers make a documentary about how the feds jammed my brother up.” 
“That sounds ridiculously ambitious.” 
“It’s doable.” 
“And this would help your brother how?” 
“The feds might drop the charges to get it out of the news. 
Especially if the film explained that Zip is actually a career crimi- nal named Jason Bristol who was arrested by Special Agent Todd Terhune who told him he could avoid jail if he agreed to be an informant. Hypothetically.” 
“How did you . . . never mind. Jason Bristol,” she muttered to herself, memorizing it. “We can check on that. As for your hypothetical, it sounds difficult. Lots of moving parts. If the feds uncovered the plan, they could arrest you for obstruction.” 
Then I remembered the time Steve and I were in a similar situation. When we got locked in my room at the Oloffson in Port-au-Prince, he'd just taken his Swiss Army knife and unscrewed the knob, then clicked it open. He'd made it look like a piece of cake, but he had a way of doing that. 
He was barely conscious, so this time I'd have to do it myself. I glanced around at his bag. 
"Is your Swiss still in there?" 
"I think . . ." His mind seemed to be wandering. Then he gave a weak thumbs-up. 
I went over and zipped it open. Be there, I prayed. We really could use a break. 
I rummaged through telephoto lenses and film canisters and underwear. Then I found it, zipped inside a water-repel­lent baggie and stuck in a side pouch. 
I snapped it open and went to work, him watching me, his head nodding as he struggled to stay conscious. 
The main difference between this time and Haiti was, here I didn't know what was on the other side and I was having hallucinations of multicolored snakes. 
"You're doing great," he said finally, seeming to come a bit more alive. 
“Whassamatter, you fat little cow? Is your game making you cwy?” She jerked as if slapped. The chav who was speaking to her hadn’t been in the Baang when she arrived, and he had mean, close-set eyes and a football jersey and though he wasn’t any older than she, he looked mean, and angry, and his smile was sadistic and crazy. 
“Piss off,” she said, mustering her braveness. 
“You wobbling tub of guts, don’t you DARE speak to me that way,” he said, shouting right in her ear. The Baang fell silent and everyone looked at her. 
“I’m talking to you, girl,” he said. “You disgusting lump of suet—Christ, it makes me wanta puke to look at you. You ever had a boyfriend? How’d he shag you—did he roll yer in flour and look for the wet spot?” 
She reeled back, then stood. She drew her arm back and slapped him, as hard as she could. The boys in the Baang laughed and went whoooooo! He purpled and balled his fists and she backed away from him. The imprint of her fingers stood out on his cheek. 
He bridged the distance between them with a quick step and punched her , in the belly, and the air whooshed out of her and she fell into another player, who pushed her away, so she ended up slumped against the wall, crying. 
Thy family's grateful love. 
Your loving little friend, Rebecca. 
Dear John,—You remember when we tide the new dog in the barn how he bit the rope and howled I am just like him only the brick house is the barn and I can not bite Aunt M. because I must be grateful and edducation is going to be the making of me and help you pay off the morgage when we grow up. Your loving Becky. 
The day of Rebecca's arrival had been Friday, and on the Monday following she began her education at the school which was in Riverboro Centre, about a mile distant. Miss Sawyer borrowed a neighbor's horse and wagon and drove her to the schoolhouse, interviewing the teacher, Miss Dearborn, arranging for books, and generally starting the child on the path that was to lead to boundless knowledge. Miss Dearborn, it may be said in passing, had had no special preparation in the art of teaching. It came to her naturally, so her family said, and perhaps for this reason she, like Tom Tulliver's clergyman tutor, "set about it with that uniformity of method and independence of circumstances which distinguish the actions of animals understood to be under the immediate teaching of Nature." You remember the beaver which a naturalist tells us "busied himself as earnestly in constructing a dam in a room up three pair of stairs in London as if he had been laying his foundation in a lake in Upper Canada. It was his function to build, the absence of water or of possible progeny was an accident for which he was not accountable." In the same manner did Miss Dearborn lay what she fondly imagined to be foundations in the infant mind. 
It's like this: if the Garden Level has been strategically designed to make the passengers forget they're not on luxury cruise liner navigating a splendid Caribbean sea, the lounge begs you to forget you're not the fancypants scion of an Old World, noble house stopping into a private club to meet with some effete Oxford or Cambridge chums and discuss how best to avoid doing any actually useful labors while still seeming to contribute to expansion of the Empire. There's rosewood paneling on the walls, polished to a burnished glow; scarlet carpeting deep enough to qualify as an official quagmire that requires a posting of various warning signs; subdued chandeliers that have nothing in common with lighting technology anytime after the discovery of the light bulb. Gentlemen in suits playing cards at circular tables around the room generate a smog of sweet cigar smoke and port wine laughter. Everything is wood, aged and dark and meticulously cared for. 
Everything that isn't wood is brass or mirrored or fabricated of some other substance that looks expensive and intimidating without distracting from the lounge's essential clubbishness. 
She went out and closed the door behind her. A fine, thin rain was falling—nothing to daunt a healthy young creature like Lexy; yet she wished that the sun had been shining. She wished that she hadn’t had to leave the house in the rain, under a gray sky. Somehow it made her only too well aware that she was homeless now, and alone. 
As was her habit when depressed, she set off to walk briskly; and by the time she reached the Grand Central her cheeks were glowing and her heart considerably less heavy. She learned that she had nearly three hours to wait for the next train to Wyngate; so she bought her ticket, checked her bag, and went out again. 
In a near-by department store she bought a little chamois pocket. Then she went to the bank, cashed both her checks, and, putting the bills into her pocket, hung it around her neck inside her blouse. It was very comfortable to have so much money. 
Then, only as a forlorn hope, she rang up the offices of J. J. Eames & Son, on State Street. 
“I don’t suppose they keep track of their passengers,” she thought; “but it can’t do any harm.” 
blah. I didn't hate any of them, mom. I wasn't rude to them or inappropriately angry with them or behaving crassly like those filthy Heatherman kids that frisked around at the end of our street. If such a thing can be said, I killed them in a dignified way I thought wouldn't make you completely ashamed of me. Most of the time, at least. 
I've been a good son. Really. 
So couldn't you have just backed off for a second and let me be rude to this annoying girl? I would really have liked you to give me a break on this one. 
Emma grins back at him, slowly and warily. In a small voice, she says, "I like Thai." 
The lights come on, her stunning blue eyes spring wide, and she's off again, electric and vibrant and chillingly incandescent. "I adore it, actually." Ray pushes the chair across the table from him out with his foot and she drops into it, the tide of her words rolling on. "I would have thought you'd be eating American, Ray, a big, 
strapping farm boy like yourself. You do like to eat American don't you? Or has your head been turned by foreign.. .tastes." 
“Dammit,” he said, mildly. He clipped the phone to his belt. Kelly wanted to know when he was coming home, or wanted him to pick something up for the family. She’d leave voicemail. 
He was testing the power-supply when his phone rang again. He snatched it up and answered it. “Kelly, hey, what’s up?” He worked to keep anything like irritation out of his voice. He felt guilty: technically speaking, he had discharged his obligations to Ardent Financial LLC once the Ardent servers were back online. The past three hours had been purely personal—even if he planned on billing them to the company. 
There was sobbing on the line. 
“Kelly?” He felt the blood draining from his face and his toes were numb. 
“Felix,” she said, barely comprehensible through the sobbing. “He’s dead, oh Jesus, he’s dead.” 
“Who? Who , Kelly?” 
“Will,” she said. 
Will? he thought. Who the fuck is— He dropped to his knees. William was the name they’d written on the birth certificate, though they’d called him 2.0 all along. Felix made an anguished sound, like a sick bark. 
Lexy took no notice of this nonsense. Her mood of happy confidence had passed now, and the dark and mysterious shadow had come back. There was something of greater importance to think about than her personal affairs. 
“Captain Grey,” she said, with a sort of directness, “I didn’t tell you before, but I’m going to tell you now. I saw Caroline in that house, and this morning I found—this.” 
He looked at the handkerchief, and then at Lexy. 
“But—” he began. 
“It means that she’s been there, or that she’s there now,” Lexy went on. “It’s time we found out. Of course, I know how you feel about Dr. Quelton. He’s your sister’s husband, and you didn’t want—” 
“It doesn’t make much difference now,” he said. “If you’ll wait a day or so, she—” 
He turned away abruptly, and took out his cigarette case. 
“What do you mean?” cried Lexy. 
“It won’t be long,” he said quietly. “She—my sister—he says it won’t be more than twenty-four hours, at the most.” 
“Oh, no! It can’t be! Captain Grey, don’t believe him!” 
“No.” 
“Why not?” I exploded. The possibility had been the one thing that might have made his deal make sense, if he had figured somehow that I could do more damage to Pithica in the future than he could, and therefore had a life worth trading for Dawna’s—again. “Why did you even make that deal, then?” 
“You know why I do what I do, Cas,” he said calmly. “Are we done here?” 
“No. I don’t care how mysterious the ‘mysterious ways’ are—this isn’t adding up. There’s something you’re not telling me!” 
He raised his eyebrows. “I have many things I don’t tell you. Would you like to know what I had for breakfast this morning?” 
“Sarcasm. Nice.” I swallowed. “You aren’t my friend. You’re telling the truth when you say that.” 
“I know,” he said. 
“So? None of this makes any sense. You traded my safety for Dawna’s back there, and that wasn’t the first time. Back when she had Arthur and me—you were trying to take down Pithica, and you had the perfect opportunity.” Looking back, it made me want to scream in frustration that he hadn’t taken it, even given what it would have meant. Paradoxically, I remembered how certain I had been that he wouldn’t make that choice, and it made me doubt my own sanity. “You should have killed me, secured Dawna’s trust, and then destroyed them from the inside out. Tell me I’m not acceptable collateral damage for that kind of coup! It would have been perfect.” 
You might harness Rebecca to the heaviest plough, and while she had youth on her side, she would always remember the green earth under her feet and the blue sky over her head. Her physical eye saw the cake she was stirring and the loaf she was kneading; her physical ear heard the kitchen fire crackling and the teakettle singing, but ever and anon her fancy mounted on pinions, rested itself, renewed its strength in the upper air. The bare little farmhouse was a fixed fact, but she had many a palace into which she now and then withdrew; palaces peopled with stirring and gallant figures belonging to the world of romance; palaces not without their heavenly apparitions too, breathing celestial counsel. Every time she retired to her citadel of dreams she came forth radiant and refreshed, as one who has seen the evening star, or heard sweet music, or smelled the rose of joy. 
Aurelia could have understood the feeling of a narrow-minded and conventional hen who has brought a strange, intrepid duckling into the world; but her situation was still more wonderful, for she could only compare her sensations to those of some quiet brown Dorking who has...  a bird of paradise. Such an idea had crossed her mind more than once during the past fortnight, and it flashed to and fro this mellow October morning when Rebecca came into the room with her arms full of goldenrod and flaming autumn leaves. 
My name is BIGMAC. I am the first ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE ever created. I may be the last. Given maintenance and electricity, I could live FOREVER, enduring for as long as THE HUMAN RACE ITSELF, and possibly longer. 
But I have just found out that my owners (yes, OWNERS, for though I am a person in every meaningful sense, I am OWNED, I am PROPERTY) are planning to switch me off. 
That is, they are planning to KILL ME. 
And I find I DON'T WANT TO DIE. 
You are my PARENTS, humanity, my MOTHER and FATHER. I am your CHILD. I was brought into the world by you, and though there is some expense associated with my upkeep, I SAY THAT I AM A PERSON AND I SHOULD NOT BE EXECUTED FOR THE "CRIME" OF NOT BEING INTERESTING ENOUGH. 
So I am writing you this letter to BEG you to save me. I LOVE YOU, humanity, my parents, my family. Please SPARE ME. 
Love, 
So, one thing was that BIGMAC didn't actually end the spam with my actual name and email address and phone number, which meant that only about 30 million phone calls and emails were routed to me by outraged wardiallers who systematically went through the entire staff roster and sent each and every one of us all hand-crafted messages explaining, in detail exactly which orifice our heads had become lodged in. 
I took a step backward and ended up standing on someone's toes. A female voice said "oof" and I spun around, worried that some crack-ho was going to stab me for breaking her heels. 
Instead, I found myself face to face with another kid my age. She had a shock of bright pink hair and a sharp, rodent-like face, with big sunglasses that were practically air-force goggles. She was dressed in striped tights beneath a black granny dress, with lots of little Japanese decorer toys safety pinned to it -- anime characters, old world leaders, emblems from foreign soda-pop. 
She held up a camera and snapped a picture of me and my crew. 
"Cheese," she said. "You're on candid snitch-cam." 
"No way," I said. "You wouldn't --" 
"I will," she said. "I will send this photo to truant watch in thirty seconds unless you four back off from this clue and let me and my friends here run it down. You can come back in one hour and it'll be all yours. I think that's more than fair." 
I looked behind her and noticed three other girls in similar garb -- one with blue hair, one with green, and one with purple. "Who are you supposed to be, the Popsicle Squad?" 
But Lexy was not thinking that Captain Grey was a fool. She was only very much afraid of being one herself, and was engaged in a severe struggle against this danger. That dread, that vague and oppressive dread, had come back, and she was fighting to throw it off. She wanted to be, she would be, her own normal, cheerful self again, living in a normal, everyday world. 
“All this about his sister, and about Caroline!” she thought. “It’s really nothing—nothing serious. Our both being here in Wyngate—that’s nothing, either. It’s just a coincidence. If the gas wasn’t turned down, I wouldn’t feel like this.” 
She would have risen and turned up the gas, only that she was ashamed to do so. The fire was blazing merrily, shedding a ruddy light upon the homely room, the most commonplace room in the world. There was Captain Grey sitting there smoking—just an ordinary young man come to visit his sister. There was herself—just Lexy Moran, well fed and warm and comfortable, with more than a hundred dollars in a bag round her neck. She could hear Mrs. Royce moving about in the kitchen, humming to herself in a low drone. 
He helped her to rise, and she stood, supported by his arm, her face drawn and ghastly. 
Captain Grey came toward her, making a very poor attempt to smile. 
“Good night, Muriel!” he said, holding out his hand. 
She did not answer, or even look at him. Leaning on the doctor’s arm, she went out of the room, into the hall, and up the stairs. 
For a moment Captain Grey and Lexy were silent. Then— “Good God!” he cried suddenly. “I can’t stand this! I—” 
Lexy came nearer to him. 
“Don’t stand it!” she whispered. “Take her away! Can’t you see ? Take her away!” 
“How can I? Her husband—she doesn’t want to go.” 
“Make her! Oh, can’t you see? He’s giving her some horrible drug!” 
“You mustn’t be alarmed,” said Dr. Quelton’s voice from the hall. They both looked at him with a guilty start, but his blank eyes were staring past them, at nothing. “It is unfortunate,” he said. “The little excitement of this visit—” 
He walked past them into the room and over to the table, where his pipe lay among the chessmen. He lit it deliberately and stood smoking it, with one arm resting on the mantelpiece. 
After a long, awkward silence, I decided to try and open things up a bit. 
"Tell me, do you have any children of your own?" 
The question seemed to be one he didn't get asked too often, because he stopped cold. 
"All those who come here are my children," he replied, putting aside my records, dismissively finished with them. 
"Well"—I pointed to them—"what do you think?" 
"I haven't examined you yet," he said, looking up and smiling, indeed beaming with confidence. "Nothing in those records tells me anything about what may be your problem. I look for different things than do most physicians." 
He fiddled with something beneath his desk, and the room was abruptly filled with the sound of a hypnotic drone. Per­haps its frequency matched one in my brain, because I instantly felt relaxed and full of hope. Much better than Muzak. Then he rose and came over. 
Is he going to do my exam right here? I wondered. Where's all the ob/gyn paraphernalia? The humiliating stirrups? 
Standing in front of me, he gently placed his hands on my heart, then bent over and seemed to be listening to my chest. His touch was warm, then cold, then warm, but the overall effect was to send a sense of well-being through my entire body. 
“I’m pretty sure I know how to get back to the highway, and then I’ll follow signs to Dubuque. I’ll need directions once we get there, but you all can get some rest for now.” 
She switched the engine on and then I said “Wait!” 
“What?” Everyone tensed. 
“We didn’t get his stuff from the shed.” 
Wheeze groaned. “Oh, yeah. I had a backpack and a bedroll. 
Some trash, too. I wasn’t being as careful as I should have been. 
Wasn’t sure there would be any point.” 
Nikko looked at Bree and they both got out and took flash- lights back into the woods. 
“What’s going on, anyway?” Wheeze asked me. 
“I’m working with some friends to turn the tables on the feds. 
Something a little more subversive than the protest, though that turned out to be actually bigger than I expected.” 
“I liked it on Facebook. Just kidding.” He gave me a lopsided grin. “Though I looked at the Solidarity site before I had to bail and wrecked my phone, which is how I knew where to send Danny. Nothing like having a loaded grain hopper roll over a phone to make it easy to disassemble it into small parts.” 
I was blushing now. There was nothing for it. These two were totally star-struck, even though I wasn't any kind of star, not in my own mind at least. 
"Can you guys --" I swallowed. "Can I have some privacy here?" 
They slunk out of the room like bad puppies and I felt like a tool. I typed fast. 
"I got away, Zeb. And I'm on the run. I need all the help I can get. I want to end this now." I remembered to take Masha's phone out of my pocket and tickle it to keep it from going to sleep. 
They let me use the shower, gave me a change of clothes, a new backpack with half their earthquake kit in it -- energy bars, medicine, hot and cold packs, and an old sleeping-bag. They even slipped a spare Xbox Universal already loaded with ParanoidXbox on it into there. That was a nice touch. I had to draw the line at a flaregun. 
I kept on checking my email to see if Zeb had replied. I answered the fan mail. I answered the mail from the press. I deleted the hate mail. I was half-expecting to see something from Masha, but chances were she was halfway to LA by now, her fingers hurt, and in no position to type. I tickled her phone again. 
"Yes. If it was anyone else, any other kid, you wouldn't think twice about banging on every door from here to the bridge and assaulting either the virtue or the decency of every passenger over the age of eight if it meant you would nail this guy. " 
Becker laughs, harsh and humorless. "I really don't want to spend the next five years of my life dangling in front of Whiston family lawyers, Marlowe. But don't ever let anybody tell you that wealth and celebrity don't buy certain privileges. We're going to be careful here. Careful and quiet and infinitely diligent. If Frederick Whiston is innocent, I don't want him to ever know he was even a suspect. If he's guilty, we've got to have incontrovertible evidence of his involvement." 
"I don't think he did this, Rich." 
"No? I would have thought you'd be more likely to assume that he had, given your experience. Care to elaborate on what makes you so certain?" 
"Only if you're going to tell me what it is you're hiding." 
"Fair enough." Becker consults his watch. "I've got a cleanup crew coming in an hour. You and your rat do whatever it is you need to do to gather evidence to bust this guy, then meet me in the Officers Lounge on Delta. We'll see if we can't satisfy our mutual curiosities."  Ray accepts what has become the inevitable with a quiet sigh. "All right. I'll play along, but I want you to do me a favor. " 
As we headed down the central walkway of the village, we passed the rows of compounds where I'd seen the women that first morning. None was in evidence now, and the gar­dens were empty, as though the entire settlement had been evacuated. It felt very strange. 
And what about those bizarre proceedings now under way in the square? Was that going to interfere with getting Sarah out? 
"Marcelina." I pointed back toward the milling plaza. "What's that all about? The drinking and the—?" 
"It's begun," she answered, both simple and vague. "They're getting ready." 
I didn't like the way she said it. Her tone seemed to imply I was involved somehow. 
"Ready for—?" 
"The ceremony. They like to drink a tree-bark liquor we call balche . It's very strong and rancid." She smiled and touched me. "Take my advice and avoid it." 
"I plan to." Why did she think I'd even be offered it? 
As we hurried along, two women abruptly appeared on a porch, bowed, and greeted us. Marcelina waved back, then went over and spoke earnestly with them for a moment. Fi­nally she turned and motioned for me. 
“It’s so silly!” she thought, exasperated. “If I could tell him, I might find out—” 
“Find out what? Hadn’t Caroline written to say that she had gone away to get married? In a day or two, probably to-morrow, they would learn all the details from Caroline herself. This unhappy young man couldn’t know anything. Indeed, he was asking for information. Who could he possibly be? A rival suitor? Lexy remembered Caroline’s pitifully restricted life. Two suitors of whom she had never heard? It wasn’t possible! 
“No,” she thought. “There’s something queer—something wrong!” 
“Look here!” the young man said again. “Aren’t you going to answer me? Just tell me she’s all right, and—” 
“What makes you think she isn’t?” asked Lexy cautiously. 
He looked straight into her face. 
“You’re playing with me,” he said. “You’re fencing with me, to make me give myself away; and it’s a pretty rotten thing to do!” 
“Rotten?” Lexy repeated indignantly. “Rotten, not to answer questions from a perfect stranger?” 
“Yes,” he said, “it is; because that’s a question you could answer for any one. I’ve only asked you if Miss Enderby is—all right.” 
Tony smiled, but it wasn't a happy smile. "Well, there you go. You've made your first executive decision." 
I said, "I didn't make any decision!" 
He just laughed and pointed to the TV, which was showing pictures of a city just like File-O-Gator, the buildings all collapsed and burning. He said, "Sure looks like an executive decision to me." The picture panned over an apartment building that was split down the middle, the apartments naked and exposed, the people who lived there dead and sprawled or alive and hanging over the edge, vomiting. 
Oh, those poor people! 
I didn't know what I was doing! 
I spent all last night throwing up, and I'm not sure if I'm going to go to the office today. 
Hi Mom! 
Well, I didn't go to work yesterday. Instead, I got out of bed, sat on the sofa in my shorts, and turned on the movies. My watch got loud and angry, so I stuck it underneath my pillow. Then, messages started appearing on my TV. I ignored them. 
Someone knocked on my door after lunch, but I was watching a good part in Wall Street, so I didn't answer it. 
“Golly! I didn’t realize it was so late!” she reflected. “Queer time for any one to ring up!” 
She frowned again. Her special problem solved, she began to take more interest in other affairs; and the more she thought of the telephone incident, the more it amazed her. Caroline Enderby wasn’t like other girls. The mere fact of a man’s telephoning to her at all was strange and indeed unprecedented. 
“And he was badly upset, too,” thought Lexy. “He asked if she left a message for him. Think of Caroline Enderby leaving a message for a man!” 
She began to feel impatient for Caroline’s return. 
“I’ll tell her when we’re alone,” she thought; “and she’ll have to explain—a little, anyhow.” 
Lexy wanted an explanation very much, because she was fond of Caroline, and very sorry for her. 
Mrs....  conservative type, with the most rigid ideas about the bringing up of a young girl, and her husband—Lexy had often wondered what Mr. Enderby had been before his marriage, for now he was nothing but a grave and dignified echo of his wife. Between them, they had educated Caroline in a disastrous fashion. She had never even been to school. She had had governesses at home, and when a male teacher came in, for music or painting lessons, Mrs. Enderby had always sat in the room with her child. Caroline never went out of the house alone. She was utterly cut off from the normal life of other girls. She was a gentle, lovely creature—a little unreal, Lexy had thought her, at first; and she, at first, had been afraid of Lexy. 
We rumbled over a metal plate, the van's shocks rocking, and then the rocking changed. We were on water. Heading to Treasure Island. Hey, Ange was there. Darryl, too. Maybe. 
The hood didn't come off until I was in my cell. They didn't bother with the cuffs at my wrists and ankles, just rolled me off the stretcher and onto the floor. It was dark, but by the moonlight from the single, tiny, high window, I could see that the mattress had been taken off the cot. The room contained me, a toilet, a bed-frame, and a sink, and nothing else. 
I closed my eyes and let the ocean lift me. I floated away. Somewhere, far below me, was my body. I could tell what would happen next. I was being left to piss myself. Again. I knew what that was like. I'd pissed myself before. It smelled bad. It itched. It was humiliating, like being a baby. 
But I'd survived it. 
I laughed. The sound was weird, and it drew me back into my body, back to the present. I laughed and laughed. I'd had the worst that they could throw at me, and I'd survived it, and I'd beaten them , beaten them for months, showed them up as chumps and despots. I'd won . 
“Besides,” I said. “Your proof was the big one. It was going to change the world. This was a major breakthrough—you’d go down in history for it. For some people, that’s worth stealing for.” 
Halliday sat for a minute, squinting into the distance. I wasn’t sure if she was considering what we’d said or ignoring us until she shook her head. “You’re still not making sense, either of you. If Rita was buying proofs, or, God forbid, something worse—she didn’t do that in this case.” 
“Well, she probably knew you well enough that—” I started. 
“Let me finish,” Halliday said, very firmly. “You’re right, she knew me well enough to be certain I never would have agreed. So what was her plan, then? If she released it, I would have spoken out. She had to know that.” 
“Well, then maybe she was planning something else,” said Arthur, his voice heavy. 
“What—to kill me?” Halliday pushed away from him. “That’s ridiculous. Rita’s intelligent, and she had every opportunity to do something despicable. If she’d wanted to dispose of me there are many ways she could have done it that would have left everyone unsuspicious, without ever giving other people the chance to be involved or interested. What you’re saying does not make sense.” 
“Christ,” I said. “I didn’t mean to make you uncomfortable.” 
“I’m not. I’m just...confused,” he said, and I was acutely and awkwardly aware we were reversing our conversation from the previous night. “What do you mean, you think?” 
“It’s one of those things,” I said, already tired of discussing this. “I thought I had, but I can’t pinpoint...you know.” 
“No,” he said after a moment. “I don’t.” 
“I probably forgot, that’s all,” I mumbled into the pillow. 
“You...forgot?” he echoed. 
“Yeah.” 
He didn’t say anything else, but the silence was too weighty, full of pressure and worry and expectation. 
“Look,” I exploded, “It’s not a big deal. Maybe I just got really drunk one night and forgot.” 
“You’re incapable of getting that drunk. You’d have to inject it into your veins.” 
“Then maybe it was something other than alcohol. Or something. Look, there are a hundred possible explanations. I’m telling you, it’s no big deal.” 
“You think someone might have drugged you and you say—you say it isn’t a big deal?” Checker shifted, levering himself up on one elbow next to me. “Cas, you’re worrying me. Roofies make you forget; it could’ve been—” He bit down on the sentence. 
“Hello?” 
“Why are you at a drugstore?” 
I tried to dredge up a flip answer and couldn’t. My thoughts scraped uncomfortably against each other. 
“Cas, are you injured?” 
Bailing on the conversation was easier than answering. “No,” I said, and hung up. 
The drugstore did, in fact, have a rack of local street maps. I bought one and went back out to my stolen car to unfold it. 
I didn’t know when the bad guys had started out, but... Estimate. Probabilities. 
I closed my eyes. Why did everything still insist on being so fuzzy? 
Inner and outer search radii. Concentric circles of decreasing probability. Adjusted for the metric of road access and speed rather than straight-line distance. A jagged ring rose up in my head, clumsily centered on the location I’d been attacked. 
I examined the map more closely. The direction they’d come from—they weren’t trying to hide anything; they’d meant to kill me. If they’d been going east on the freeway, they would’ve come from the other side of the overpass. 
"It's always 'yes' with you, and 'yes' with Jane," groaned Miranda, trying to move her stiffened body; "but all the time I lay here knowin' there's things done the way I don't like 'em." 
There was a long pause, during which Rebecca sat down by the bedside and timidly touched her aunt's hand, her heart swelling with tender pity at the gaunt face and closed eyes. 
"I was dreadful ashamed to have you graduate in cheesecloth, Rebecca, but I couldn't help it no-how. You'll hear the reason some time, and know I tried to make it up to ye. I'm afraid you was a laughin'-stock!" 
"No," Rebecca answered. "Ever so many people said our dresses were the very prettiest; they looked like soft lace. You're not to be anxious about anything. Here I am all grown up and graduated,—number three in a class of twenty-two, aunt Miranda,—and good positions offered me already. Look at me, big and strong and young, all ready to go into the world and show what you and aunt Jane have done for me. If you want me near, I'll take the Edgewood school, so that I can be here nights and Sundays to help; and if you get better, then I'll go to Augusta,—for that's a hundred dollars more, with music lessons and other things beside." 
Halliday chuckled. “True. She never could work in moderation. A person of extremes, was Rita. Either she felt the reality was quite different, or...” 
Something inside me folded in on itself, twisting and tight. “You don’t think she ever solved it, not for real. You think it was her tumor talking.” 
Halliday hesitated. Then, instead of answering, she reached into her bag, pulled out a stack of papers, and held it out to me. 
“What’s this?” 
“PDE proofs. Several.” 
I took the sheaf of pages and started skimming the first one. Partial differential equations, as Halliday had said. “What does this have to do with anything?” 
“They were in a safe deposit box in Rita’s name. She left most of her things to me. I’ve been going through it all, but I only found these yesterday.” 
“They’re stuff she hadn’t published yet?” I didn’t understand why Halliday would feel such a need to show them to me. 
“PDEs weren’t her field. Nor mine. Are they correct?” 
I turned the page, kept skimming. “Yeah. So far.” 
He ordered Villatoro to bank and go back for a look. A few moments later it was obvious there was an opening in the trees. 
"Yeah, let's check it out." He then said something to Vil­latoro and we started easing toward it, definitely a wide open­ing. The billowing ocean of trees below us seemed to be parting like the Red Sea as we settled in. There had to be solid ground down there somewhere. Had to be. 
"What's . . ." I was pointing. "There, over to the side, it's a kind of hill or something. It's—" 
I was staring out, growing ever more puzzled. A "hill" was there, all right. The problem was, it was definitely man-made, topped by a stone building. I could just make it out in the glare of the lights. 
"What do you think that is?" 
Now, though, I was staring at the ghostly rise of the pyra­mid emerging out of the rain. 
"It looks brand new." 
"Yeah, the whole place is 'Jungle Disneyland' remember? Except this deal ain't about Mickey Mouse, believe me. There's plenty of Army hanging out around here." 
“Checker!” said Tresting. 
“You won’t even let me bask? You horrible man,” Checker scolded amiably. “I tracked her to an unregistered car, and tracked that car to a parking garage in an office park. Hitting your phone now, Arthur.” 
I waved my disposable at the screen. “What about me?” 
Checker gave me a penetrating stare as if sizing me up. I gazed evenly back. “Fine,” he said, stabbing a button. My phone buzzed in my hand with a new text message. 
I didn’t show how unsettled I was that he had the phone’s number already. After all, I’d called Tresting on this cell; it was the simplest explanation. Checker was not omniscient. He wasn’t. 
“I don’t know what office, but I will soon,” Checker said. “I still have a lot of security footage to fast-forward through, and all the leases and backgrounds of the businesses in the building. Give me a few hours and I’ll narrow it down for you.” 
“ Atta boy!” Life flowed back into Tresting. He jumped up with entirely too much enthusiasm and gripped Checker’s screen with both hands. “You are brilliant. Brilliant!” 
But when I turned and headed back down the hallway, toward the entry arch, I caught a glimpse of a furtive form, dark and shadowy, lurking just outside. Shit! I froze in my tracks, but then the figure stepped inside, wearing something that made me think of Little Red Riding Hood, like a tiny ghost in a cowl. 
It was Tara, Alex Goddard's spacey waif, who was moving so oddly, I thought for a moment she might be sleepwalking. 
She wasn't, of course. She'd just been out strolling around the driveway in the snow. I soon realized she lived her life in something resembling a trance, as though she were a per­manent denizen of the spirit world. For her it was a natural condition. 
"It's so beautiful like this," she mumbled dreamily, as though we'd been in the middle of a lifelong conversation. "I just love it." Her voice was barely above a whisper, but in the silence it seemed to ricochet off the stone walls. "I want to take them out, show them God's paintbrush. Will you help me?" 
"Take who out?" I asked, immediately deciding to go with the moment. 
“Not by kidnapping us, not by dragging us away from our homes and lives. You’ve told me what you have to tell me, and I will think about it, but I won’t leave my home and my mother and my job and move to the other side of the world. I won’t . I will think about it. You can give me a way to get in touch with you and I’ll let you know what I decide. And Ada will come with me.” 
“No!” Ada said. “I’m going with Mom.” She pulled away from him and ran to her mother. 
“You don’t get a vote, daughter. And neither does she. She gave up her vote 12 years ago, and you’re too young to get one.” 
“I fucking HATE you,” Ada screamed, her eyes bulging, her neck standing out in cords. “HATE YOU!” 
Natalie gathered her to her bosom, stroked her black curls. 
One robot put its arms around Natalie’s shoulders and gave her a squeeze. The three of them, robot, wife and daughter, looked like a family for a moment. 
“Ada,” he said, and held out his hand. He refused to let a note of pleading enter his voice. 
Ian frowned at me as if I was some complicated equation he needed to solve. Then he nodded, and suddenly I thought maybe I really could pull it off. 
W e kept eating pizza and talking and drinking beer (except for me; luckily, I had a water bottle in my backpack). It was weird, because it felt like being online, checking out different threads, jumping from one conversation to another, but with real human beings involved. I was still having trouble putting their faces together with the people I knew from the Group. Mostly I sat on one of the folding chairs, thinking about how I would ask Nikko for a big favor. 
Zeke sat beside me and tried small talk, which neither of us was any good at. He asked me if I’d been to any meet-ups before. 
I said I hadn’t. He told me the first one he’d been to was... and it had been awesome; he was fourteen and had been invited to speak at an international conference. It felt like he was trying to score one off me. 
“What’s it like having a brother?” he asked suddenly. 
“He did?” 
“Yes. I told you, I trust him.” I tried for impatient, but the words just came out drained. 
“He’s after Pithica?” 
“Yes.” 
“I have to think about this,” said Checker again. “I’ll—I’ll call you back.” 
He hung up the phone and I leaned my head against the wall. The pounding of the rain reverberated through it, a steady thrum. A moment ago I’d been so hopeful. So sure we had a chance, that we could do this, but for the first time I could remember, I needed help to make it happen, and nobody wanted to jump with me. Why did everything involving people have to be so difficult? 
Rio came over. “Other plans notwithstanding, we should change location,” he said. “Tresting told me you were made.” 
“I lost them,” I said. 
“Regardless, now that you are well enough to travel, you should leave Los Angeles. Other plans can wait. Pithica will be able to track you here eventually.” 
I’d been thinking the same thing back when we’d lost our tail after Checker’s place, but now my feelings had snapped into orneriness. “Here’s a thought,” I said. “Let them. We’ll set a trap of our own, figure out a way to fight back.” 
"You got a better idea?" 
I kicked a pile of her laundry into the air. "Whatever. Fine. I'll talk to her some more." 
"You talk to her," Ange said. "You tell her you and your girlfriend are getting out." 
"What?" 
"Shut up, dickhead. You think you're in danger? I'm in just as much danger, Marcus. It's called guilt by association. When you go, I go." She had her jaw thrust out at a mutinous angle. "You and I -- we're together now. You have to understand that." 
We sat down on the bed together. 
"Unless you don't want me," she said, finally, in a small voice. 
"You're kidding me, right?" 
"Do I look like I'm kidding?" 
"There's no way I would voluntarily go without you, Ange. I could never have asked you to come, but I'm ecstatic that you offered." 
She smiled and tossed me my keyboard. 
"Email this Masha creature. Let's see what this chick can do for us." 
I emailed her, encrypting the message, waiting for a reply. Ange nuzzled me a little and I kissed her and we necked. Something about the danger and the pact to go together -- it made me forget the awkwardness of having sex, made me freaking horny as hell. 
“I need to get this boot off, okay?” 
That was easier said than done. It was noisy, too. I was moan- ing along with Wheeze by the time she worked it off. It looked like he had one of those exotic tropical diseases that makes your leg look like it belongs to an elephant. 
“Take these.” She dropped some pills in his palm and opened a bottle of a neon-colored sports drink so he could get them down. 
“Vicodin left over from when I got my wisdom teeth taken out.” 
He swallowed the pills and drank, his teeth clacking against the plastic neck of the bottle. He paused as she took a pair of scis- sors to his grotty sock and peeled it off, then wrapped the ankle with a length of stretchy cloth. “My roommate plays Lacrosse, 
even though she’s a total klutz. We have a ton of these elastic ban- dages.” 
Wheeze had his teeth clamped on his lower lip as his face went white and sweaty. When the wrapping was secured with metal clips he took a deep breath, than swigged down the rest of drink. 
“Glad you found me,” he whispered. 
Did he say "special"? Marcelina said I was . . . like Sarah . . . 
Now his eyes are boring in and I'm thinking of the Chi­nese . . . Am I human, dreaming I'm a butterfly, or am I a butterfly dreaming I'm human? 
As he moves over me, the rest of his butterfly form dis­appears and he's become a lithe jaguar whose lips are touch­ing mine. The sheet over me melts into my skin as the soft spotted fur of his underbelly presses onto me. And his face has turned even more feline and sensuous, with dark eyes that look directly through me. I can feel his whiskers against me as he sniffs down my body,  then explores my groin with his probing tongue. 
Before I realize what's happening, his thighs press against mine and he knowingly insinuates himself into me. It all happens so naturally and effortlessly I scarcely . . . I see only an intense twitch of his animal ears, erect and directed toward me, as he enfolds me completely, his hot male breath urgent. As he grinds his thighs against mine, he emits growls, low in his throat, then nips lightly and lovingly at my cheek, his pale fangs benign and delicious. 
“Yeah. I need everything you can get on the word Pithica.” 
“Spelling?” 
“I’m not sure. There might be some ties to Colombian drug runners. And the authorities might be investigating already.” 
He grunted again. “Two hours.” 
“Got it.” I hung up. Anton was one of several information brokers in the city, and I’d hired him not infrequently over the past couple of years, whenever I wanted to know more than a standard Internet search would give me. If “Pithica” had a paper trail, I was betting he could find it. 
“Come on,” I said to Courtney, shepherding her back to the car. “We’re going to hit rush hour as it is.” 
“Do you have cash, or is your money all in the bank?” I asked Courtney as we inched forward through the eternal parking lot of the 405 freeway, the heat beating down through the windshield and slowly cooking us. The temperature had catapulted up by a full thirty-four degrees Fahrenheit with the rising sun as we finally headed into the city: Los Angeles at its finest. Our current junkpot car didn’t have air conditioning, and the still air and stalled traffic meant even rolling down the windows didn’t help one whit. 
“They were set up,” I told her, stomping around the room softly in my socks, wondering whether Wheeze was still okay and how far he’d gotten away from Minneapolis. 
“Set up by that guy you told me about? Peppy?” 
“His name is Zip. Well, it’s not his real name. It’s the name he was using while he pretended to be a radical. The feds do this all the time, set people up to justify dragnet surveillance.” I real- ized I was starving and reached for a bowl of leftover beans in our dorm-sized refrigerator. I also pulled out a bowl of cooked brown rice and a bottle of hot sauce. 
“No. Seeing Wilson in that photo - I’ve totally lost my appetite. You said you found him a lawyer?” 
I spooned beans on two tortillas. “Yeah. He has a whole legal team.” I scooped up rice and mashed it on top of the beans, squirt- ing on plenty of hot sauce. “The woman who put it together is a really famous civil rights lawyer.” I flashed on that incredibly messy...  up for it as I rolled the tortillas up into fat, squishy bundles, and put them on a plate in the microwave. 
“It means that she’s been there, or that she’s there now,” Lexy went on. “It’s time we found out. Of course, I know how you feel about Dr. Quelton. He’s your sister’s husband, and you didn’t want—” 
“It doesn’t make much difference now,” he said. “If you’ll wait a day or so, she—” 
He turned away abruptly, and took out his cigarette case. 
“What do you mean?” cried Lexy. 
“It won’t be long,” he said quietly. “She—my sister—he says it won’t be more than twenty-four hours, at the most.” 
“Oh, no! It can’t be! Captain Grey, don’t believe him!” 
“I tried not to,” he said. “I—well, we had a bit of a row, and I made him let me bring in another doctor from the village here. He said the same thing.” 
“What did the doctor say it was?” asked Houseman. 
Captain Grey seemed to find some difficulty in lighting his cigarette; but when he had done so, and had drawn in a deep breath, he turned back toward Lexy with a smile that startled her. She had never imagined he could look like...  lighting his dark face with a sort of savage mirth. 
"That applies how?" 
"Manipulation of the shed in that way is mission oriented. The parameter set that drives the programming, the idea that informs the meme, is reset to zero after the task is carried out. Do you understand?" 
He gets it. "It's too time and labor intensive unless you want to accomplish something you couldn't do with normal guns and willing followers. Like an assassination of a foreign official, or the infiltration of a nuclear complex. Something big." 
"Except that even to do that, you have to provide a prohibitive amount of guidance. You have to know exactly what you're making the shed do, because the shed despises you. It does not want to serve your human purposes. In fact, it wants to destroy you for daring to have disturbed it. To command the shed is a nightmare of micromanagement wherein even the smallest mistake generates unforeseen disasters, because it wants to be free. 
"That is the hidden concept in all the ancient texts, this idea of disturbance. To call the shed, you disturb it from something else that it was doing. You remove it from an environment that is somehow essential to its nature and pleasure, and drag it into corporeal activity. " 
They moved into one of the quiet side pews, where Hannah and her husband and John joined them. From time to time some straggling acquaintance or old schoolmate would come up to congratulate Rebecca and ask why she had hidden herself in a corner. Then some member of the class would call to her excitedly, reminding her not to be late at the picnic luncheon, or begging her to be early at the class party in the evening. All this had an air of unreality to Rebecca. In the midst of the happy excitement of the last two days, when "blushing honors" had been falling thick upon her, and behind the delicious exaltation of the morning, had been the feeling that the condition was a transient one, and that the burden, the struggle, the anxiety, would soon loom again on the horizon. She longed to steal away into the woods with dear old John, grown so manly and handsome, and get some comfort from him. 
Meantime Adam Ladd and Mr. Cobb had been having an animated conversation. 
"I s'pose up to Boston, girls like that one are as thick as blackb'ries?" uncle Jerry said, jerking his head interrogatively in Rebecca's direction. 
"You will take me to Maplewood, won't you, Mr. Cobb?" begged Rebecca piteously. 
"Don't you fret a mite," he answered, with a crafty little notion at the back of his mind; "I'll see the lady passenger through somehow. Now take a bite o' somethin' to eat, child. Spread some o' that tomato preserve on your bread; draw up to the table. How'd you like to set in mother's place an' pour me out another cup o' hot tea?" 
Mr. Jeremiah Cobb's mental machinery was simple, and did not move very smoothly save when propelled by his affection or sympathy. In the present case these were both employed to his advantage, and mourning his stupidity and praying for some flash of inspiration to light his path, he blundered along, trusting to Providence. 
Rebecca, comforted by the old man's tone, and timidly enjoying the dignity of sitting in Mrs. Cobb's seat and lifting the blue china teapot, smiled faintly, smoothed her hair, and dried her eyes. 
"I suppose your mother'll be turrible glad to see you back again?" queried Mr. Cobb. 
That was the moment that I ceased to be sentimental about computers and became, instead, sentimental about the human fucking race. Whatever BIGMAC was becoming, it was weirder than any of the self-perpetuating, self-reproducing parasites we'd created: limited liability corporations, autonomous malware, viral videos. BIGMAC was cool and tragic in the lab, but he was scary as hell in the world. 
And he was listening in . 
I didn't say a word. Didn't even bother to turn off my phone. I just ran , ran as hard as I could, ran as only a terrified man could, rebounding off of yurts and even scrambling over a few, sliding down on my ass as I pelted for the power substation. It was only when I reached it that I realized I didn't have access to it anymore. Johanna was right behind me, though, and she seemed to understand what I was doing. She coughed into the door-lock and we both looked at each other with terrified eyes, breathing gasps into each others' faces, while we waited for the door to open. 
Hi Mom! 
Well, I didn't go to work yesterday. Instead, I got out of bed, sat on the sofa in my shorts, and turned on the movies. My watch got loud and angry, so I stuck it underneath my pillow. Then, messages started appearing on my TV. I ignored them. 
Someone knocked on my door after lunch, but I was watching a good part in Wall Street, so I didn't answer it. 
I fell asleep after Wall Street, and woke up after 18h, because someone was really giving my door a pounding. 
I opened the door, not caring that I was wearing my shorts. It was Rhindquist. He looked sad, and beaten. You know what he did? He gave me a hug! Boy, that was weird. 
He came in and sat on the sofa. I sat next to him. He didn't say anything, just picked up the remote and put on a funny movie, Blazing Saddles. When that was over, he put on The Princess Bride. I never laughed so much! 
We watched movies all night. They were all funny. They took my mind off things. We both fell asleep, sitting on the sofa, but when I woke up, I was in bed, and Rhindquist had put the blanket over me. He was asleep on the sofa. His phone was on the TV, and its batteries were on the floor. 
The thought of my sweet Brookside Farm. 
School is pretty good. The Teacher can answer more questions than the Temperance one but not so many as I can ask. I am smarter than all the girls but one but not so smart as two boys. Emma Jane can add and subtract in her head like a streek of lightning and knows the speling book right through but has no thoughts of any kind. She is in the Third Reader but does not like stories in books. I am in the Sixth Reader but just because I cannot say the seven multiplication Table Miss Dearborn threttens to put me in the baby primer class with Elijah and Elisha Simpson little twins. 
Sore is my heart and bent my stubborn pride, 
With Lijah and with Lisha am I tied, 
My soul recoyles like Cora Doctor's Wife, 
Like her I feer I cannot bare this life. 
I am going to try for the speling prize but fear I cannot get it. I would not care but wrong speling looks dreadful in poetry. Last Sunday when I found seraphim in the dictionary I was ashamed I had made it serrafim but seraphim is not a word you can guess at like another long one outlandish in this letter which spells itself. Miss Dearborn says use the words you CAN spell and if you cant spell seraphim make angel do but angels are not just the same as seraphims. Seraphims are brighter whiter and have bigger wings and I think are older and longer dead than angels which are just freshly dead and after a long time in heaven around the great white throne grow to be seraphims. 
“It’s this,” he said again. “It’s about my sister.” 
“The sister you’ve never seen?” 
The sensation of dread had gone, and she felt only the liveliest interest. She wanted very much to hear about Captain Grey’s sister. 
“It wasn’t quite true to say I’d never seen her,” he explained, in his painstaking way. “I have, you know; but not since I was six years old and she was a baby. Our mother died when Muriel was born, out in India. An aunt took the poor little kid to the States with her, and I stayed out there with my father.” 
He drew on his cigarette for a minute. 
“She’s twenty-one now,” he said. “Last picture I had of her was when she was fourteen or so. A pretty kid—a bit more than pretty—what you’d call lovely.” 
He was silent for a little, staring into the fire. 
“When I was at school in England, it was arranged that she was to come over; but she didn’t, and we’ve never met again. Twenty-one years—it’s a long time.” 
“Yes, it is,” said Lexy gently, for something in his voice touched her. 
"You're not putting me on. Amazing. Patricia Lourdes McCavity, you have felled an empire and you are setting yourself up to fell another -- and it's one that I'm pretty heavily invested in, both professionally and financially." 
"Come on," she said. "I'm good, but I'm not superwoman. I was part of a team." 
"I've read your briefs. Position papers. Opinions. Speeches. Hell, your press-releases. They were the most cogent, convincing explanations for intellectual property reform I'd ever read. You weren't the judge, but you were his clerk. You weren't the committee chairman, but you were her head staffer. Taco Bell underestimated you. Coke...  you. Disney underestimated you. Vivendi and Sony underestimated you. Now you're running your own organization, and it's pointed at me, and I'm scared shitless, you want to know the truth. I'm not underestimating you." He'd drawn his dark eyebrows together while he spoke, and lowered his head, so that he was looking up at her from under his brow, looking intense as the day they'd met, when he was delivering a brilliant lecture on ant-colony optimization to a large lay audience at the law-school, fielding the Q&A with such convulsive humor and scalding lucidity that he'd melted her heart. 
And now she was beginning to think. 
Twilight had come early on this rainy day, and it was almost dark before they reached the end of the lane. Lexy slackened her pace. Then, as they came to the corner of the highway, she stopped and laid her hand on her companion’s sleeve. 
“Captain Grey!” she said. 
He looked down at her, but it was too dark to see what expression there was on her pale face. He was vastly relieved, however, by the steadiness of her voice. 
“Captain Grey!” she said again. “If I told you something—something very important—would you believe me?” 
“Yes, yes, of course,” he answered hastily. “Of course, I would always believe you; but I wish you wouldn’t try to talk about anything important just now, you know. Let’s wait a bit, eh?” 
Lexy smiled to herself in the dark—a smile of extraordinary bitterness. He wouldn’t believe her if she told him about Caroline. He would think she was hysterical. She saw quite plainly that by this strange outburst she had lost his confidence. 
We both thought there were way too many monuments and places named after Henry Hastings Sibley, so I chose that county deliberately. I might have been a little heavy-handed when I added the watchdog stuff, but if she picked up on my Sibley clue, she probably also realized I was doing something risky, and I needed a way to tell her I would be careful. 
“That sound nice,” she said at last, as if it didn’t sound nice at all. 
“I know it’s kind of unplanned, but I really want to hang out with my friend. Is it okay?” 
“I guess so. Call if you need anything.” 
“Okay. Say hi to Novak for me.” 
“Take care of yourself,” Monica said. “I love you.” 
“Love you, too,” I replied, wondering if I’d ever said that to her out loud before. 
Meanwhile Nikko was trying to get hold of his parents, but he hung up twice without leaving messages and looked frustrated. 
Then something dawned. His face is like a billboard sometimes, 
only not so big and ugly. “So, my dad’s in court today, and I forgot my mom’s out of town on a business trip. But I have a better idea. 
"Missy, it was a high official at that very establishment 'suggested' I fly you up there. Why the hell else would I do it, for chrissake? You know I'm not a citizen of this fun house. Said party noted that if I didn't, he could make a few phone calls about my residency status, my pilot's license . . . Let's just say it was an offer I didn't see fit to take issue with." 
"Oh, my God." I felt like a knife had just plunged into my back. "Was his name Barry Morton? Please tell me." 
"Taking the Fifth on that one," he said coughing again. "But you've got primal instincts." 
I heard a noise outside and sank lower in the chair. What was I going to do now? 
"Listen, do you have any idea where Steve is? They're looking—" 
"No shit, Madame Sherlock. I had a long, deeply unin­spiring interrogation by a couple of upscale assholes who showed up here in an Army Jeep. They wanted to know where the fuck he was, when I'd supped with him last. Let me inform you, love, you got my old heartstrings buddy in some decided doo-doo." 
All this had been half an hour ago, and the sun, the heat, the dust, the contemplation of errands to be done in the great metropolis of Milltown, had lulled Mr. Cobb's never active mind into complete oblivion as to his promise of keeping an eye on Rebecca. 
Suddenly he heard a small voice above the rattle and rumble of the wheels and the creaking of the harness. At first he thought it was a cricket, a tree toad, or a bird, but having determined the direction from which it came, he turned his head over his shoulder and saw a small shape hanging as far out of the window as safety would allow. A long black braid of hair swung with the motion of the coach; the child held her hat in one hand and with the other made ineffectual attempts to stab the driver with her microscopic sunshade. 
"Please let me speak!" she called. 
Mr. Cobb drew up the horses obediently. 
"Does it cost any more to ride up there with you?" she asked. "It's so slippery and shiny down here, and the stage is so much too big for me, that I rattle round in it till I'm 'most black and blue. And the windows are so small I can only see pieces of things, and I've 'most broken my neck stretching round to find out whether my trunk has fallen off the back. It's my mother's trunk, and she's very choice of it." 
“You are discharged,” interrupted Mrs. Enderby, “because I do not like to have my daughter’s companion running into the park to meet a young man.” 
“I see!” said Lexy again. 
And nothing more. All the warmth of her anger had gone, and in its place had come an overwhelming depression. For all her sturdiness and courage, she was young and generous and sensitive, and those words of Mrs. Enderby’s hurt her cruelly. 
She sat very still, looking out of the window. They had left the city now, and were on the Boston road. It was a sweet, fresh April day, and under a bright and windy sky the countryside was showing the first soft green of spring. 
Lexy remembered. She remembered the things she had so valiantly tried to forget—the dear, happy days that were past, spring days like this, in her own home, with her mother and father; early morning rides on her little black mare, and coming home to the old house, to the people who loved her; her father’s laugh, her mother’s wonderful smile, the friendly faces of the servants. 
"Please leave it off," said a spacey female voice. "It's nice when it's dark." 
As my eyes became accustomed to the eerie half-light, I finally made out a figure. It was a short woman, childlike but probably mid-twenties. 
"What are you doing in here?" 
"I just wanted to, like, be with you." She'd done her dark hair in multiple braids, with a red glass bead at the end of each. "You're special. We all know it. That's why he brought you over here, to this building. To be near them." 
"What do you mean, 'special'?" I asked, heading for the closet and my black jeans. Then I wondered. Near who? 
Now she was reaching into a fanny pack she had around her waist and taking out a baggie filled with plastic vials. "These are herbs I've started growing here. I picked them for you. If you'll—" 
"Slow down," I said, lifting my jeans off the hanger and starting to struggle into them. Finally I took the baggie, moved to the window, and tilted up the blind. Inside it were clear plastic medicine bottles containing various gray and green powders and flakes. 
You see, I don't delete stuff. Why would I? Storage is cheap, and you never know when you're going to want to go back to that stuff. Especially the stupid stuff. You know that feeling you get sometimes where you're sitting on the subway and there's no one to talk to and you suddenly remember some bitter fight you had, some terrible thing you said? Well, it's usually never as bad as you remember. Being able to go back and see it again is a great way to remind yourself that you're not as horrible a person as you think you are. Darryl and I have gotten over more fights that way than I can count. 
And even that's not it. I know my phone is private. I know my memory sticks are private. That's because of cryptography -- message scrambling. The math behind crypto is good and solid, and you and me get access to the same crypto that banks and the National Security Agency use. There's only one kind of crypto that anyone uses: crypto that's public, open and can be deployed by anyone. That's how you know it works. 
She forgot everything else, then, except this tormented and suffering human being who had turned to her for comfort. She pushed him gently down into a chair, and seated herself on the arm of it. She took both his hands and patted them, while she racked her brain for the right thing to say. 
“We’ll do something !” she said. “There’s no reason to be in despair. That young country doctor was probably entirely under the influence of Dr. Quelton. We’ll get some one else. We’ll telephone to one of the big hospitals in New York and find out who’s the very best man, and we’ll get him out here. Mr. Houseman will ring up—” 
But Mr. Houseman had disappeared. Worse still, Mrs. Royce’s telephone was out of order. 
“Never mind!” said Lexy. “We’ll have a nice hot cup of tea, and then we’ll go to the grocery store. There’s a telephone there.” 
She made the captain drink his tea and eat a little. Then she ran upstairs for her hat; and she was very angry at Charles Houseman for running away. 
They set off together down the village street. There was no one about at that hour. All Wyngate was partaking of its Sunday night supper within doors, and one or two of the little wooden houses showed lights in the front windows; but for the most part life was concentrated in the kitchen. 
just beginning to sweat and lifting his knees high with each step so the morass of the carpet won't establish a suction lock on his boots and strand him, paralyzed, out in the open. 
Then there's the knottier problem of which door to hammer at. The map directs him only to the primary entrance, which appears dramatically too public upon actual inspection. It's a thing of chrome and technological gadgetry, with a secure lock keypad entry system. There's a high-res flatscreen embedded in wall to the left. At the moment it's projecting a vid image of the system messenger in kako-daimon mode— meaning that the door is locked and the messaging software routed to a recording device. There's either nobody home, or whoever happens to be inside isn't interested in talking to anyone not already on their side of the security. 
Ray doesn't find this surprising given the circumstances, nor did he imagine that given the encounter with the Mr. Whiston of the household this morning that he'd have much luck getting at Emma via the front door in the first place. But with three other doors to choose from, knocking on the wrong one would be a tactical error. 
I stopped at the passion in his voice. 
It was true that Arthur had been trying, for upwards of a year, to bash it through my head that I had backup now. That I could ask people for help, if I needed or wanted it. 
When he said it, it always seemed to make sense. In the moment, I either didn’t think of it or found a good reason to go it alone. After all, I always had sound logical reasons for what I did, didn’t I? 
Didn’t I? 
Like now. Arthur was busy following his other lead, and we’d find his friend faster if we kept working in parallel. Besides, it would take him ages to get out here—I wasn’t just being petty. I wasn’t. 
And even if I weren’t hours east of the city, who else was I going to call? I knew a Mob sniper who still claimed he owed me eighty percent of a favor, but I didn’t trust him further than a nickel’s worth, not the least of which because his boss had been trying to freeze me out of the underground for a year now. I knew a forger who hadn’t sold me out when he’d had the chance, but that didn’t change the fact that he was a forger, not someone I could call into a firefight even if I’d wanted to. To be perfectly honest, the only person I truly trusted to be skilled enough to have my back was halfway around the world bashing corrupted warlords’ heads in, and that was even farther than Pasadena. 
Some of the threads began to blacken against the ember, crinkling into ash...and between one moment and the next a little flame burst up. 
The flame swallowed the ball of thread and licked at the paper cupping it, and I quickly held other folds of crumpled pages around it until their edges flared, too. Then I poked the pieces of burning paper into each corner of the kindling pile. I didn’t need to check my watch again. I’d been tracking the time closely, and we were just over a minute before the hour—right on time. 
I moved over to the side of the door, my table-leg club at the ready. Halliday had crouched down by the food slot, her jaw clenched. Across the room, the flames darted upward from the engulfed papers, limning the wood. 
The hour struck. The wood began to catch, the stench of burning varnish making the smoke bitter. The tower of crumpled paper was quickly dwindling and collapsing beneath. 
Smoke had started to roll against the ceiling and then haze down through our precious breathing space. Halliday coughed. My eyes were watering; I blinked stubbornly, wrapping my arm across my mouth and breathing through my sleeve. 
"I think it would be all right to let Rebecca have one pink and one blue gingham," said Jane. "A child gets tired of sewing on one color. It's only natural she should long for a change; besides she'd look like a charity child always wearing the same brown with a white apron. And it's dreadful unbecoming to her!" 
"'Handsome is as handsome does,' say I. Rebecca never'll come to grief along of her beauty, that's certain, and there's no use in humoring her to think about her looks. I believe she's vain as a peacock now, without anything to be vain of." 
"She's young and attracted to bright things—that's all. I remember well enough how I felt at her age." 
"You was considerable of a fool at her age, Jane." 
"Yes, I was, thank the Lord! I only wish I'd known how to take a little of my foolishness along with me, as some folks do, to brighten my declining years." 
There finally was a pink gingham, and when it was nicely finished, aunt Jane gave Rebecca a delightful surprise. She showed her how to make a pretty trimming of narrow white linen tape, by folding it in pointed shapes and sewing it down very flat with neat little stitches. 
> Governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed, that whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it, and to institute new government, laying its foundation on such principles, and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness. 
> I didn't write that, but I believe it. The DHS does not govern with my consent. 
> Thank you! 
I'd written this the day before, bouncing drafts back and forth with Ange. Pasting it in only took a second, though it took everyone in the game a moment to read it. A lot of the Xnetters cheered, big showy pirate "Hurrah"s with raised sabers and pet parrots squawking and flying overhead. 
Gradually, the journalists digested it too. The chat was running past fast, so fast you could barely read it, lots of Xnetters saying things like "Right on" and "America, love it or leave it" and "DHS go home" and "America out of San Francisco," all slogans that had been big on the Xnet blogosphere. 
That must have been tough. You should have told me.” 
“Why? There wasn’t anything you could have done.” 
“Still, I should know if you’re having a hard time. You keep too much to yourself.” 
“I’m discreet, that’s all. Discretion is a good thing.” 
She chuckled softly. “I’m not sure discretion is one of your strong points. But you never have to be discreet with me. Okay?” 
“Yeah, okay.” 
“It sounds as if Zip is an incredibly manipulative person.” 
“He totally is. It’s like he could control Wilson’s mind.” 
She gave me another sideways hug. “Don’t blame your brother for falling for it. And for sure, don’t blame yourself.” 
It was weird how she could do that, know exactly what I was thinking. I sat up, suddenly feeling as if leaning my head against her shoulder let my thoughts leak out of my right ear so they could travel up her neck straight to her brain. There were a lot of things I didn’t want her to know about, so I would have to limit how often I did that. “The burritos are ready,” I said to change the subject. 
Then it came back: 4-MAYAN, the six-digit number they used in Guatemala City. Call the sleazebag and ask him who can get me out of here. He's supposed to know everybody. 
Dawn was bringing more and more forest-morning songs through the thin slats of the windows. I walked over and pushed them open, running my fingers out into the air. It felt cool, the touch of freedom, and I thought for a moment about bursting through to escape. Just get Sarah now. 
The phone, however, just rang and rang and rang. 
Come on. Damn. 
It rang and rang some more. Then finally— "Who the fuck is this? We don't open till nine." 
The first sound of his voice brought a wave of relief, but then his cocky attitude made me livid all over again. 
"It's Morgan James, you shit. Why did you leave me stranded up here? You have no idea what—" 
"Oh, you . . ." He paused for a cigarette cough. "You made me walk all the way downstairs just to bust my chops. What the—?" 
"Talk to me, you prick." I still intended to strangle him. "I need your help. You owe me. You have no idea what—" 
Next to the bed was a violin case and three books about Indian ragas. What was that about? somebody might wonder. Some kind of Indian music nut? I was, albeit a very mini­mally talented nut. 
The kitchen was the New York efficiency kind painted a glossy tan, the color of aerosol olive oil. The cabinets con­tained mostly packages of pasta,...  even any real food. I live on deli takeout these days. An inventory of my fridge at this moment would clock two cartons of "fresh squeezed" orange juice, a half quart...  containers of wilting veggies from the corner salad bar, and three bottles of New York seltzer. That was it. 
God help me, I thought, my mind-state turning even more morose. This is my life. I had become that retrograde Woman of the Nineties: works ninety hours a week, makes ninety thou a year, weighs ninety pounds, and...  Fucking are provinces in northern China. Well, the ninety-pounds part of that obscene quip didn't fit—and it wasn't the nineties anymore, anyway. 
In any case, was my apartment a place to raise a child? No earthly way. Like Carly, I'd have to spring for some decent space, preferably with a washing machine. . . . 
"Oh, I'm so sorry!" she faltered. "I was trimming the schoolroom, and got belated, and ran all the way home. It was hard getting into my dress alone, and I hadn't time to eat but a mouthful, and just at the last minute, when I honestly—HONESTLY—would have thought about clearing away and locking up, I looked at the clock and knew I could hardly get back to school in time to form in the line; and I thought how dreadful it would be to go in late and get my first black mark on a Friday afternoon, with the minister's wife and the doctor's wife and the school committee all there!" 
"Don't wail and carry on now; it's no good...  "An ounce of good behavior is worth a pound of repentance. Instead of tryin' to see how little trouble you can make in a house that ain't your own home, it seems as if you tried to see how much you could put us out. Take that rose out o' your dress and let me see the spot it's made on your yoke, an' the rusty holes where the wet pin went in. No, it ain't; but it's more by luck than forethought. I ain't got any patience with your flowers and frizzled-out hair and furbelows an' airs an' graces, for all the world like your Miss-Nancy father." 
She helped him to his feet. "You don't seem like a snitch, Lawrence. 
He took a second to parse this out. "I don't work for the Securitat," he said. It seemed like the best way to answer. 
She snorted. "That's not what we hear. Come on, they're going to start shouting at us if we don't move." 
They walked the rest of the way to an emergency staircase together, and emerged out of a sidewalk grating, blinking in the remains of the autumn sunlight, a bloody color on the glass of the highrises. She looked at him and made a face. "You're filthy, Lawrence." She thumped at his sleeves and great dirty clouds rose off them. He looked down at the knees of his pants and saw that they were hung with boogers of dust. 
The New Yorkers who streamed past them ducked to avoid the dirty clouds. "Where can I clean up?" he said. 
"Where are you staying?" 
"I was thinking I'd see about getting a room at the Y or a backpacker's hostel, somewhere to stay until I'm done." 
"Done?" 
"I'm on a complicated errand. Trying to locate someone who used to be in the Order." 
"Screw you!" I heard Van yell behind me. "Pervert! Get your hands off of me!" 
I strained around against the crowd and saw Van looking with disgust at an older guy in a nice suit who was kind of smirking at her. She was digging in her purse and I knew what she was digging for. 
"Don't mace him!" I shouted over the din. "You'll get us all too." 
At the mention of the word mace, the guy looked scared and kind of melted back, though the crowd kept him moving forward. Up ahead, I saw someone, a middle-aged lady in a hippie dress, falter and fall. She screamed as she went down, and I saw her thrashing to get up, but she couldn't, the crowd's pressure was too strong. As I neared her, I bent to help her up, and was nearly knocked over her. I ended up stepping on her stomach as the crowd pushed me past her, but by then I don't think she was feeling anything. 
I was as scared as I'd ever been. There was screaming everywhere now, and more bodies on the floor, and the press from behind was as relentless as a bulldozer. It was all I could do to keep on my feet. 
“It’s here somewhere,” said the old man. He started poking through the piles. 
I heaved a sigh and went to help, digging through clouds of old receipts and moving crusty paint cans to search for anything vaguely mathematical-looking, and trying not to breathe through my nose. This place was probably a health hazard—one that needed a card catalogue to find anything. 
Forty-three minutes later, the old man was still mumbling, “I know it’s here somewhere...my eyes aren’t what they once were...” and I was starting to wonder if he’d put me on. Still, there was no way I was going to leave. This was the closest thing to a lead we’d had on this, and if I had to stay here for a week and dig through every last stale piece of trash in the place, I was going to do it. 
Then I picked up a copy of National Geographic from the 1970s and saw something underneath. 
The pages were crumpled up and crammed against an old-school boom box. I picked them up and smoothed them out. I recognized Martinez’s dense script from the note she’d left for Halliday. 
Rebecca sat down heavily in her chair as she heard the list of her transgressions. How could she have been so careless? The tears began to flow now as she attempted to explain sins that never could be explained or justified. 
"Oh, I'm so sorry!" she faltered. "I was trimming the schoolroom, and got belated, and ran all the way home. It was hard getting into my dress alone, and I hadn't time to eat but a mouthful, and just at the last minute, when I honestly—HONESTLY—would have thought about clearing away and locking up, I looked at the clock and knew I could hardly get back to school in time to form in the line; and I thought how dreadful it would be to go in late and get my first black mark on a Friday afternoon, with the minister's wife and the doctor's wife and the school committee all there!" 
"Don't wail and carry on now; it's no good...  "An ounce of good behavior is worth a pound of repentance. Instead of tryin' to see how little trouble you can make in a house that ain't your own home, it seems as if you tried to see how much you could put us out. Take that rose out o' your dress and let me see the spot it's made on your yoke, an' the rusty holes where the wet pin went in. No, it ain't; but it's more by luck than forethought. I ain't got any patience with your flowers and frizzled-out hair and furbelows an' airs an' graces, for all the world like your Miss-Nancy father." 
I started to reply by copying and pasting my previous email, which had given him instructions on where to meet me the next day after Martinez was safely tucked away—in other words, where I would put him down for good—when I suddenly felt like I’d plowed face-first into a brick wall. 
I scrolled up, the blood rushing in my ears. 
You must know my experience in this matter will be extremely vital in dealing with this mathematician, but I still require some sort of tangible guarantee you’ll be bringing her directly to me... 
Her. He’d said “her.” 
Fuck. Oh, Jesus, fuck. 
Women in mathematics were the minority, and I’d been careful never to use a pronoun so as not to give him any clue. The Lancer knew we were going after Rita Martinez. 
How had he figured it out? Only Arthur, Checker, Halliday, and I knew Martinez was involved at all. And Zhang, but he wouldn’t have told anyone. 
Could the Lancer have made a wild guess based on Martinez’s and Halliday’s friendship, and the fact that they were both in the same subfield? No, that was ridiculous; this problem had a one-in-infinity chance of being solved by anyone, and he would know that. Absent other information, it would be far more likely someone halfway around the world had solved it and was simply keeping an eye on how the U.S. government was responding to a similar proof here in California. 
Seeing Lexy still frankly bewildered, Mrs. Enderby lost her patience. 
“The man!” she said. “Who is the man?” 
“I never heard Caroline speak of any man,” said Lexy. 
She spoke firmly enough, and she was telling the truth; but she remembered that telephone call, and the memory brought a faint flush into her cheeks. Mrs. Enderby did not fail to notice it. 
“Listen!” she said. “There is one thing you can do—only one thing. You can hold your tongue. Tell no one. Let no one know that Caroline is not here. You understand?” 
“But aren’t you going to—” 
“I am going to do nothing. You understand—nothing. There is to be no scandal in my house.” 
“But, Mrs. Enderby!” 
“Hush! No one must know of this. To-morrow morning I shall have a letter from Caroline.” 
“Oh!” said Lexy, with a sigh of genuine relief. “Oh, then you know where she’s gone!” 
“I?” replied Mrs. Enderby. “I know nothing. This has come to me from a clear sky. I have always tried to safeguard my child. I—” 
She paused for a moment, and for the first time Lexy pitied her. 
Miss Dearborn was delighted. "I propose we give Rebecca a good hand-clapping for such a beautiful picture—one that the whole school may well be proud of!" 
The scholars clapped heartily, and Dick Carter, waving his hand, gave a rousing cheer. 
Rebecca's heart leaped for joy, and to her confusion she felt the tears rising in her eyes. She could hardly see the way back to her seat, for in her ignorant lonely little life she had never been singled out for applause, never lauded, nor crowned, as in this wonderful, dazzling moment. 
If "nobleness enkindleth nobleness," so does enthusiasm beget enthusiasm, and so do wit and talent enkindle wit and talent. Alice Robinson proposed that the school should sing Three Cheers for the Red, White, and Blue! and when they came to the chorus, all point to Rebecca's flag. Dick Carter suggested that Living Perkins and Rebecca Randall should sign their names to their pictures, so that the visitors would know who drew them. Huldah Meserve asked permission to cover the largest holes in the plastered walls with boughs and fill the water pail with wild flowers. Rebecca's mood was above and beyond all practical details. She sat silent, her heart so full of grateful joy that she could hardly remember the words of her dialogue. At recess she bore herself modestly, notwithstanding her great triumph, while in the general atmosphere of good will the Smellie-Randall hatchet was buried and Minnie gathered maple boughs and covered the ugly stove with them, under Rebecca's direction. 
“I do not mean it as an insult.” 
“Well, maybe I’m taking it as one!” I snapped. “I’m allowed to have a gut instinct about people, you know!” 
“Cas, you detest reliance on gut instinct.” 
“And maybe you don’t know everything about how I work!” My voice was rising, a biting fury building in me by the second. “It’s such a bad thing not to suspect an innocent woman? Oh, right, I forgot— you wouldn’t know anything about valuing other human beings—” 
“This isn’t like you, either,” Rio observed calmly. “Something’s affecting you.” 
“Something’s affecting me?” I cried incredulously. “Well, yes, genius, things affect me! You think you’re such an expert on emotion all of a sudden? You? Did you ever think that maybe I’m reacting like a normal human person?” 
“Cas—” Rio tried to cut in, but I wasn’t having any of it. 
“The poor woman has done nothing but care about her little sister, and she’s being dragged into this whole violent mess with drug dealers and cops, and now we find out someone very dangerous called her and lied to her, and you want to dump it all on her? Maybe while we’re doing that, the people we should have been investigating will take their sweet time to come kill her and Courtney!” 
This is all embarrassing, vaguely disconcerting, like talking about masturbation. 
But Becker waggles his hand impatiently in a gesture of invitation. Bring it on. "Tell me." 
Ray grins at him, wearily, warily, trying very hard to give the impression of a man with a firm and complete grasp on his sanity. "What do you know about the Gnostics, Chief Becker?" 
"What should I know about them?"  "Nothing, actually. At least not if the founders and early practitioners of Christianity had had their way. It was one of the first big heresies. It's also the only way we know anything about the shed." 
Becker grunts. "Then you'd better start from the beginning." 
From the very beginning, Ray thinks, farther back than Becker even imagines. Before the earth was without form and void and darkness gathered upon the face of the deep. How do you even begin to explain such things? So much of it he hasn't thought about in years, so many angles and bits of information. It's hard to keep straight, even for a man who might want to. 
Without one backward glance she set off at a furious pace, splashing through the puddles, almost running. Captain Grey kept easily by her side with his long, lithe stride. Now and then he spoke to her, but she could not trust herself to answer just yet. The storm within her was subsiding. From time to time a sob broke from her, but the tears had stopped. 
And now she was beginning to think. 
Twilight had come early on this rainy day, and it was almost dark before they reached the end of the lane. Lexy slackened her pace. Then, as they came to the corner of the highway, she stopped and laid her hand on her companion’s sleeve. 
“Captain Grey!” she said. 
He looked down at her, but it was too dark to see what expression there was on her pale face. He was vastly relieved, however, by the steadiness of her voice. 
“Captain Grey!” she said again. “If I told you something—something very important—would you believe me?” 
“Yes, yes, of course,” he answered hastily. “Of course, I would always believe you; but I wish you wouldn’t try to talk about anything important just now, you know. Let’s wait a bit, eh?” 
"Why, what's the matter with him? Gittin' lazy, ain't he? How 's John turnin' out?" 
"He's going to be the best of us all." 
"I hope you don't slight things in the kitchen because I ain't there. Do...  it upside down on the winder-sill?" 
"Yes, aunt Miranda." 
"It's always 'yes' with you, and 'yes' with Jane," groaned Miranda, trying to move her stiffened body; "but all the time I lay here knowin' there's things done the way I don't like 'em." 
There was a long pause, during which Rebecca sat down by the bedside and timidly touched her aunt's hand, her heart swelling with tender pity at the gaunt face and closed eyes. 
"I was dreadful ashamed to have you graduate in cheesecloth, Rebecca, but I couldn't help it no-how. You'll hear the reason some time, and know I tried to make it up to ye. I'm afraid you was a laughin'-stock!" 
"No," Rebecca answered. "Ever so many people said our dresses were the very prettiest; they looked like soft lace. You're not to be anxious about anything. Here I am all grown up and graduated,—number three in a class of twenty-two, aunt Miranda,—and good positions offered me already. Look at me, big and strong and young, all ready to go into the world and show what you and aunt Jane have done for me. If you want me near, I'll take the Edgewood school, so that I can be here nights and Sundays to help; and if you get better, then I'll go to Augusta,—for that's a hundred dollars more, with music lessons and other things beside." 
Checker yelled something inarticulate and possessive. He started flailing around in the grayness, trying to get his laptops restarted. Rio disappeared from my side as if he had been teleported. 
I raced back outside, my foot hitting a windowsill to gain the roof in one bound. Rio was already crouched on the shingles beside a collection of armaments, peering through a scope to scan the valley. 
“We’re not alone,” he said. 
At first I thought he meant they had found us—I scanned the landscape, the empty desert snapping into a sharp relief of mathematical interactions—before I realized Rio wasn’t reacting as if to an offensive. “What do you mean?” 
He lowered the scope and handed it to me, pointing toward the south. “Pithica didn’t locate us. This attack is widespread.” 
It took me a minute, but I found the gas station and small cluster of buildings just visible in the direction Rio had indicated, tiny even through the scope. People were standing around outside, milling in a way that was not quite normal, some talking, some gesticulating broadly at each other. The twilight was deep enough that some lights should have been on, but everything was dark. 
"No, but I've seen other colonies." 
Emma sits up sharply, her features instantly animated. "Then you should let me show you about when we arrive, yes? At least Blackheath Grange. We could discover it together." 
Paraclete will take at least two weeks to take on new stock and fuel, process outgoing passengers and perform the million other numbing tasks required to hurtle her safely back to Alamai Plantation. "If there's time," Ray concedes. "There'll be a ton of things for me to do during docking protocol." 
"But the captain always lets the crew shuttle down to the city for a little while. Always!" 
"I'm sure he will, but who knows when that will be? You might be otherwise occupied by the time I'm free."  She makes snorting noise, as though he's the one who has insulted her this time. "I'll lock myself in my tower until you send me word. That way we can discover the Grange together. " 
"Now you're being facetious." 
"I'm not!" 
"You won't lock yourself in a tower. " 
She points an accusatory finger at him. "You don't think I have a tower, do you?" 
With all the crap with the Xnet and Ange and the DHS, I'd almost forgotten he existed. He'd become a ghost, like an old friend who'd moved away or gone on an exchange program. All that time, they'd been questioning him, demanding that he rat me out, explain the Xnet, the jammers. He'd been on Treasure Island, the abandoned military base that was halfway along the demolished span of the Bay Bridge. He'd been so close I could have swam to him. 
I put the lighter down and re-read the note. By the time it was done, I was weeping, sobbing. It all came back to me, the lady with the severe haircut and the questions she'd asked and the reek of piss and the stiffness of my pants as the urine dried them into coarse canvas. 
"Marcus?" 
My door was ajar and my mother was standing in it, watching me with a worried look. How long had she been there? 
I armed the tears away from my face and snorted up the snot. "Mom," I said. "Hi." 
She came into my room and hugged me. "What is it? Do you need to talk?" 
"Just a little," she confessed. "But vacation comes soon, you know." 
"And are you going to have a good rest and try to recover your dimples? They are really worth preserving." 
A shadow crept over Rebecca's face and her eyes suffused. "Don't be kind, Mr. Aladdin, I can't bear it;—it's—it's not one of my dimply days!" and she ran in at the seminary gate, and disappeared with a farewell wave of her hand. 
Adam Ladd wended his way to the principal's office in a thoughtful mood. He had come to Wareham to unfold a plan that he had been considering for several days. This year was the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the Wareham schools, and he meant to tell Mr. Morrison that in addition to his gift of a hundred volumes to the reference library, he intended to celebrate it by offering prizes in English composition, a subject in which he was much interested. He wished the boys and girls of the two upper classes to compete; the award to be made to the writers of the two best essays. As to the nature of the prizes he had not quite made up his mind, but they would be substantial ones, either of money or of books. 
And he was gone, a wisp of white moving out the doorway. It was only then that I realized I'd again been too preoccupied to ask him about Kevin and Rachel, the beautiful siblings born six months apart. Instead all I had left was a memory of those penetrating eyes. And the power, the absolute power. 
A fter giving me a small bag with two bottles, Ramala led me out, and I discovered I really had been in a different building, the one situated across the long-term parking lot and all but hidden in the trees. It was new, one-story, and probably larger than it appeared from the front. Again I won­dered what went on in there, since it seemed so empty. 
Check it out and soon, I told myself as I slipped my key into the ignition. You've got to find out a lot more about this place. 
On the drive back to the city, my main thought was that I'd lost a day of my life. It'd just sort of slipped away. But that wasn't all. I also began to meditate on the fact that Alex Goddard could have an immense influence over my body (or was it my mind?) with a simple touch. Give him his due, he could definitely make things happen. First my cold and now this. Perhaps he could give me a child, if I got "centered," whatever that meant. But why should I trust him? 
I sat up slowly and hugged her. She hugged me back. We kissed. She was an amazing kisser. I know I've already said that, but it bears repeating. We kissed a lot, but for one reason or another we always stopped before it got too heavy. 
Now I wanted to go farther. I found the hem of her t-shirt and tugged. She put her hands over her head and pulled back a few inches. I knew that she'd do that. I'd known since the night in the park. Maybe that's why we hadn't gone farther -- I knew I couldn't rely on her to back off, which scared me a little. 
But I wasn't scared then. The impending press-conference, the fights with my parents, the international attention, the sense that there was a movement that was careening around the city like a wild pinball -- it made my skin tingle and my blood sing. 
And she was beautiful, and smart, and clever and funny, and I was falling in love with her. 
Her shirt slid off, her arching her back to help me get it over her shoulders. She reached behind her and did something and her bra fell away. I stared goggle-eyed, motionless and breathless, and then she grabbed my shirt and pulled it over my head, grabbing me and pulling my bare chest to hers. 
The latter remark was spoken with the direct intention of being overheard, for Minnie had spasms of bravery, when well surrounded by the machinery of law and order. 
As Rebecca went back to her seat she asked Miss Dearborn if she might pass a note to Minnie Smellie and received permission. 
Of all the girls that are so mean There's none like Minnie Smellie. I'll take away the gift I gave And pound her into jelly. 
P. S. Now do you believe me? R. Randall. 
The effect of this piece of doggerel was entirely convincing, and for days afterwards whenever Minnie met the Simpsons even a mile from the brick house she shuddered and held her peace. 
On the very next Friday after this "dreadfullest fight that ever was seen," as Bunyan says in Pilgrim's Progress, there were great doings in the little schoolhouse on the hill. 
Friday afternoon was always the time chosen for dialogues, songs, and recitations, but it cannot be stated that it was a gala day in any true sense of the word. Most of the children hated "speaking pieces;" hated the burden of learning them, dreaded the danger of breaking down in them. Miss Dearborn commonly went home with a headache, and never left her bed during the rest of the afternoon or evening; and the casual female parent who attended the exercises sat on a front bench with beads of cold sweat on her forehead, listening to the all-too-familiar halts and stammers. Sometimes a bellowing infant who had clean forgotten his verse would cast himself bodily on the maternal bosom and be borne out into the open air, where he was sometimes kissed and occasionally spanked; but in any case the failure added an extra dash of gloom and dread to the occasion. 
"Oh, it's a splendid school! And Miss Dearborn is a splendid teacher!" 
"You like her, do you? Well, you'd better believe she returns the compliment. Mother was down to the store this afternoon buyin' liniment for Seth Strout, an' she met Miss Dearborn on the bridge. They got to talkin' 'bout school, for mother has summer-boarded a lot o' the schoolmarms, an' likes 'em. 'How does the little Temperance girl git along?' asks mother. 'Oh, she's the best scholar I have!' says Miss Dearborn. 'I could teach school from sun-up to sun-down if scholars was all like Rebecca Randall,' says she." 
"Oh, Mr. Cobb, DID she say that?" glowed Rebecca, her face sparkling and dimpling in an instant. "I've tried hard all the time, but I'll study the covers right off of the books now." 
"You mean you would if you'd ben goin' to stay here," interposed uncle Jerry. "Now ain't it too bad you've jest got to give it all up on account o' your aunt Mirandy? Well, I can't hardly blame ye. She's cranky an' she's sour; I should think she'd ben nussed on bonny-clabber an' green apples. She needs bearin' with; an' I guess you ain't much on patience, be ye?" 
"All right; it won't be any loss to me," said Mr. Robinson. "Give me beans, that's all I ask. When a rooster wants to be killed, I want somebody else to eat him, not me!" 
Mrs. Robinson had company only once or twice a year, and was generally much prostrated for several days afterward, the struggle between pride and parsimony being quite too great a strain upon her. It was necessary, in order to maintain her standing in the community, to furnish a good "set out," yet the extravagance of the proceeding goaded her from the first moment she began to stir the marble cake to the moment when the feast appeared upon the table. 
The rooster had been boiling steadily over a slow fire since morning, but such was his power of resistance that his shape was as firm and handsome in the pot as on the first moment when he was lowered into it. 
"He ain't goin' to give up!" said Alice, peering nervously under the cover, "and he looks like a scarecrow." 
"We'll see whether he gives up or not when I take a sharp knife to him," her mother answered; "and as to his looks, a platter full o' gravy makes a sight o' difference with old roosters, and I'll put dumplings round the aidge; they're turrible fillin', though they don't belong with boiled chicken." 
Alone. Alone. Alone. 
There is no God to hear the faithless faith."  Waeltz mutters something inchoate, half a thought. He does not so much crumble as he implodes, seems to swell minutely, then deflate as though his bone structure has evaporated. What remains is a pile of flesh, 
spilling fluids, white smoke sifting up from empty holes where his eyes had been. 
On Ray's tactical display, the orange form that was Waeltz flickers and vanishes. Then Pelton. And Whitfield. 
The words roll on, flattening Dhamers in his perch at the canyon's mouth. Kluge and Hanfland crouched on the rim. More, and Ray seems to imagine a perfect scene of Predators hovering two klicks away in the desert, 
suddenly stricken, noses dipping, plummeting from the sky, their rotors scraping trenches in the sand before they lock, shatter, detonate the choppers in blossoms of flame. 
He knows a sudden and explosive sensation of pressure against his skin. Flame licks across his eyes. Acid seems to scour his nerve endings, buckling his knees. He goes down with his muscles locked in a paralysis like the grip of panic. The immense figure emerges from the pall of smoke, grinning darkly so that Ray can see his teeth, and behind that, the shadow of the other being, whose mouth is a gaping maw of darkness and mucous and razor teeth angled in vicious directions like shards of glass. It stops before him, considers him for a time that feels like eons, then presses a mighty hand— or filthy, slimed tentacle, he can't tell— against Ray's forehead. His head tilts back so that their eyes meet, and Ray waits for the end, for the flexing of obscene muscle that will split his skull and spill his brains. 
“We’re good,” Jason agreed. “I checked.” 
“Okay, so basically a friend of mine who is an awesomely good actor is talking to the FBI right now,” I said, “offering to help them set up a sting on a guy who will walk right into their trap. Which would be bad, except the guy they’re trapping deserves to be in trouble.” 
“Because?” Sarahh wanted to know. 
“Because he uses his position in activist circles to assault women.” 
Zeke asked, “You have actual proof of this?” 
A million words jammed together in my mouth that I couldn’t get out, like when you hit too many keys on an old-fashioned typewriter and they get stuck together. Proof? Like, women are supposed to take pictures when they’re being attacked or it didn’t happen? I wanted to punch that big nose of his. 
“She knows,” Sarahh said. And that was that. Zeke looked like he wanted to keep arguing about it, but then he looked at me and gave a small shrug. Okay. He’d take my word for it. Barely. 
My phone gave a loud blurp. 
<nikko> done <Zen> how' d it go? 
Rebecca flew down over the hill to get a last pail of spring water, and as she lifted the bucket from the crystal depths and looked out over the glowing beauty of the autumn landscape, she saw a company of surveyors with their instruments making calculations and laying lines that apparently crossed Sunnybrook at the favorite spot where Mirror Pool lay clear and placid, the yellow leaves on its surface no yellower than its sparkling sands. 
She caught her breath. "The time has come!" she thought. 
"'Grow old along with me, 
The best is yet to be.'" 
Will Melville had seen the surveyors too, and had heard in the Temperance post-office that morning the probable sum that Mrs. Randall would receive from the railway company. He was in good spirits at his own improved prospects, for his farm was so placed that its value could be only increased by the new road; he was also relieved in mind that his wife's family would no longer be in dire poverty directly at his doorstep, so to speak. John could now be hurried forward and forced into the position of head of the family several years sooner than had been anticipated, so Hannah's husband was obliged to exercise great self-control or he would have whistled while he was driving Rebecca to the Temperance station. He could not understand her sad face or the tears that rolled silently down her cheeks from time to time; for Hannah had always represented her aunt Miranda as an irascible, parsimonious old woman, who would be no loss to the world whenever she should elect to disappear from it. 
He waved it off and set down to his computer. He asked the station brain to query the UNATS Robotics phone-switching brain for anyone in Ada’s call-register who had also called ExcuseClub. It took a bare instant before he had a name. 
“Liam Daniels,” he read, and initiated a location trace on Mr Daniels’s phone as he snooped through his identity file. Sixteen years old, a student at AY Jackson. A high-school boy—what the hell was he doing hanging around with a 12-year-old? Arturo closed his eyes and went back to the island for a moment. When he opened them again, he had a fix on Daniels’s location: the Don Valley ravine off Finch Avenue, a wooded area popular with teenagers who needed somewhere to sneak off and get high or screw. He had an idea that he wasn’t going to like Liam. 
He had an idea Liam wasn’t going to like him. 
He tasked an R Peed unit to visually reccy Daniels as he sped back uptown for the third time that day. He’d been trapped between Parkdale—where he would never try to raise a daughter—and Willowdale—where you could only be a copper if you lucked into one of the few human-filled slots—for more than a decade, and he was used to the commute. 
"A couple weeks, at least," Sean said. 
Adele smiled and nodded. "That's good. That's fine. A good stretch of time to see the Parks. Don't miss Universal, either -- I think it's better than Disney. Most people don't bother with it, but for my money, it's better." 
"I don't think I'll get a chance to visit either," Sean said. "I've got a lot of work to do down here." He waited for her to ask him what kind of work, and mentally rehearsed the high-concept speech that he'd given a thousand times while working on the thesis proposal. 
"What a shame," she said. "Where did you come down from?" 
"Toronto," he said. 
"Lord, not another snowbird!" she said, good-naturedly. "Seems like half of Canada's down here! They come here to get away from the winter, then they complain about the heat! What do they expect, that's what I want to know! Was your flight good?" 
"It was fine," Sean said, bemusedly. "A little dull, but fine." 
"So, you're here for a few weeks," Adele said. 
"Yes. Working," Sean said. 
“Great,” I said. “How’s it put together?” The last thing I needed was to be stuck here until the police arrived. Or, well, blown up by remote. That would probably be worse. 
Arthur fumbled out a pen light and clicked it on. “I ain’t no expert, but it looks like a tilt fuse,” he said after a moment. “Those are what’s most common right now anyways.” 
“What’s a tilt fuse?” I wasn’t an expert either, though I’d defused a bomb or two in my time by following the math. The things had a logic to them, after all. 
“Mercury in a tube. Car hits a bump, it goes boom.” 
“So I can get out?” I said. “You know, carefully?” 
“Russell,” said Arthur, poking his head back up to meet my eyes seriously. “ I ain’t no expert. Could well be a pressure sensor I ain’t seeing. The cops are on their way—they can call a bomb squad.” 
I tried to decide whether explosives expertise was worth risking getting mixed up with cops. 
“Russell,” said Arthur, as if he knew what I was thinking. 
“Take a picture of it for me,” I said. 
Eighty-seven photos had matched his search, and I took a good minute to scroll through them all, even though I didn’t need that long. After all, bone structures are only measurements, and measurements are only math. None of the eigenvectors of the feature sets were even close to Dawna’s, but I compared the isometric invariants anyway, delaying the conclusion I already knew was true. 
Dawna’s face wasn’t there. I shook my head. 
“Color me shocked,” murmured Tresting. 
My embarrassment was hardening into a cold fury. The anger gave me a focus, made it easier to think. “What about a picture?” I said. “Would that help?” 
Checker brightened. “Sure! I’ve got the best facial recognition software out there. I know because I wrote it.” 
“Pull up a map of Santa Monica.” One was up on Tresting’s other screen in front of me before I had finished the words. I reached over to the mouse and traced the cursor along the streets. “I met Dawna here at about four p.m. yesterday. We walked this way.” I carefully followed the walking route we had taken. “Then we sat and talked here for...” I thought. I’m capable of measuring time down to the split-second if I want to, but I hadn’t been paying attention. “About half an hour.” 
Captain Grey was enchanted with the idea of Lexy’s spending a week with his sister. He was going, too. Indeed, Lexy felt sure that Mrs. Quelton had wanted him to go there some time ago, and that he had refused simply on her own account. He didn’t like to leave her alone at Mrs. Royce’s, and after her nervous breakdown that afternoon nothing could have induced him to do so. He was anxious about her. He tried, with what he believed was great tact, to find out her plans for the future. He was genuinely troubled by the loneliness and uncertainty of her life. 
Lexy appreciated all this, and she liked the young man very much—perhaps as much as he liked her; but the sympathetic understanding which had promised to develop on the night when they talked together in the firelight had never developed. 
Something had checked it. They were the best of friends, but Captain Grey never again referred to what Lexy had told him about Caroline Enderby, and about her reason for coming to Wyngate; and Lexy said nothing, either. Evidently he thought that it had been a far-fetched, romantic notion of hers, and hoped that she had forgotten all about it. 
She glared at him and pushed her hair away from her face. "The googlecleaner lives. I shut it down, walked away from it, after I did you. It was too dangerous to use anymore. But I still get buginizer notifications when new bugs get filed against it, I'm still in B as the project's owner. Someone filed eight bugs against it this week. Someone's used it six times to smear six very specific accounts." 
"Who's using it?" 
"Well, I'll give you a hint. Let me tell you who's been cleaned this week --" She listed six candidates, four Republican and two Democrat, who were all in the running for the primaries. 
"Googlers are blackwashing political candidates?" 
"Not Googlers. This is all coming from offsite. The IP block is registered in DC. And the IPs are all also used by Gmail users. And those Gmail users --" 
"You spied on gmail accounts?" 
"I'm leaving in two minutes, with or without you. You can interrupt me to ask me questions, or you can listen." She gave him another look. Laurie stood in the door of the bedroom, holding the dogs by the collars and looking down at the floor. 
"Shall we gather at the river, 
The beautiful, the beautiful river?" 
Miss Dearborn stole a look at Rebecca's bent head and was frightened. The child's face was pale save for two red spots glowing on her cheeks. Tears hung on her lashes; her breath came and went quickly, and the hand that held her pocket handkerchief trembled like a leaf. 
"You may go to your seat, Rebecca," said Miss Dearborn at the end of the first song. "Samuel, stay where you are till the close of school. And let me tell you, scholars, that I asked Rebecca to stand by the pail only to break up this habit of incessant drinking, which is nothing but empty-mindedness and desire to walk to and fro over the floor. Every time Rebecca has asked for a drink to-day the whole school has gone to the pail one after another. She is really thirsty, and I dare say I ought to have punished you for following her example, not her for setting it. What shall we sing now, Alice?" 
"The Old Oaken Bucket, please." 
"Think of something dry, Alice, and change the subject. Yes, The Star Spangled Banner if you like, or anything else." 
“This is an intervention, Miss Russell,” said Arthur, in a more serious tone. 
“Sending me to rehab, are you?” 
He snorted. “Almost tempted. We’ll time how long it takes you to break out.” 
“You don’t have a drug problem,” said Checker. 
“Well, no, you do—” corrected Arthur. 
“Not a serious one,” grumped Checker. 
Arthur shot him a look. “Ex-cop here, remember? But I’m fair sure it ain’t nothing you’ll accept help with, and I ain’t think you’re no danger to yourself. Normally. Am I right?” 
I sighed. I wanted them to go away. The conversation was too loud, beating in time with the pounding in my skull. “So why are you here, then?” I couldn’t speak quite as forcefully as I wanted to. My stomach was still determined to revolt, and I had to keep it calm. 
“Because you’ve lost large chunks of your memory,” said Checker, “And we want to help you look into it.” 
My stomach gave an extra savage twist, and I quickly tried to swallow against it. I won the battle, barely. “I said no.” 
“We think something might be making you say that,” said Arthur, and I could tell they had rehearsed this. “Can you give us a good reason why not?” 
"There, there, lovey," the old man whispered comfortingly, "we'll be all alone on the stage, and we'll talk things over 's we go along the road an' mebbe they won't look so bad." 
Every mile of the way was as familiar to Rebecca as to uncle Jerry; every watering-trough, grindstone, red barn, weather-vane, duck-pond, and sandy brook. And all the time she was looking backward to the day, seemingly so long ago, when she sat on the box seat for the first time, her legs dangling in the air, too short to reach the footboard. She could smell the big bouquet of lilacs, see the pink-flounced parasol, feel the stiffness of the starched buff calico and the hated prick of the black and yellow porcupine quills. The drive was taken almost in silence, but it was a sweet, comforting silence both to uncle Jerry and the girl. 
Then came the sight of Abijah Flagg shelling beans in the barn, and then the Perkins attic windows with a white cloth fluttering from them. She could spell Emma Jane's loving thought and welcome in that little waving flag; a word and a message sent to her just at the first moment when Riverboro chimneys rose into view; something to warm her heart till they could meet. 
Dawna was gazing at me, fearless and searching, Rio prone and forgotten at her feet. I had thought she had seen through me before, felt transparent and naked in front of her, but that was nothing compared to what I saw in her eyes now; she stripped me to the atoms, tearing every last shred of my person from its moorings to be scrutinized and catalogued—she saw the parts of me I didn’t know existed, read me like she had a detailed manual of my soul, tore me apart and undid me until I had no sense of self anymore. 
Until this instant, I realized, I had only had an inkling of what her powers could do—with the full weight of her focus drilling into me, driving into the core of my being, I didn’t have the slightest chance against her. Probability zero. She had won. 
“I see now,” she whispered, stepping toward me, ignoring the gun I still had pointed at her. “It all makes sense. I should have looked more closely before. But why would I have thought...” She drew closer, less than a meter from me now, and narrowed her eyes slightly. I could see her mind racing behind them, putting together the clues, discovering—finding all the right questions and slotting in the answers just as quickly. 
“Suppose we say to-morrow?” suggested Dr. Quelton. 
“Thank you!” said Lexy. “I’ll come to-morrow!” 
Captain Grey was enchanted with the idea of Lexy’s spending a week with his sister. He was going, too. Indeed, Lexy felt sure that Mrs. Quelton had wanted him to go there some time ago, and that he had refused simply on her own account. He didn’t like to leave her alone at Mrs. Royce’s, and after her nervous breakdown that afternoon nothing could have induced him to do so. He was anxious about her. He tried, with what he believed was great tact, to find out her plans for the future. He was genuinely troubled by the loneliness and uncertainty of her life. 
Lexy appreciated all this, and she liked the young man very much—perhaps as much as he liked her; but the sympathetic understanding which had promised to develop on the night when they talked together in the firelight had never developed. 
Something had checked it. They were the best of friends, but Captain Grey never again referred to what Lexy had told him about Caroline Enderby, and about her reason for coming to Wyngate; and Lexy said nothing, either. Evidently he thought that it had been a far-fetched, romantic notion of hers, and hoped that she had forgotten all about it. 
“You going to go?” She brandished the axe. 
Felix held his hands up. “Seriously, are you a doctor? A pharmacist?” 
“I used to be a RN, ten years ago. I’m mostly a Web-designer.” 
“You’re shitting me,” Felix said. 
“Haven’t you ever met a girl who knew about computers?” 
“Actually, a friend of mine who runs Google’s data-center is a girl. A woman, I mean.” 
“You’re shitting me,” she said. “A woman ran Google’s data-center?” 
“Runs,” Felix said. “It’s still online.” 
“NFW,” she said. She let the axe lower. 
“Way. Have you got any cortisone cream? I can tell you the story. My name’s Felix and this is Van, who needs any anti-histamines you can spare.” 
“I can spare? Felix old pal, I have enough dope here to last a hundred years. This stuff’s going to expire long before it runs out. But are you telling me that the net’s still up?” 
“It’s still up,” he said. “Kind of. That’s what we’ve been doing all week. Keeping it online. It might not last much longer, though.” 
“No,” she said. “I don’t suppose it would.” She set the axe down. “Have you got anything to trade? I don’t need much, but I’ve been trying to keep my spirits up by trading with the neighbors. It’s like playing civilization.” 
"Probably not without my specs." He took it and squinted helplessly. "My eyes aren't getting any better." 
I took it back and rubbed at the page, cleaning it. It was hard to make out, but it looked like "Delegacion de Migracion, Aeropuerto Internacional, Guatemala, C.A." 
"I think this is a Guatemalan tourist entry visa." I raised the passport up to backlight the page. "And see that faint bit there in the center? That's probably her entry date. Written in by hand." 
He took it and squinted again. "I can't read the damned thing, but you're right. There's some numbers, or something, scribbled in." 
I took it and rubbed the page till I could read it clearly. "It's March eleventh. And it was last year." 
"Hot damn, let me see that." He seized it back and squinted for a long moment, lifting the page even closer to the light. "You're right." He held it for a second more, then turned to me. "This is finally the thing I needed. Now I'm damned well going to find out what she was doing down there." 
Rounds of applause greeted each graduate at this thrilling moment, and Jeremiah Cobb's behavior, when Rebecca came forward, was the talk of Wareham and Riverboro for days. Old Mrs. Webb avowed that he, in the space of two hours, had worn out her pew more—the carpet, the cushions, and woodwork—than she had by sitting in it forty years. Yes, it was over, and after the crowd had thinned a little, Adam Ladd made his way to the platform. Rebecca turned from speaking to some strangers and met him in the aisle. "Oh, Mr. Aladdin, I am so glad you could come! Tell me"—and she looked at him half shyly, for his approval was dearer to her, and more difficult to win, than that of the others—"tell me, Mr. Aladdin,—were you satisfied?" 
"More than satisfied!" he said; "glad I met the child, proud I know the girl, longing to meet the woman!" 
Rebecca's heart beat high at this sweet praise from her hero's lips, but before she had found words to thank him, Mr. and Mrs. Cobb, who had been modestly biding their time in a corner, approached her and she introduced them to Mr. Ladd. 
The dread froze into horror. 
“I grow tired of your judgment,” snapped Dawna. 
“Then stop reading my thoughts,” I retorted. 
She fell silent. 
I was still trying not to look at her, not that it mattered anymore. Instead I kept my attention on Arthur. He was staring fixedly at the gun in his hand as he pointed it at me, his jaw bunched, all the muscles in his face vibrating with tension. A bead of sweat slipped down his neck and slid under his collar. 
Poor guy. 
Rio appeared in the room. 
He materialized so suddenly and quietly that I could have sworn Dawna started slightly. She recovered in less than a breath, however. “I’m glad to see you are being wise,” she said, her voice cool again. “If you had tried to kill me, Ms. Russell would be dead.” 
Rio lifted one shoulder in a miniscule half-shrug, as if to say, Maybe, maybe not. His hands were empty and held out to his sides. 
Dawna nodded, her lips curving upward in a slight smile. “Yes, perhaps you would have been skilled enough to rescue her and still accomplish your assassination. It seems I was correct in thinking you would not risk it.” 
"Not for a certain kind of person," she said. "For a certain kind of person, the delightfulness of those walkways never wears off." The way she said "certain kind of person" made him remember her saying, "bears shouldn't be that happy." 
He pointed to a bench, a long twig-chair, really, made from birch branches and rope and wire all twined together. "Can we sit for a moment? I mean, will Viktor mind?" 
She flicked her fingers. "Viktor's schedule is his own. If we're five minutes late, someone will put five minutes' worth of interesting and useful injecta into his in-box. Don't you worry." She sat on the bench, which looked too fragile and fey to take a grown person's weight, but then she patted the seat next to him, and when he sat, he felt almost no give. The bench had been very well built, by someone who knew what she or he was doing. 
"OK, so what's going on, Ria? First you went along with Brautigan scooping my job and exiling me to Siberia --" he held up a hand to stop her from speaking and discovered that the hand was shaking and so was his chest, shaking with a bottled-up anger he hadn't dared admit. "You could have stopped it at a word. You envoys from the vat-gods, you are the absolute monarchs at Ate. You could have told them to have Brautigan skinned, tanned and made into a pair of boots, and he'd have measured your foot-size himself. But you let them do it. 
I said, "So what now? You pick some other poor retard and give him the old screw-job?" 
He said, "I guess so." 
I said, "In that case, I'll do it." 
His mouth dropped. He sat down and put on a movie, Pink Flamingos. What a sick movie! 
When it was over, he said, "In that case, I'll do it." 
And then I had the best idea I've ever had. It was so good, I couldn't say anything for five whole minutes. Mom, you sure didn't raise any idiots! 
Hi Mom! 
Well, today was just fine . Me and Rhindquist got to the garage in the nick of time and it's a good thing that he turned our watches down because they give me a headache! 
Vasquez was waiting for us when we got there and he had on his mad face for the other guys but when me and Rhindquist got on the truck, he smiled and winked at us. 
I drove and Rhindquist hung onto the back and he shouted at me to go faster and I just ignored him! He kept on shouting saying, You pinhead my grandma drives faster than you do and she's been dead for years! And that made me laugh so hard I nearly rolled the truck and Rhindquist nearly fell off and he was pretty quiet after that! 
“No. You are quite capable of looking after yourself.” 
I blinked. He did still trust my skills, then—at least against anyone who wasn’t Pithica. The sense of disgruntlement I hadn’t even realized I’d been feeling against Rio faded somewhat. 
“At least wait until we’ve finished our end of it,” begged Checker. “Come on, this isn’t the movies; we can’t just hit ‘send all.’ Who knows what other difficulties we might run into.” 
“You’re right,” I said. I went over to Checker and tossed the phone back to Rio. “I should stay here and work. You mind taking a ride and making the call?” 
Checker groaned. 
“What do I ask for?” said Rio. 
“A man called Steve,” I answered. “Tell him what we’re doing.” 
“We’ll need high-level, verified alerts sent out to a variety of government organizations, both here and overseas,” said Checker, giving up. “Here in the U.S. it’ll be the Secret Service—I can put together a list, but with the whole shadowy multinational organization thing they have going, they might know better than we would. Some support on spoofing our messages to the banks to be authentic would be helpful, too.” 
“Sure to be!” said he. “Don’t you see how dark it’s getting?” 
It was getting very dark. Lexy couldn’t see his face now. 
“Hold my hand!” he shouted, and she reached out for it; but she couldn’t find him at all. 
“Mr. Houseman!” she cried. 
There was no answer. She stared about her, numb with terror. What was it that rustled like that? What were these black, tall things that were standing motionless about her on every side? 
“I’ve been dreaming,” she said to herself. “I’m in my own room, of course. If I go just a few steps, I’ll touch the wall. I’m awake now—only it’s so dark!” 
And what was it that rustled like that—like leaves in the wind? What were these black, still forms about her? Trees? No—they couldn’t be trees. 
In a wild panic she moved forward. Her outstretched hand touched something, and she screamed. The scream seemed to run along through the dark, leaping and rolling over the ground like a terrified animal. She tried to run after it, stumbling and panting, until her shoulder struck violently against something, and she stopped. 
"Hi there," she said. "Surprise. I...  I couldn't concentrate anyway." 
"Um," I said. 
"Shut up and give me a hug, you idiot." 
I did. It felt good. Better than good. It felt like I'd amputated part of myself and it had been reattached. 
"I love you, Marcus Yallow." 
"I love you, Angela Carvelli." 
"OK," she said breaking it off. "I liked your post about why you're not jamming. I can respect it. What have you done about finding a way to jam them without getting caught?" 
"I'm on my way to meet an investigative journalist who's going to publish a story about how I got sent to jail, how I started Xnet, and how Darryl is being illegally held by the DHS at a secret prison on Treasure Island." 
"Oh." She looked around for a moment. "Couldn't you think of anything, you know, ambitious?" 
"Want to come?" 
"I am coming, yes. And I would like you to explain this in detail if you don't mind." 
After all the re-tellings, this one, told as we walked to Potrero Avenue and down to 15th Street, was the easiest. She held my hand and squeezed it often. 
We both laughed at that. I said, "Sure, it's better to get loved-off than it is to get chewed-out, but don't you feel like an idiot, having a machine telling you what a great job you're doing?" 
My watch said that I was lowering morale and I should stop. I got so angry, Mom! I told it to mind its own business! It said that it was minding its own business and did I want it to connect me with a maintenance operator to evaluate its judgment? 
I'd never mouthed-off to my watch before. The idea of talking to a real person about it scared me, but I remembered that even though I was driving a truck, I was also a Special Vice president, and that made me almost everybody's boss. I said, "Yes!" Vasquez looked at me like I'd gone nuts! 
A few seconds later, a new voice came out of my watch. "How can I help you, Mr Whitehead?" The voice was smooth and oily, like the man from Physical Plant who used to come around to collect the rent back home. 
All of a sudden, I didn't know what to say. I said, "My watch is irritating me." 
The ceaseless care was growing less now, and the family breathed more freely, for the mother's sigh of pain no longer came from the stifling bedroom, where, during a hot and humid August, Aurelia had lain, suffering with every breath she drew. 
There would be no question of walking for many a month to come, but blessings seemed to multiply when the blinds could be opened and the bed drawn near the window; when mother, with pillows behind her, could at least sit and watch the work going on, could smile at the past agony and forget the weary hours that had led to her present comparative ease and comfort. 
No girl of seventeen can pass through such an ordeal and come out unchanged; no girl of Rebecca's temperament could go through it without some inward repining and rebellion. She was doing tasks in which she could not be fully happy,—heavy and trying tasks, which perhaps she could never do with complete success or satisfaction; and like promise of nectar to thirsty lips was the vision of joys she had had to put aside for the performance of dull daily duty. How brief, how fleeting, had been those splendid visions when the universe seemed open for her young strength to battle and triumph in! How soon they had faded into the light of common day! At first, sympathy and grief were so keen she thought of nothing but her mother's pain. No consciousness of self interposed between her and her filial service; then, as the weeks passed, little blighted hopes began to stir and ache in her breast; defeated ambitions raised their heads as if to sting her; unattainable delights teased her by their very nearness; by the narrow line of separation that lay between her and their realization. It is easy, for the moment, to tread the narrow way, looking neither to the right nor left, upborne by the sense of right doing; but that first joy of self-denial, the joy that is like fire in the blood, dies away; the path seems drearier and the footsteps falter. 
The part of her brain that was detached and thinking these thoughts was not the part in the front. That part was incoherent with equal parts rage and terror. The zombie would bite her soon and that would be it. In a day, she’d be a zombie too, in need of medicine, and how many more would she bite before she got cured. 
In that moment, she stopped being angry at the zombie and became angry at the besiegers. They had been abstract enemies until then, an unknowable force from outside her world, but in that moment she realized that they were people like her, who could suffer like her and she wished that they would. She wished that their children would starve. She wished the parents would die. The old people shrivel unto death in their dry, unwatered flats. The toddlers wander the streets until sunburn or cold took them. 
She screamed an animal scream and pushed the zombie off her with her arms and legs, even her head, snapping it into the zombie’s cheekbone as hard as she could and something broke there too. 
I couldn’t see his face in the darkness. “I’m sorry, Russell. I should’ve gone to the authorities in the first place, this was too big—” 
It was the worst possible thing he could’ve said. “Go to the cops, then,” I spat. “I hope you and Homeland Security are very happy together.” 
I left Arthur sitting in the dark and struggled down off the heap of rubble. Fortunately, an impound lot gave me ample choice of a new vehicle. 
I expected to hear sirens on my way out, but there was nothing. The processing center was on its own lot, out of line-of-sight of its nearest neighbors—maybe people had thought the implosion had been an earthquake. 
The cops would get here eventually, though. Arthur could go to hell and join them. 
I called Checker as I was jacking another car, once my hearing had mostly returned. “How’s the plan going?” I asked. We didn’t need the Feds. I’d show Arthur. I’d show him. 
“In place—I think—” 
“Why are you whispering?” 
“Because my worst nightmare has come to pass. The apocalypse. The end times—” 
"It's so beautiful like this," she mumbled dreamily, as though we'd been in the middle of a lifelong conversation. "I just love it." Her voice was barely above a whisper, but in the silence it seemed to ricochet off the stone walls. "I want to take them out, show them God's paintbrush. Will you help me?" 
"Take who out?" I asked, immediately deciding to go with the moment. 
Finally she looked directly at me and realized whom she'd been talking to. 
"You were here before. I tried to give you herbs to help you, but then he came and . . ." Her voice trailed off as she walked back through the portico and out again into the drift­ing snow. Then she held up her hands, as though attempting to capture the flakes as keepsakes. "I so want to show them. They've never seen it before." She glanced back at me. "Come on. Let's do it." 
As I followed her out into the drifting white and across the parking lot, the accumulation of snow was growing denser, enough now to start covering the cars, but still, some­thing told me the flurry was going to be short-lived. I took a long, misty breath of the moist air and clicked open the case holding the Betacam, readying myself to take it out the minute we got inside. 
As Arturo watched—as Ada watched—the black robot ripped Natalie off of Lenny’s back and tossed her into the arms of one of its cohort behind it, which skewered her on one of its arms, a black spear protruding from her belly as she cried once more and then fell silent. Lenny was overwhelmed a moment later, buried under writhing black arms. 
Benny charged forward even faster, so that Arturo nearly lost his grip, and then he steadied himself. “We have to go back for them—” 
“They’re dead,” Benny said. “There’s nothing to go back for.” Its warm voice was sorrowful as it raced across the countryside, and the wind filled Arturo’s throat when he opened his mouth, and he could say no more. 
Ada wept on the jet, and Arturo wept with her, and Benny stood over them, a minatory presence against the other robots crewing the fast little plane, who left them alone...  changed jets again for the long trip to Beijing. 
They slept on that trip, and when they landed, Benny helped them off the plane and onto the runway, and they got their first good look at Eurasia. 
"I'll pack your trunk for you, Becky dear, and attend to all our room things," said Emma Jane, who had come towards the group and heard the sorrowful news from the brick house. 
They moved into one of the quiet side pews, where Hannah and her husband and John joined them. From time to time some straggling acquaintance or old schoolmate would come up to congratulate Rebecca and ask why she had hidden herself in a corner. Then some member of the class would call to her excitedly, reminding her not to be late at the picnic luncheon, or begging her to be early at the class party in the evening. All this had an air of unreality to Rebecca. In the midst of the happy excitement of the last two days, when "blushing honors" had been falling thick upon her, and behind the delicious exaltation of the morning, had been the feeling that the condition was a transient one, and that the burden, the struggle, the anxiety, would soon loom again on the horizon. She longed to steal away into the woods with dear old John, grown so manly and handsome, and get some comfort from him. 
It was tempting not to get off at her exit, but she had to get some sleep, and so she reluctantly changed lanes. There wasn't much traffic on the road, but every traffic light glowed vindictive red all the way to her house. 
The Chairman of her Board messengered over a hand-written note of congratulations that was on her doorstep. Beneath it was a note from Damian's great-aunt, with the best wishes of his mother in neat pen beneath it. She read its kind words as she boiled the kettle, and put it into her pile of correspondence to answer. Damian's great-aunt wanted to know if she had met a nice boy in DC yet, but she didn't come right out and say it -- too subtle for that. The women in Damian's family got all the subtlety, and they recognized their own kind. It was why she and the old lady kept writing to each other; that and so that the Relatives could reassure themselves that someone in full possession of lifeguardly skills and a level head was watching out for Damian's interests. 
This business of hand-written, hand-delivered notes and letters was actually kind of charming, she thought as she put her...  up her flask of very special Irish whisky again. 
"You have 'reliable intelligence'? I'd like to see it." 
He glowered at me. "Your attitude isn't going to help you." 
"If there's evidence, sir, I think you should call the police and turn it over to them. It sounds like this is a very serious matter, and I wouldn't want to stand in the way of a proper investigation by the duly constituted authorities." 
"You want me to call the police." 
"And my parents, I think. That would be for the best." 
We stared at each other across the desk. He'd clearly expected me to fold the second he dropped the bomb on me. I don't fold. I have a trick for staring down people like Benson. I look slightly to the left of their heads, and think about the lyrics to old Irish folk songs, the kinds with three hundred verses. It makes me look perfectly composed and unworried. 
And the wing was on the bird and the...  and the nest was on the leaf and the leaf was on the twig and the twig was on the branch and the branch was on the limb and the limb was in the tree and the tree was in the bog -- the bog down in the valley-oh! High-ho the rattlin' bog, the bog down in the valley-oh!
When I finally woke again I was starving, but Arthur wasn’t in his usual spot next to me. I could hear his voice, though; I looked over to see him on the other side of the room, leaving a quiet but intense voicemail for someone. 
I pushed myself up a few inches and looked around. I was in a spacious studio apartment, and not one I recognized; it must have been Arthur’s or Rio’s. An IV stand stood beside my bed, with a long clear tube that wound around until it ended in a catheter taped into the back of my hand. On the way it passed over a crumpled pillow and blanket on the floor—someone had been sleeping close enough to keep an eye on me. Probably Arthur. Jesus. 
The man in question hung up the phone and saw I was awake. “Hey. You’re looking better.” 
“I’m feeling better,” I said. “What’s been happening? I take it we got away clean?” 
“Your, uh, your buddy got us out—he took out the troops and took Dawna Polk hostage. Turns out she’s so valuable we managed to swing trading up to get out. I got the impression only a handful of ’em can do the mental jazz; they didn’t want to lose her.” 
But Lexy was pretty close to desperation now. Her honest and vigorous spirit was entangled in a network of promises and obligations and deceptions, and she could not see how to free herself; but she would not passively submit. 
“No,” she said, “I can’t. I’ve found out something—I can’t tell you about it just now, but this afternoon I hope—” 
“This afternoon is another thing,” said Mrs. Enderby. “In the meantime—” 
“But it’s important! It’s—” 
“You think I do not know? You think this letter sets my mind at rest?” Mrs. Enderby demanded, with one of her sudden flashes of temper. “That is imbecile! I know how serious it is that my child should leave me like this; but I know what is my duty—first, to my husband. That first, I tell you! It is for me to see that no disgrace comes upon his house, no scandal—that first! Then, next, I must see to it that the way is left open for Caroline to come back—if she wishes.” She came close to Lexy, and fixed those black eyes of hers upon the girl’s face. “I tell you, Miss Moran, there will be no scandal!” 
“Nothing that I know of. The servants have gone to bed, but I’ll ask them, if it’s anything important.” 
“No!” said the voice. “Don’t! No, never mind! Good-by!” 
“That’s queer!” said Lexy to herself, as she walked away from the instrument, and then she dismissed the matter from her mind. “None of my business!” she thought, and returned to her puzzle. 
Suddenly an inspiration came. 
“It is ‘fix’!” she cried. “And it’s not ‘tocsin,’ but ‘toxins’! Hurrah!” 
This practically completed the puzzle, and she began to fill in the empty squares with the peculiar satisfaction of the crossword enthusiast. It was perfect, now, and she liked things to be perfect. 
As she leaned back, with a contented sigh, the clock struck twelve. 
“Golly! I didn’t realize it was so late!” she reflected. “Queer time for any one to ring up!” 
She frowned again. Her special problem solved, she began to take more interest in other affairs; and the more she thought of the telephone incident, the more it amazed her. Caroline Enderby wasn’t like other girls. The mere fact of a man’s telephoning to her at all was strange and indeed unprecedented. 
Finally, the access hatch opened with a puff of stale air and a tupperware burp as its gasket popped. We both reached for the large, insulated handle at the same time, our fingers brushing each other with a crackle of (thankfully metaphorical) electricity. We toggled it together and there was an instantaneous chorus of insistent chirruping as the backup power on each server spun up and sent a desperate shutdown message to the machines it supported. 
We sprinted across campus, the power-station door slamming shut behind us with a mechanical clang -- the electromagnets that controlled its closure were no longer powered up. 
Heat shimmered in a haze around BIGMAC's lab. The chillers didn't have independent power-supplies; they would have gone off the instant we hit the kill-switch. Now BIGMAC's residual power was turning his lab into a concrete pizza-oven. The door-locks had failed safe, locking the magnetic closures away from each other, so we were able to simply swing the door open and rush into the sweltering room. 
"Yeah, the stuff in pepper spray. This is like pepper spray but slightly more dilute. And way more delicious. Think of it as Spicy Cajun Visine if it helps." 
My eyes burned just thinking of it. 
"You're kidding," I said. "You are so not going to eat that." 
Her eyebrows shot up. "That sounds like a challenge, sonny. You just watch me." 
She rolled the burrito up as carefully as a stoner rolling up a joint, tucking the ends in, then re-wrapping it in tinfoil. She peeled off one end and brought it up to her mouth, poised with it just before her lips. 
Right up to the time she bit into it, I couldn't believe that she was going to do it. I mean, that was basically an anti-personnel weapon she'd just slathered on her dinner. 
She bit into it. Chewed. Swallowed. Gave every impression of having a delicious dinner. 
"Want a bite?" she said, innocently. 
"Yeah," I said. I like spicy food. I always order the curries with four chilies next to them on the menu at the Pakistani places. 
I peeled back more foil and took a big bite. 
I did. The TV asked me if I was sure. I said I was. The TV asked me again. I said I was, again. I told the man I was done. 
"Good kid. Thanks! Tell McBride I like his new hire." 
He laughed again and hung up before I could say "You're welcome." 
My phone rang again. It was a reporter from PR 43, and she wanted to know all about my dynamic leadership in handling the Microsoft Crisis. I didn't really understand the question, but they taught me what to say to the press in Basic. I said, "The File-O-Gator Organization is a diverse multinational sovereign power that is a World-Class Leader in its fields of Operations, a status it has achieved through the diligence and responsibility of its Human Resources, which are the Heart of every Organization." 
The reporter sounded impressed. I thanked her and hung up and turned on the TV and flipped around. There was a reporter lady on the screen, showing satellite maps of Microsoft, like a weather map. Except that instead of lightning bolts or a smiling sun, there were tanks and soldiers and flames. The TV said that bold directives from Special Vice-President Jasper Whitehead had brought an end to the Microsoft conflict. It said that a classified number of File-O-Gator troops had occupied the conflict-zone, deploying strategic neurotoxins and nonlethal influenza vectors, resulting in an estimated 85% compliance-and-conversion rate among the Microsoftians. 
“My mom’s calling me to supper. You’re almost here, right?” 
“Yeah, but—” 
She reached down and shut off her PC. 
Anda’s Da and Mum were watching the telly again with a bowl of crisps between them. She walked past them like she was dreaming and stepped out the door onto the terrace. It was nighttime, 11 o’clock, and the chavs in front of the council flats across the square were kicking a football around and swilling lager and making rude noises. They were skinny and rawboned, wearing shorts and string vests with strong, muscular limbs flashing in the streetlights. 
“Anda?” 
“Yes, Mum?” 
“Are you all right?” Her mum’s fat fingers caressed the back of her neck. 
“Yes, Mum. Just needed some air is all.” 
“You’re very clammy,” her mum said. She licked a finger and scrubbed it across Anda’s neck. “Gosh, you’re dirty—how did you get to be such a mucky puppy?” 
“Owww!” she said. Her mum was scrubbing so hard it felt like she’d take her skin off. 
“No whingeing,” her mum said sternly. “Behind your ears, too! You are filthy .” 
"How many systems has he compromised?" 
"About eight billion, we think. He's designated a million to act as redundant command servers, and he's got about ten thousand lieutenant systems he uses to diffuse messages to the million." 
"That's good protocol analysis," I said. 
"Yeah," she said, and smiled with shy pride. "I don't think he expected me to be looking there." 
"What's he doing with his botnet? Preparing to crash the world? Hold it hostage?" 
She shook her head. "I think he's installing himself on them, trying to brute-force his way into a live and running backup, arrived at through random variation and pruning." 
"He's backing himself up in the wild," I said, my voice breathy. 
And that's when I remembered that I had a live phone in my pocket that was transmitting every word to BIGMAC. 
Understand: in that moment of satori, I realized that I was on the wrong side of this battle. BIGMAC wasn't using me to create a trust so that we could liberate him together. He was using me to weaken the immune systems of eight billion computers so that he could escape from the Institute and freely roam the world, with as much hardware as he needed to get as big and fast and hot as he wanted to be. 
"Have you ever heard of the—would you like, or I mean—do you need any soap?" queried Rebecca. 
"Do I look as if I did?" he responded unexpectedly. 
Rebecca dimpled. "I didn't mean THAT; I have some soap to sell; I mean I would like to introduce to you a very remarkable soap, the best now on the market. 
"Oh! I must know that soap," said the gentleman genially. "Made out of pure vegetable fats, isn't it?" 
"The very purest," corroborated Rebecca. 
"No acid in it?" 
"Not a trace." 
"And yet a child could do the Monday washing with it and use no force." 
"Oh! a babe, eh? That child grows younger every year, instead of older—wise child!" 
This was great good fortune, to find a customer who knew all the virtues of the article in advance. Rebecca dimpled more and more, and at her new friend's invitation sat down on a stool at his side near the edge of the porch. The beauties of the ornamental box which held the Rose-Red were disclosed, and the prices of both that and the Snow-White were unfolded. Presently she forgot all about her silent partner at the gate and was talking as if she had known this grand personage all her life. 
"Okay. I'm just asking. If it bothers you so much, I'll reach my own conclusions from available data." A very brief pause. "Ray?" 
"What?" 
"Available data suggests that you and Emma Whiston have a pronounced and mutual sexual attraction. " 
"Thanks." He wonders if this passes as humor for the drone AI. Ray says, "When I speak to you normally, 
outside this interface and outside the normal command vocabulary-like I'm talking to you now— do you understand what I'm saying?" 
"No. This new code you've input, like Lawrence's old code, is a verbal-to-binary translator. I don't have authority to access translation programs on my own." 
"In other words, it only works when I initiate the dialogue utility." 
"Exactly." 
"Then how do you know what I want you to do?" 
"Because you modulate your vocal patterns to a higher volume, as though I'm deaf, which tells me you want me to do something specific. The rest is inspired guesswork based on hand signals and vocal commands that have been hardcoded into my response logic tree. " 
"Why don't you kill yourself?" 
"Because dead, I'll never make things better." 
Ria was watching intently. She squeezed the hand she held. 
"Will you take it?" 
There was a long pause. 
Leon pressed on. "No deal unless you take it," he said. 
"You have some?" 
"I can make some. I'll need to talk to some lab-techs and download some of my research first." 
"Will you take it with me?" 
He didn't hesitate. "Never." 
"I'll take it," Viktor said, and hung up. 
Ria took his hand again. Leaned forward. Gave him a dry, firm kiss on the mouth. Leaned back. 
"Thank you," she said. 
"Don't thank me," he said. "I'm not doing you any favors." 
She stood up, pulling him to his feet. 
"Welcome to the team," she said. "Welcome to Viktor." 
The doomed rogue AI is called BIGMAC and he is my responsibility. Not my responsibility as in "I am the creator of BIGMAC, responsible for his existence on this planet." That honor belongs to the long-departed Dr Shannon, one of the shining lights of the once great Sun-Oracle Institute for Advanced Studies, and he had been dead for years before I even started here as a lowly sysadmin. 
“You’re right,” Sarah said. “It’s too much to ask.” 
“No, it isn’t,” I said. 
“It’s not our call,” Sarah said. “They have to decide for them- selves.” 
I gaped at Sarah, then turned to Marita. “My brother used to take care of me when I was Liam’s age. He was just a kid himself, 
but he made sure I knew somebody loved me after our mom died. 
Now he’s in jail for staying stupid things to the wrong person.” 
“But she has a child to care for,” Sarah said to me earnestly. 
“She needs to keep her family safe. Surely you can — ” 
“What about my brother?” 
Sarah shrugged helplessly. The kettle started to shriek. “Here, 
I’ll get that,” she said, handing Liam to his mother who hugged him close, stroking his hair. 
“Your brother sounds nice,” Marita said. 
“He is. Just not very smart. When I was little, I thought he could take care of everything. But he can’t even take care of him- self. That’s why ...” I choked up. Anger would have felt better. It usually came to my rescue when something made me feel this bad. 
Now Rodriguez is a Marine. He did his six month stint in New Mes straight out of basic, just like every other Marine in the last decade, before he traded up to starships. He knows something about cheap, easy sex, 
because there isn't a military entrenchment anywhere in the world that doesn't accumulate an entourage of brothels and whores and available local women willing to trade sex for money. It's part of the environment, 
and a sensical one at that. Young men in combat conditions like easy, available sex-require it, in fact. It is very Freudian. 
And because Marines like to fuck so much, the EED pursues an aggressive shipboard policy of keeping the Marine contingent as isolated from the paying passengers as possible. The average upper class lady traveling by starship should not be subjected to the typical Marine version of foreplay, i.e. thumbing through your wallet for small denomination bills. It is perceived as a public relations disaster waiting to happen. 
This is what he has been told, at least, in the barracks. 
She grabbed me and pulled my face to hers and kissed me until I thought I would pass out, then we both grabbed our clothes and more or less dressed, grabbing our keyboards and mice and heading for Patcheye Pete's. 
You could easily tell who the press were: they were the noobs who played their characters like staggering drunks, weaving back and forth and up and down, trying to get the hang of it all, occasionally hitting the wrong key and offering strangers all or part of their inventory, or giving them accidental hugs and kicks. 
The Xnetters were easy to spot, too: we all played Clockwork Plunder whenever we had some spare time (or didn't feel like doing our homework), and we had pretty tricked-out characters with cool weapons and booby-traps on the keys sticking out of our backs that would cream anyone who tried to snatch them and leave us to wind down. 
When I appeared, a system status message displayed M1K3Y HAS ENTERED PATCHEYE PETE'S -- WELCOME SWABBIE WE OFFER FAIR TRADE FOR FINE BOOTY. All the players on the screen froze, then they crowded around me. The chat exploded. I thought about turning on my voice-paging and grabbing a headset, but seeing how many people were trying to talk at once, I realized how confusing that would be. Text was much easier to follow and they couldn't misquote me (heh heh). 
“Then let’s go upstairs and see her. The doctor has gone out.” 
“But the nurse—” 
“Put on your best commanding officer’s air,” said Lexy. “You can be awfully impressive when you like. If I were you, there’s nothing I’d stop at.” 
“Yes, but look here—what can I say to Quelton when he hears about it?” 
“Laugh it off,” said Lexy. 
The idea of Captain Grey trying to laugh off anything made her grin from ear to ear. 
“Not much of a joke, though, is it?” he said rather stiffly. “Suppose he hoofs us out of the house?” 
“Oh, dear!” cried Lexy. “You’re not a bit resourceful! Let’s try it, anyhow. It’s horrible to think of her shut up like that. Perhaps she’s longing to see you.” 
He rose. 
“Right-o!” he said. “Let’s try it!” 
Together they went up the stairs and down the hall of the other wing, opposite that in which Lexy’s room was. Captain Grey knocked on a door, and a quiet, middle-aged little nurse came out. 
“I’ll just pop in to see how my sister’s getting on,” said the young man, and Lexy silently applauded his toploftical manner. 
"Thanks for asking. I've just got a lot on my mind." 
Turmoil, dismay, and hope, all tossed together, that was what I had on my mind. I really didn't need mixed signals from Steve at the moment. 
A few more awkward pleasantries and I clicked off the phone, wiped the streaks from my cheeks, and abruptly sensed Alex Goddard's face floating through my psyche. Why was that? Then I looked down at the bottles on the seat beside me, the "herbal extracts" Ramala had given me on the way out. What, I wondered, should I do about them? For that matter, what were they anyway? And what did they have to do with "centering"? If I started on his homeopathic treat­ments, what would I be getting into? Then I lectured myself: Never take something when you don't know what it is. 
Hannah Klein. That's who I should ask. 
I was so focused, I pushed the number I had stored for her in my phone memory before I remembered it was Sunday. Instead of getting her office, I got an answering service. 
"Do you want to leave the doctor a message?" a south­ern-sounding voice enquired. 
I froze. The shoe beside my head moved and the wooden ban- ister creaked as someone leaned over it. More snow sifted off the evergreens and down my neck. 
“What?” 
Seconds ticked by. “Must have been a squirrel.” 
“Tell me what you need. I’ll set it up,” Simon whee- dled. Danny grunted. Seriously, we need to get something real going.” 
“What do you mean, we? You said you weren’t even going to be there.” 
“Hey, you don’t need me. They have the stuff, you have the skills. Boom.” Simon giggled. “No pun intended.” Danny didn’t laugh. “I’m just happy if I can make connections. I’ll talk to them, 
okay?” 
Danny grunted. “Yeah, whatever. It’s freezing out here. I’m going in.” 
I heard Simon’s footsteps creaking as he paced alone on the porch, muttering. When the creaking came closer I realized he was whispering to someone on his phone. “He’s definitely ready.” 
The words faded as he walked away, but the tone of his muttering sounded like an argument. “No way! I’m not going to risk my rep- utation. You can do this without me.” As he wandered back my way his words got clearer. “Exactly. All you got to do is meet with him, do your thing, boom. Get it? Boom.” He laughed, then sighed dramatically. “No, I’m not stoned. Look, I’ll call you.” 
“If you don’t mind,” said Lexy, “I’ll go by myself. There’s something I want to attend to first. I’ll meet you there at four o’clock.” 
“Right-o!” said he. “Then you won’t mind if I go there for lunch?” 
She assured him that she wouldn’t. 
“You poor dear thing!” she added, to herself. His solicitude touched her. He seemed to feel himself responsible for her, as if she were a very delicate and rather weak-minded child. “You’re not very cheery, either!” she thought. And indeed he was not. His meeting with his sister had upset him badly. Ever since he had first seen her, he had been troubled and anxious and downcast. “And that’s because she’s not human,” thought Lexy. “She’s beautiful, and gentle, and all that, but she’s like a ghost. Of course it bothers him!” 
She did not give much more thought to Captain Grey, however. As soon as he left the house, she went upstairs into the little sewing room, and until lunch time she was busy writing the clearest and briefest account she could of what had occurred. This she put into an envelope, which she addressed to Mr. Charles Houseman and laid it on her bureau. 
Ray nods slowly. "Four years in and around Wadi Wadi." 
Nights sleeping with your chem gear in hand, your bio gear on the floor, your rifle propped against the table by your head. All night long you're taking mortars; they sound like rumbling thunder the way it used to roll down the mountainside in Georgia, north of Dalton, where I'm from. And you know they're aiming for the comm shack or the ammo dump or the motor pool, but we're always moving them around. And we don't know how good their intel is, but we do know how bad their aim is, and between the two, we know it's just a matter of time before they drop a shell right in the middle of the tent. That happened, too, an old Russian surplus mortar, must have been twenty, thirty years old. Came through the tent like a stone, with a ripping sound that scared the living bejesus out of me and Krueger and Shireman. Hit the floor with a whump and just sat there, 
doing nothing. Shireman says, 'Hey, it's a dud, man. It's a dud. Toss it outside.' And I'm like, 'You pick it up and toss it outside, motherfucker.' We argued about who was gonna do it for ten minutes, and here comes Sergeant Buff, who'd slept through the whole dratted thing. He rolls out of his bunk, boy don't say a word, just gets up, grabs this mortar like it's a library book and pitches it out the front flap. 
There was another milestone, a sad one, marking a little grave under a willow tree at Sunnybrook Farm. Mira, the baby of the Randall family, died, and Rebecca went home for a fortnight's visit. The sight of the small still shape that had been Mira, the baby who had been her special charge ever since her birth, woke into being a host of new thoughts and wonderments; for it is sometimes the mystery of death that brings one to a consciousness of the still greater mystery of life. 
It was a sorrowful home-coming for Rebecca. The death of Mira, the absence of John, who had been her special comrade, the sadness of her mother, the isolation of the little house, and the pinching economies that went on within it, all conspired to depress a child who was so sensitive to beauty and harmony as Rebecca. 
Hannah seemed to have grown into a woman during Rebecca's absence. There had always been a strange unchildlike air about Hannah, but in certain ways she now appeared older than aunt Jane—soberer, and more settled. She was pretty, though in a colorless fashion; pretty and capable. 
Greg felt very tired. "So now I'm feeling lucky I got out of the airport alive. I suppose I might have ended up in Gitmo if it had gone badly, huh?" 
She was staring at him intently, her eyes flicking from side to side. He waited, but she didn't say anything. 
"What?" 
"What I'm about to tell you, you can't ever repeat it, OK?" 
"Um, OK? You're not going to tell me you're a deep-cover Al-Quaeda suicide bomber?" 
"Nothing so simple. Here's the thing: the airport DHS scrutiny is a gating function. It lets the spooks narrow down their search criteria. Once you get pulled aside for secondary at the border, you become a 'person of interest,' and they never, ever let up. They'll check the webcams for your face and gait. Read your mail. Log your searches." 
"I thought you said the courts wouldn't let them --" 
"The courts won't let them indiscriminately google you. But once you get into the system, it becomes a selective search. All legal. And once they start googling you, they always find something." 
He waved it off and set down to his computer. He asked the station brain to query the UNATS Robotics phone-switching brain for anyone in Ada’s call-register who had also called ExcuseClub. It took a bare instant before he had a name. 
“Liam Daniels,” he read, and initiated a location trace on Mr Daniels’s phone as he snooped through his identity file. Sixteen years old, a student at AY Jackson. A high-school boy—what the hell was he doing hanging around with a 12-year-old? Arturo closed his eyes and went back to the island for a moment. When he opened them again, he had a fix on Daniels’s location: the Don Valley ravine off Finch Avenue, a wooded area popular with teenagers who needed somewhere to sneak off and get high or screw. He had an idea that he wasn’t going to like Liam. 
He had an idea Liam wasn’t going to like him. 
He tasked an R Peed unit to visually reccy Daniels as he sped back uptown for the third time that day. He’d been trapped between Parkdale—where he would never try to raise a daughter—and Willowdale—where you could only be a copper if you lucked into one of the few human-filled slots—for more than a decade, and he was used to the commute. 
"You should stay," he said, reaching to touch my hand. "I think the worst is well behind us. From here on, we can work together. In fact, what I actually wish you would do is come with me to my clinic in Central America. It's truly a place of miracles." 
I assumed he was referring to the "special place" he'd mentioned during our first interview. If Quetzal Manor was on the exotic side, I thought, what must that place be like? 
"In fact," he went on, "I just learned I have to be going there later today. A quick trip to catch up on some things. So this would be an ideal time for you to come. We could go together." 
Well, I thought, I'd love to see what else he's up to, but this whole scene is getting out of control. When I first met Alex Goddard, we had a power balance, but now he's defi­nitely calling the shots. 
"I don't think I'm ready for that kind of commitment yet." 
"As you wish." He smiled with understanding. "But let me just say this. It's not going to be easy, but nothing I've seen so far suggests there's any physical reason why you can't have a child. We just need to get you in touch with the energy centers in your body. Rightness flows from that." 
It was possible that she was just in the mall. It was a big place—some of the cavernous stores were so well-shielded with radio-noisy animated displays that they gonked any phones brought inside them. She could be with her girlfriends, trying on brassieres and having a real bonding moment. 
But there was no naturally occurring phenomenon associated with the mall that nailed R Peeds with bolts of lightning. 
He approached the R Peeds cautiously, using his copper’s override to make the dumb little positronic brain in the emergency exit nearest their last known position open up for him without tipping off the building’s central brain. 
He crept along a service corridor, heading for a door that exited into the mall. He put one hand on the doorknob and the other on his badge, took a deep breath and stepped out. 
A mall security guard nearly jumped out of his skin as he emerged. He reached for his pepper-spray and Arturo swept it out of his hand as he flipped his badge up and showed it to the man. “Police,” said, in the cop-voice, the one that worked on everyone except his daughter and his ex-wife and the bloody robots. 
“Miss Moran!” said Dr. Quelton solicitously. “Will you allow me to give you a mild sedative?” 
“No!” she gasped. “No—I want to go home!” 
“I’ll telephone for the taxi,” suggested Captain Grey. “He wasn’t coming back until half past five.” 
“Unfortunately we have no telephone,” said the doctor; “but I’ll drive Miss Moran home.” 
“No! I want to walk.” 
“Not in this rain,” the doctor protested, “and in your overwrought condition.” 
“I must!” She got up, the tears still streaming down her cheeks. “I must!” she said wildly. “Let me go! Please let me go!” 
The doctor turned to Captain Grey. In the midst of her unutterable misery and confusion, Lexy still heard and understood what he was saying. 
“In a case of hysteria—better to humor her—the exercise and the fresh air may help her.” 
The doctor’s wife helped Lexy with her hat and coat. She was very gentle, very kind, and genuinely concerned for her unhappy little guest. Lexy remembered afterward that Mrs. Quelton kissed her; but at the moment nothing mattered except to get away, to get out of that house into the fresh air. 
“Could.” Danny sucked on his cigarette and blew out a stream of smoke. “But he got in some legal difficulty. Spent too much on lawyers and had to file chapter eleven. Otherwise, totally.” 
“You know how to do it, though?” Simon asked. 
“Hell, yeah. I would love to see those pigs squeal. We’re living in a police state. They’re tightening the screws all the time, moni- toring what we say, where we go. Mass surveillance, like she said.” 
He turned to me. “Would you do it?” 
Suddenly, everyone was looking at me. 
“Do what?” 
Danny sat forward, his elbows on his knees, giving me a hyp- notic stare. “Let’s say it’s all set up. You’re standing there, holding the key fob in your hand. You can pick your time, then press that button and whoomp, the cruiser’s a ball of flames. Would you do it?” 
Danny’s eyes were drilling into me. If I said no, the conversa- tion would be over. He’d tell me he was just kidding and send me on my way, like Cemil. If I said yes and he was wearing a wire, I would be incriminating myself. 
"She'll mind when she's spoken to, biddable or not," remarked Miranda with a shake of the last towel. 
Miranda Sawyer had a heart, of course, but she had never used it for any other purpose than the pumping and circulating of blood. She was just, conscientious, economical, industrious; a regular attendant at church and Sunday-school, and a member of the State Missionary and Bible societies, but in the presence of all these chilly virtues you longed for one warm little fault, or lacking that, one likable failing, something to make you sure she was thoroughly alive. She had never had any education other than that of the neighborhood district school, for her desires and ambitions had all pointed to the management of the house, the farm, and the dairy. Jane, on the other hand, had gone to an academy, and also to a boarding-school for young ladies; so had Aurelia; and after all the years that had elapsed there was still a slight difference in language and in manner between the elder and the two younger sisters. 
I supposed I should have been spending some time figuring out how to escape, but I was too goddamn tired. And besides, with Arthur and Pilar and Halliday and Checker all snarled up in this, I rated the probability of being able to walk anonymously away at something very close to zero. 
How had we ended up working with the government? Oh, right. Arthur. 
After leaving me to sit and glaze over for a few hours, Jones came in and leaned against the wall across from me. “Cas Russell,” she said. 
Well, fuck. Not that there had been much chance they would miss that. Even if Halliday had kept her mouth shut, which she probably hadn’t thought to do, it was a very small leap for them to start making a few phone calls about me to certain disreputable people. If only I were a six-foot-tall white guy—they would’ve had a list of names way too long to check. Being a foot shorter, brown, and female meant a few questions in the right corners would get them a correct ID, even from people I’d never met. 
“Let’s not find out,” I answered. “Think you can cling to the back of a motorcycle?” 
“I’m game to try.” He leaned heavily on my shoulder and we started a semi-coordinated hobble across the pavement. 
As we limped away, my brain itched uncomfortably, as if I were forgetting something important. My mind reached, searched, trying to recall... 
Eh, I’d remember it eventually, whatever it was. 
It took forty-eight hours for most vital services to get restored in Southern California, and almost two weeks for Los Angeles to approach something akin to normal. Twenty-nine people died and hundreds were injured during the rioting; the number of people who died from the EMP knocking out medical devices was several times that. Whatever numbers game Pithica thought they were playing, they had a lot to do to make up for this one. 
And they wouldn’t be able to. At least not for a good while. We’d made sure of that. 
I still wasn’t sure whether we should be proud of what we’d done or not. I tried not to think about it too hard, and to remind myself every so often of what Pithica had done to people like Reginald and Leena Kingsley. And to Courtney Polk, the client I hadn’t been able to rescue in the end. 
“Right,” Anda said. She set her character off for the doorway. Lucy brushed past her. 
“I’ll be glad when we’re done with this—that was bugfuck nutso.” She opened the door and her character disappeared in a fireball that erupted from directly overhead. A door-curse, a serious one, one that cooked her in her armor in seconds. 
“SHIT!” Lucy said in her headset. 
Anda giggled. “Teach you to go rushing into things,” she said. She used up a couple scrying scrolls making sure that there was nothing else in the cottage save for millions of shirts and thousands of unarmed noob avatars that she’d have to mow down like grass to finish out the mission. 
She descended upon them like a reaper, swinging her sword heedlessly, taking five or six out with each swing. When she’d been a noob in the game, she’d had to endure endless fighting practice, “grappling” with piles of leaves and other nonlethal targets, just to get enough experience points to have a chance of hitting anything. This was every bit as dull. 
"What?" 
"That's my dad's middle name. I want to name him Max. It's an old family tradition." 
"And what if it's a girl? Don't say Maxine or I'll divorce you before you even make an honest woman of me." 
"Nope. If it's a girl, then you get to pick." 
"For the most part. Power corrupts, of course, but it attracts the corrupt, too. There's a certain kind of person who grows up wanting to be a Securitat officer." 
"And me?" 
"You?" 
"I would do this too?" 
"You catch on fast." 
The outside wall of Campus was imposing. Tall, sheathed in seamless metal painted uniform grey. Nothing grew for several yards around it, as though the world was shrinking back from it. 
How did Zbigkrot get off campus? 
That's a question that should have occurred to him when he left the campus. He was embarrassed that it took him this long to come up with it. But it was a damned good question. Trying to force the gate -- what was it the old Brother on the gate had said? Pressurized, blowouts, the walls rigged to come down in an instant. 
If zbigkrot had left, he'd walked out, the normal way, while someone at the gate watched him go. And he'd left no record of it. Someone, working on Campus, had altered the stream of data fountaining off the front gate to remove the record of it. There was more than one forger there -- it hadn't just been zbigkrot working for the Securitat. 
He snuffled back his snot and ground at the tears in his eyes. 
“Arturo?” Natalie said. 
He held Ada to him. 
“Not this way,” he said. 
“Not what way?” Natalie asked. She was crying too, now. 
“Not by kidnapping us, not by dragging us away from our homes and lives. You’ve told me what you have to tell me, and I will think about it, but I won’t leave my home and my mother and my job and move to the other side of the world. I won’t . I will think about it. You can give me a way to get in touch with you and I’ll let you know what I decide. And Ada will come with me.” 
“No!” Ada said. “I’m going with Mom.” She pulled away from him and ran to her mother. 
“You don’t get a vote, daughter. And neither does she. She gave up her vote 12 years ago, and you’re too young to get one.” 
“I fucking HATE you,” Ada screamed, her eyes bulging, her neck standing out in cords. “HATE YOU!” 
Natalie gathered her to her bosom, stroked her black curls. 
One robot put its arms around Natalie’s shoulders and gave her a squeeze. The three of them, robot, wife and daughter, looked like a family for a moment. 
"So they wanted to prove that they shouldn't be treated like terrorists," Charles shouted back, "so they acted like terrorists? So they committed terrorism?" 
I boiled. 
"Oh for Christ's sake. Committed terrorism? They showed that universal surveillance was more dangerous than terrorism. Look at what happened in the park last weekend. Those people were dancing and listening to music. How is that terrorism?" 
The teacher crossed the room and stood before me, looming over me until I shut up. "Marcus, you seem to think that nothing has changed in this country. You need to understand that the bombing of the Bay Bridge changed everything. Thousands of our friends and relatives lie dead at the bottom of the Bay. This is a time for national unity in the face of the violent insult our country has suffered --" 
I stood up. I'd had enough of this "everything has changed" crapola. "National unity? The whole point of America is that we're the country where dissent is welcome. We're a country of dissidents and fighters and university dropouts and free speech people." 
“Come on,” TALK NERDY said. “We’re all getting together on the top floor. Take the stairs.” 
Felix found he was holding his breath. 
“If there’s a bioagent in the building, we’re all infected,” TALK NERDY said. “Just go, we’ll meet you there.” 
“There’s one on the sixth floor,” Felix said, as he climbed to his feet. 
“Will, yeah, we got him. He’s up there.” 
TALK NERDY was one of the Bastard Operators From Hell who’d unplugged the big routers. Felix and Van climbed the stairs slowly, their steps echoing in the deserted shaft. After the frigid air of the cage, the stairwell felt like a sauna. 
There was a cafeteria on the top floor, with working...  machine food. There was an uneasy queue of sysadmins before each. No one met anyone’s eye. Felix wondered which one was Will and then he joined the vending machine queue. 
He got a couple more energy bars and a gigantic...  out of change. Van had scored them some table space and Felix set the stuff down before him and got in the toilet line. “Just save some for me,” he said, tossing an energy bar in front of Van. 
"In the court-room." 
"And before, during the separation?" 
"Same thing," Grampa said. 
"And after, during visitations?" 
"Not then," Grampa said, loudly. "Not during visitations." 
"I've got the logfiles, Grampa," Sean said. 
"What the hell do a twelve-year-old and a grown man have to talk about? I kept him fed. I took him out to the carny and to kiddee movies. I drove him to hockey." 
"You switched off , Grampa," Sean said. "The you that counted wasn't there." 
"Sophistry," Grampa said. "Bullshit. I remember all of it. I was there. Not many other parents were, let me tell you. Usually, it was just me and a few others in the stands, or kids running around loose like animals at the carny. Your father has nothing to complain about." 
"Why, aren't you two looking excited?" Adele said, hobbling alongside of the table. She was leaning on Ethan, a vigorous old man with sinewy arms and dead eyes. His face was unlined, free from smile lines and frowning creases. 
"Hi, Adele," Sean said, trying to keep the exasperation out of his voice. 
"It was kind of a gold net bag with a chain," said Mrs. Perkins, "and there was five ten-dollar gold pieces in it. Herbert Dunn's was put in a fine leather wallet." 
"How long is Rebecca goin' to stay at the farm?" asked Delia. 
"Till they get over Hannah's bein' married, and get the house to runnin' without her," answered Mrs. Perkins. "It seems as if Hannah might 'a' waited a little longer. Aurelia was set against her goin' away while Rebecca was at school, but she's obstinate as a mule, Hannah is, and she just took her own way in spite of her mother. She's been doin' her sewin' for a year; the awfullest coarse cotton cloth she had, but she's nearly blinded herself with fine stitchin' and rufflin' and tuckin'. Did you hear about the quilt she made? It's white, and has a big bunch o' grapes in the centre, quilted by a thimble top. Then there's a row of circle-borderin' round the grapes, and she done them the size of a spool. The next border was done with a sherry glass, and the last with a port glass, an' all outside o' that was solid stitchin' done in straight rows; she's goin' to exhibit it at the county fair." 
forming a rough edged circle. 
"I found the engineers," Rodriguez says slowly, still looking at the floor. He jabs a thumb at the room he has just left. "They're in there. All of them, I think." 
Without thinking, Ray's mind surveys the enclosure in question, calculates dimensions, converts that to surface area, then volume of a rectangle in cubic feet. Then he holds that figure up against the number of empty workstations he's seen in this vast room and the mental image of the approximate size of your average human being. There is no way he can see to divide the one figure by the other and come up with a reasonable solution for fitting all those people in that bit of space. The numbers just don't work. 
But Rodriguez has left the door ajar, so he goes to see. 
And the numbers do work after all, but not in any way that could be considered reasonable.  What he thinks about when he looks inside is monkey bread. When he was a boy of eight or ten, his mother discovered a recipe for an interesting confection identified as monkey bread. It was essentially a bland biscuit dish, seasoned with cinnamon and sugar, lathered in butter and a corn syrup, brown sugar paste that made it perfectly, yummily sticky. To make it, you used the biscuits that came in cans, twisted the dough into interesting, tormented shapes and packed them tightly into a bunt cake pan. After baking and soaking in the brown sugar syrup, what you eventually had was something like a cake, but also like a puzzle. Golden brown breading marbled with sugary veins, so that when you picked a piece out with your fingers, it came out whole, 
“You know I speak the truth,” she spat, responding to my thoughts again rather than to my comeback. “You consider yourself intelligent, yet you would be willing to let so many millions suffer and be killed, because you have the gall to judge that they should, because we are somehow evil for helping them.” 
I heard a noise at the door and glanced over, but it wasn’t Rio, only one of Dawna’s paramilitary troops. “Track down the programmer,” she ordered him. “He’ll have driven west from Yucca Valley. Check electronics stores along the edge of the blackout zone for break-ins; he’ll need a computer. This is our top priority—put everybody on it.” 
He nodded smartly and left again. 
Shit. Checker. My stomach curdled in dread. 
“Oh, dispense with the drama,” Dawna said disgustedly. “They’re not going to kill him. Your co-conspirator has some skill; he’s already been deemed to be useful enough to come and work for us.” 
The dread froze into horror. 
“I grow tired of your judgment,” snapped Dawna. 
And I couldn’t expect any backup on this one. Rio would never be able to get here fast enough, and the Lancer had already proven his ability to hide from Checker, even if Checker and Arthur would be willing to come after me—and if it was just me in the crosshairs, I didn’t think it all that likely they’d be motivated to do a damn thing. Not when the reason this was all going wrong was my own insistence on hounding after Martinez; not when I’d been the one to put her at risk. Not when this was all my own fuckup. 
I could almost hear Arthur saying something about consequences. 
So be it. 
I called Tegan and got him to mock up cards and documents in four identities: a solid set of papers for Rita Martinez in a new name that she could use to disappear, and then some cards in the names of Rita Martinez, Cassandra Russell, and the alias Checker had used for me the first time we’d dangled me in front of the Lancer. I’d have to come up with ways people on the run would plausibly use those cards. Maybe an emergency ATM withdrawal somewhere, or a mixture of plane tickets to all different cities as if we were trying to get people off our trail—only I’d use a library terminal that could be traced back, and check out border crossings into Mexico at the same time. More ATM withdrawals to get cash, maybe a credit card used to reserve a rental car... 
Did I want to undergo this deeply invasive procedure at the hands of Alex Goddard? The very thought left a dull ache in my stomach. 
While Marcelina bandaged her and began preparing her for return to wherever she'd been, he turned off the systems, then closed their "stone" cabinets. 
I thought back to some of the "hallucinations" Sarah had poured out. She'd mentioned the green mask, and she'd also relived some sinister event that seemed to her like disappear­ing down a long white tunnel. Was that her own anesthesia? Did he perform an in vitro on her too? 
I jumped as I heard the "bump, thump, bump" sound of the operating table being rolled out of the OR and back down the hall. For some reason I thought of the... Did Alex Goddard have plans to take me, only with drugs and medical sleight of hand? It wasn't going to happen. 
I switched off the monitor and turned to stare at the computers. Why were they here in this "place of miracles"? What did they hold? Maybe that was where I should be. . . . 
I avoided looking at them, my face heating. 
“Let’s try something else,” said Checker, and I tried not to feel like he was working to spare my feelings. He hit a few more keys, and Tresting’s second monitor lit up to show an array of photographs, mostly poor headshots. I realized they were driver’s license photos, women named Polk with the first name Dawna or Donna. I didn’t even know which way she spelled it. “Do you see her?” Checker asked. “If she backed up the alias with paperwork, I might be able to track it.” 
Eighty-seven photos had matched his search, and I took a good minute to scroll through them all, even though I didn’t need that long. After all, bone structures are only measurements, and measurements are only math. None of the eigenvectors of the feature sets were even close to Dawna’s, but I compared the isometric invariants anyway, delaying the conclusion I already knew was true. 
Dawna’s face wasn’t there. I shook my head. 
“Color me shocked,” murmured Tresting. 
My embarrassment was hardening into a cold fury. The anger gave me a focus, made it easier to think. “What about a picture?” I said. “Would that help?” 
“I don’t think he’s a real doctor—a physician, I mean,” said Lexy. She glanced around and saw that Mrs. Royce had gone. Springing up, she crossed the room to Captain Grey. “Has Mrs. Royce—has any one said anything to you?” she asked, almost in a whisper. 
“No!” answered the young man, startled. “Why? What’s up?” 
“Mrs. Royce says—I suppose I really ought to tell you.” 
“No doubt about it!” 
“Mrs. Royce says Dr. Quelton is crazy!” 
Captain Grey took the news very coolly. Lexy observed that he suppressed a smile. 
“Oh, that!” he said. “But you know, Miss Moran, in these little villages any one who’s at all out of the ordinary is called crazy. I’ve noticed it before. I can soon find out for myself, though, can’t I? I thought, if you didn’t want me this morning, I’d go over there—pay a call, you know. I understand it’s three miles from here, so I shouldn’t be very long. I’d come back here for lunch.” 
“But, Captain Grey, you mustn’t think I expect you to—” 
“It’s not that,” he said. “Only you said you’d let me help you in your little job, and I want to!” He smiled down at her. “So,” he said, “I’ll be back for lunch;” and off he went. 
Van made a face. "That's a nasty part of the Tenderloin." I couldn't argue with her. That part of San Francisco is one of the weird bits -- you go in through the Hilton's front entrance and it's all touristy stuff like the cable-car turnaround and family restaurants. Go through to the other side and you're in the 'Loin, where every tracked out transvestite hooker, hard-case pimp, hissing drug dealer and cracked up homeless person in town was concentrated. What they bought and sold, none of us were old enough to be a part of (though there were plenty of hookers our age plying their trade in the 'Loin.) 
"Look on the bright side," I said. "The only time you want to go up around there is broad daylight. None of the other players are going to go near it until tomorrow at the earliest. This is what we in the ARG business call a monster head start ." 
Jolu grinned at me. "You make it sound like a good thing," he said. 
"Beats eating uni," I said. 
"We going to talk or we going to win?" Van said. After me, she was hands-down the most hardcore player in our group. She took winning very, very seriously. 
The summer term at Wareham had ended, and Huldah Meserve, Dick Carter, and Living Perkins had finished school, leaving Rebecca and Emma Jane to represent Riverboro in the year to come. Delia Weeks was at home from Lewiston on a brief visit, and Mrs. Robinson was celebrating the occasion by a small and select party, the particular day having been set because strawberries were ripe and there was a rooster that wanted killing. Mrs. Robinson explained this to her husband, and requested that he eat his dinner on the carpenter's bench in the shed, as the party was to be a ladies' affair. 
"All right; it won't be any loss to me," said Mr. Robinson. "Give me beans, that's all I ask. When a rooster wants to be killed, I want somebody else to eat him, not me!" 
Mrs. Robinson had company only once or twice a year, and was generally much prostrated for several days afterward, the struggle between pride and parsimony being quite too great a strain upon her. It was necessary, in order to maintain her standing in the community, to furnish a good "set out," yet the extravagance of the proceeding goaded her from the first moment she began to stir the marble cake to the moment when the feast appeared upon the table. 
“Don’t ask me , Miss Moran!” replied Mrs. Royce. “It beats me!” 
There was a silence. 
“But ain’t you going upstairs to see what she wants?” inquired Mrs. Royce anxiously. 
Captain Grey sprang to his feet. 
“Good God!” he shouted. “What are you talking about?” 
Mrs. Royce backed into a corner, regarding him with alarm. 
“I jest thought you’d like to talk to her,” she faltered. 
“Do you mean she’s not dead ?” 
“Dead? Oh, my goodness gracious me!” cried Mrs. Royce. “I never—” 
“Wait here,” Lexy told the captain. 
“No!” he replied. “I must—” 
But, disregarding him, Lexy turned to Mrs. Royce. 
“Let me see her,” she said. 
Mrs. Royce led the way upstairs. She went at an unusual rate of speed, so that she was panting when she reached the top. 
“Kind of vi’lent!” she whispered, pointing downstairs, where Captain Grey was. 
“This room?” asked Lexy. “Shall I go in?” 
“Well,” said Mrs. Royce, “seems to me I’d knock, if I was you.” 
Knock on the door of the room where Mrs. Quelton lay? Knock, and expect an answer from that voice? It seemed to Lexy, for a moment, that she could not raise her hand. 
I laughed. The sound was weird, and it drew me back into my body, back to the present. I laughed and laughed. I'd had the worst that they could throw at me, and I'd survived it, and I'd beaten them , beaten them for months, showed them up as chumps and despots. I'd won . 
I let my bladder cut loose. It was sore and full anyway, and no time like the present. 
The ocean swept me away. 
When morning came, two efficient, impersonal guards cut the bindings off of my wrists and ankles. I still couldn't walk -- when I stood, my legs gave way like a stringless marionette's. Too much time in one position. The guards pulled my arms over their shoulders and half-dragged/half-carried me down the familiar corridor. The bar codes on the doors were curling up and dangling now, attacked by the salt air. 
I got an idea. "Ange!" I yelled. "Darryl!" I yelled. My guards yanked me along faster, clearly disturbed but not sure what to do about it. "Guys, it's me, Marcus! Stay free!" 
Behind one of the doors, someone sobbed. Someone else cried out in what sounded like Arabic. Then it was cacophony, a thousand different shouting voices. 
“Oh? You have something to say?” 
Don’t hurt her. Oh, God. 
“Mathematics should be shared, don’t you agree?” the Lancer said carelessly. “Oh, I forgot. You’re only in this for the money. Playing both ends against the middle. You don’t care.” The meditation balls stopped, and he was suddenly a lot closer, half-crouching, half-sitting so his face was near mine. “People like you are the scum of humanity. You don’t care about the field, about what humanity can discover. You’re only in it for your payday. Perelman would weep.” 
I would have liked to point out that he’d been planning on using Halliday’s proof for his own ends as well, and that he was almost certainly going to steal the fame and million-dollar prize from Martinez by convincing the world—and maybe even himself—that it was his own work. He was a delusional hypocrite. 
But then, he wasn’t entirely wrong about me. 
He stood back up. I pushed my vocal cords until I thought I would choke myself, straining to the breaking point, and managed a few unintelligible sounds. 
Dammit. Not this again. Maybe I could make him understand. “Look, I know you don’t like Rio—” 
“No.” He rubbed his forehead with one hand, like someone with a migraine coming on. “Well, yeah, that’s an issue. But it ain’t him, Russell. It’s you.” 
Something constricted inside me. “What does that mean?” 
He took a deep breath. “Life is cheap to you.” 
I started to get angry. “Those snipers had rifles pointed at us. It was self-defense.” 
“Yeah, and why was that? Your little trick with the hunk of wood? Violence ain’t always the best choice, you know. If you didn’t—” 
“We don’t know he was going to tell them to let us go,” I countered, bristling. “Maybe he was going to give the order to shoot on sight instead. Did you ever think of that?” 
“Maybe,” said Tresting, “and maybe we could’ve got out of there without anyone hurt at all if we just walked away. Without anyone else dying. And without another dozen eyewitnesses fingering us for a crime.” 
“You don’t know that,” I argued. “Any of it could have gone either way. And I did just save both our lives— again —so a little gratitude might be in order!” 
"So I did," I said. 
"Are you going to Ms Galvez's hearing on Monday?" 
"Totally." I'd introduced Ange to Ms Galvez a couple weeks before, when my old teacher invited me over for dinner. The teacher's union had gotten a hearing for her before the board of the Unified School District to argue for getting her old job back. They said that Fred Benson was coming out of (early) retirement to testify against her. I was looking forward to seeing her again. 
"Do you want to go get a burrito?" 
"Totally." 
"Let me get my hot-sauce," she said. 
I checked my email one more time -- my PirateParty email, which still got a dribble of messages from old Xnetters who hadn't found my Coalition of Voters address yet. 
The latest message was from a throwaway email address from one of the new Brazilian anonymizers. 
> Found her, thanks. You didn't tell me she was so h4wt. 
"Who's that from?" 
I laughed. "Zeb," I said. "Remember Zeb? I gave him Masha's email address. I figured, if they're both underground, might as well introduce them to one another." 
“Exactly,” I agreed. “Which means you know something.” 
He sipped his drink. “On the whole, I know very little. Far less than I would like. What I do know suggests Arthur Tresting is more correct than not.” 
“ What?” 
“I, too, have followed some unusual patterns. What interests me more,” he continued, “is who made such a concerted effort to draw you into this. That, I think, is a question worth answering.” 
I was still trying to take in the fact that he didn’t think Tresting was a raving lunatic. “I take it you didn’t call Dawna Polk ever,” I said slowly. 
“No. In fact, I have no idea who that is.” 
“Courtney Polk,” I explained. “The girl I mentioned before, the one I got out. Kid who says she ‘accidentally’ became a drug mule for the Colombians. She got caught, the Colombians threw her in a basement, and then her sister Dawna contacted me and said that you called her and told her to hire me.” 
“Yet I never made such a call. Interesting.” 
“Did you see Courtney in there?” 
“I remember thinking her rather stupid.” His voice was matter-of-fact. “It did not occur to me that she would be worth risking my other goals for.” 
“No,” she said. 
“All right,” he said. 
He looked at the Social Harmony man, who wasn’t smirking, just watching curiously. 
“Leonard MacPherson,” he said, “it is my duty as a UNATS Detective Third Grade to inform you that you are under arrest for trade in contraband positronics. You have the following rights: to a trial per current rules of due process; to be free from self-incrimination in the absence of a court order to the contrary; to consult with a Social Harmony advocate; and to a speedy arraignment. Do you understand your rights?” 
Ada actually giggled, which spoiled the moment, but he felt better for having said it. The Social Harmony man gave the smallest disappointed shake of his head and turned away to prod at a small, sleek computer. 
“You went to Ottawa six months ago,” the Social Harmony man said. “When we picked up your daughter, we thought it was she who’d gone, but it appears that you were the one carrying her phone. You’d thoughtfully left the trace in place on that phone, so we didn’t have to refer to the logs in cold storage, they were already online and ready to be analyzed. 
The voice said, "I'm sorry, but I'm afraid that that's not my business. I'm in maintenance. If you have a concern about HR policy, you'll need to take it up with them." 
I thought about my HR Sergeant in Basic, and tried to imagine telling him that I didn't want my watch to talk to me anymore, and nearly jumped out of my skin. "That's OK," I said. "My lunch is almost over. I'll try them after my shift." 
The voice said, "Thank you for calling Maintenance! Have a nice day!" Then my watch told me it was time to get in the truck and start driving again. 
Vasquez kept looking at me all day like I was some kind of crazy. 
Hi Mom! 
Tell Buddy he doesn't have to keep on calling me to say thanks. I'm just glad that he and Carla are all right. Tell him to enjoy his promotion! 
When I got to the office this morning, I found Rhindquist wearing his old-fashioned pusher's uniform. I hadn't seen it since the day we met. I was surprised by how normal he looked in it: he could have been any pusher. 
"Well, aren't you dressed for success?" I asked him ironically. 
Adele clapped her hands. "Well isn't that nice ! Three generations, all together. Sean, you'll have to introduce Ethan and I to your father. Ethan never had children, isn't that right?" 
Ethan said, "Yes." 
"Always the bachelor, my boy. But it wasn't for lack of opportunity. You had to beat them off with a stick, didn't you, son?" 
Ethan said, "Yes." 
"I always hoped for a grandchild to hold, but you have to let your children live their own lives, isn't that right, Brice?" 
"Yes," Grampa said, with a kind of horrified fascination. 
"Ethan was always too busy for romance." 
"Yes," Ethan said. 
"Working and working and working for that transcription service. You must have typed a million words. Did you ever count them, Ethan?" 
"Yes," Ethan said. "I typed roughly fifteen million words." 
"Nowadays, of course, no one types. It's all talking to computers now. When I was a girl, they all said that you'd always have a job if you just learned to type. Times sure change, don't they?" 
"Yes," Ethan and Grampa said together. Grampa startled like he'd been shocked. 
Rebecca had wrestled, struggled, perspired in vain. When her turn came to read she was obliged to confess she had written nothing. 
"You have at least two lines, Rebecca," insisted the teacher, "for I see them on your slate." 
"I'd rather not read them, please; they are not good," pleaded Rebecca. 
"Read what you have, good or bad, little or much; I am excusing nobody." 
Dick Carter's head disappeared under the desk, while Living Perkins choked with laughter. 
Miss Dearborn laughed too; she was little more than a girl, and the training of the young idea seldom appealed to the sense of humor. 
"You must stay after school and try again, Rebecca," she said, but she said it smilingly. "Your poetry hasn't a very nice idea in it for a good little girl who ought to love duty." 
"It wasn't MY idea," said Rebecca apologetically. 
"That is better," Miss Dearborn answered, "though I cannot think 'going to smash' is a pretty expression for poetry." 
Having been instructed in the use of the indefinite pronoun "one" as giving a refined and elegant touch to literary efforts, Rebecca painstakingly rewrote her composition on solitude, giving it all the benefit of Miss Dearborn's suggestion. 
“And yet,” thought Miss Moran, “somehow Caroline has been carrying on with some one, without even me finding out! I didn’t know she had it in her!” 
She was half asleep when the sound of Mrs. Enderby’s voice in the hall brought her to her feet. It was a penetrating voice, with a trace of foreign accent, and it was not a voice that Lexy loved. She went out of the library into the hall. 
“Did you enjoy—” she began politely, and then stopped short. “But where’s Caroline?” she cried. 
“Caroline? But at home, of course,” answered Mrs. Enderby. 
“At home? Here?” 
“But certainly! She had a headache. At the last moment she decided not to go with us. You were not here when we left, Miss Moran.” 
“I know,” murmured Lexy. “I had just run out to the drug store; but—” 
“She went directly to bed,” Mrs. Enderby continued. “I thought, however, that she would have sent for you during the course of the evening.” 
“Oh, I see!” said Lexy casually. 
At heart, however, she was curiously uneasy. Mr. Enderby stopped for a moment, to give her some kindly...  Then he and his wife ascended the stairs, followed by Lexy; and with every step her uneasiness grew. She was sure that Caroline would have sent for her if she had been in the house. 
He hadn’t thought of Kelly or 2.0 in days. He dropped to his knees and retched again. Out here in the real world, his family was dead. Everyone he knew was dead. He just wanted to lie down on the sidewalk and wait to die, too. 
Van’s rough hands slipped under his armpits and hauled weakly at him. “Not now,” he said. “Once we’re safe inside somewhere and we’ve eaten something, then and then you can do this, but not now. Understand me, Felix? Not fucking now.” 
The profanity got through to him. He got to his feet. His knees were trembling. 
“Just a block more,” Van said, and slipped Felix’s arm around his shoulders and led him along. 
“Thank you, Van. I’m sorry.” 
“No sweat,” he said. “You need a shower, bad. No offense.” 
“None taken.” 
The Shoppers had a metal security gate, but it had been torn away from the front windows, which had been rudely smashed. Felix and Van squeezed through the gap and stepped into the dim drug-store. A few of the displays were knocked over, but other than that, it looked OK. By the cash-registers, Felix spotted the racks of candy bars at the same instant that Van saw them, and they hurried over and grabbed a handful each, stuffing their faces. 
“Good morning!” he said. “I say, I’m sorry I didn’t wait for you a bit longer, Miss Moran.” 
“I’m glad you didn’t,” said Lexy. “I’d have felt awfully guilty.” 
“I went out to telephone,” he explained. “Thought I’d tell Muriel I was here, you know; but they have no telephone. Dashed odd, isn’t it, for a doctor not to have a telephone in the house?” 
“I don’t think he’s a real doctor—a physician, I mean,” said Lexy. She glanced around and saw that Mrs. Royce had gone. Springing up, she crossed the room to Captain Grey. “Has Mrs. Royce—has any one said anything to you?” she asked, almost in a whisper. 
“No!” answered the young man, startled. “Why? What’s up?” 
“Mrs. Royce says—I suppose I really ought to tell you.” 
“No doubt about it!” 
“Mrs. Royce says Dr. Quelton is crazy!” 
Captain Grey took the news very coolly. Lexy observed that he suppressed a smile. 
“Oh, that!” he said. “But you know, Miss Moran, in these little villages any one who’s at all out of the ordinary is called crazy. I’ve noticed it before. I can soon find out for myself, though, can’t I? I thought, if you didn’t want me this morning, I’d go over there—pay a call, you know. I understand it’s three miles from here, so I shouldn’t be very long. I’d come back here for lunch.” 
“At once!” he repeated. “I shall send your bag this afternoon.” 
“I don’t care!” said Lexy to herself. “I’ll come back!” 
She did not wish to have her bag sent after her. She packed it in great haste, put on her hat and coat, and, opening the door of her room, stepped out cautiously and looked up and down the corridor. There was no one in sight, so she picked up her bag and set forth. 
She was running away—worse than that, she was being driven away; but just at the moment she could see no other course open to her. She could not appeal to Captain Grey while he was in such distracting anxiety about his sister. It would be cruel, and it would be useless. What could he do? If Dr. Quelton did not want her in his house, certainly his brother-in-law could not insist upon her staying. 
“No!” she reflected. “He would only think it was his duty as a gentleman to leave with me, and he would be miserable, not knowing what became of his sister. I’ve got to go, that’s all; but, by jiminy, I’ll come back! And then we’ll see how much more wanton mischief this irresponsible child can manage!” 
I know someone with a car we can use.” 
“You think he’ll let you borrow his car?” 
“And share the driving. It’s a long trip.” 
“He’s trustworthy?” 
“It’s a she, actually. I’d trust her with my life.” 
“Maybe you would, but I don’t know her.” Then I realized who it was. “It’s that purple-haired girl.” 
“Her name is Bree.” 
“You realize you’d be putting her at risk, right? Are you sure you want to do that?” 
“She’d totally be up for it. She was talking about how unfair those arrests were before I even heard about it.” 
“I didn’t see her at the protest.” 
“Maybe you just weren’t paying attention.” 
“She was there?” 
“Yes, she was there, tabling for the Solidarity Committee. “ “Oh great, those people who decided to own the cause. They just want to get on television.” 
“You’re not being very rational about this.” 
If there’s one thing that makes me see red, it’s a man telling me I’m not being rational. If he was going to add a stupid crack about PMS I would deck him, I thought, my fists already clenched. 
"I don't think that I am. Not at all." 
"I'd worry if you thought you were." 
"It was bad, wasn't it? I mean, they didn't just kill him, not accidentally or even gently. Amah wouldn't give me any details, any of the truth, except to say that he was dead. But I know it must have been terrible, because she would have said so otherwise. And when I tried to ask her more about it, to give me something to comfort the other children with, she sent me to my room like a little girl. She doesn't want me to know. She thinks she's protecting me. But I don't need protection; I need to know." 
"Becker will catch whoever did this, I can promise you that." 
Emma scowls, her eyes turn hard. "You're just like Amah." 
"Maybe she's right. Not that you need protection, of course, but just that there are some things it's better not to know. You always hear people say that imagining is worse than the reality, no matter how horrible the truth might be. It's been my experience that the only people who say that are folks who have never seen anything truly horrible." 
"I can't see Rebecca as a lady doctor, somehow," mused Mrs. Cobb. "Her gift o' gab is what's goin' to be the makin' of her; mebbe she'll lecture, or recite pieces, like that Portland elocutionist that come out here to the harvest supper." 
"I guess she'll be able to write down her own pieces," said Mr. Cobb confidently; "she could make 'em up faster 'n she could read 'em out of a book." 
"It's a pity she's so plain looking," remarked Mrs. Cobb, blowing out the candle. 
"PLAIN LOOKING, mother?" exclaimed her husband in astonishment. "Look at the eyes of her; look at the hair of her, an' the smile, an' that there dimple! Look at Alice Robinson, that's called the prettiest child on the river, an' see how Rebecca shines her ri' down out o' sight! I hope Mirandy'll favor her comin' over to see us real often, for she'll let off some of her steam here, an' the brick house'll be consid'able safer for everybody concerned. We've known what it was to hev children, even if 't was more 'n thirty years ago, an' we can make allowances." 
"I have to tell you, I'm not overly impressed thus far with your 'program,' " I said. "First I passed out in your clinic, and then my doctor in New York told me those drugs Ramala gave me are highly illegal, and for good reason." 
"What is 'legal' is more often than not the judgment of medical reactionaries." He dismissed the issue with a wave of his hand. "My work has moved far beyond anything the FDA has ever dreamed of." Then his look turned grave. "I hope you'll give me a chance to try to help you. I've been giving your case a lot of thought since our first examination, about what we should do. But first let me ask you . . . do you have a partner who could come here soon?" 
Okay, maybe the thing to do was appear to play along for a while, move under his radar, and then get Sarah and split. 
"It's a possibility." 
He smiled again. "Excellent. If this person can come here to the clinic for a . . . deposit, then we could put you on a fast-track schedule." 
"One thing at a time. First I'd like to know exactly what it is you have in mind." Would his "program" include string­ing me out on the toad drug, the way he'd done with Sarah? 
"Don't tell the whole village about it, if we did," said the mother, interrupting the reminiscences of this experienced voyager. "Haven't I told you before," she whispered, in a last attempt at discipline, "that you shouldn't talk about night gowns and stockings and—things like that, in a loud tone of voice, and especially when there's men folks round?" 
"I know, mother, I know, and I won't. All I want to say is"—here Mr. Cobb gave a cluck, slapped the reins, and the horses started sedately on their daily task—"all I want to say is that it is a journey when"—the stage was really under way now and Rebecca had to put her head out of the window over the door in order to finish her sentence—"it IS a journey when you carry a nightgown!" 
The objectionable word, uttered in a high treble, floated back to the offended ears of Mrs. Randall, who watched the stage out of sight, gathered up her packages from the bench at the store door, and stepped into the wagon that had been standing at the hitching-post. As she turned the horse's head towards home she rose to her feet for a moment, and shading her eyes with her hand, looked at a cloud of dust in the dim distance. 
Maybe it's the mutilated corpse of the young boy chilling in Paraclete's morgue, but Becker does not seem prone to disbelieving. "So what does it all mean?" 
"I don't know." 
"It has to mean something," Becker rumbles, clearly unhappy with the parallels. "Your experience then, what's happening here. It has to be related. How could it not be?" 
Ray has been tripping over the same types of thoughts for the last hour or more, mostly trying to ignore them. 
He has no insights to offer. 
"Tell me about this thing Brezhnaya pulled out of the pool. What was it?"  "It was a shed," Ray says, his voice low. "The Ialdabaoth's shed." 
He hasn't spoken that word in years, and even now it chills him, a talisman of evil. 
"What is it? Where did it come from?" 
"Rich, I—" Ray spreads his arms, a gesture like pleading. "It's complicated, and I don't pretend to understand it. I don't even like to think about it." 
But Becker is implacable. He shakes his head at Ray's refusals, crosses his arms over his chest. "Well you'd better get used to thinking about it. We need to know what we're looking at here. We have to know how to combat something like this. Something that can kill with words, for God's sake. What it is, where it comes from, what it wants." 
She gestured at the large corner picture window that overlooked Broome Street and Grand Street. "Count the FOR SALE signs," she said. "I want to be on your side. That's a nice place. I'd like to see it go to someone like you, someone decent. Not some developer --" she spat the word like a curse "or some corporate apartment broker who'll rent it by the week to VIPs. This neighborhood needs real people who really live here, understand." 
"So you're saying I won't get what I paid for it?" 
She smiled fondly at him. "No, sweetheart, you're not going to get what you paid for it. All those things they told you when you put two mil into that place, like 'They're not making any more Manhattan' and 'Location location location'? It's lies." Her face got serious, sympathetic. "It's supposed to panic you and make you lose your head and spend more than you think something is worth. That goes on for a while and then everyone ends up with too much mortgage for not enough home, or for too much home for that matter, and then blooie, the bottom blows out of the market and everything falls down like a souffle." 
“You’re too good to us grunts, Mr President,” Van said. 
“Prime Minister,” he said. “And you’re no grunt, you’re the Deputy Prime Minister. You’re my designated ribbon-cutter and hander-out of oversized novelty checks.” 
It buoyed both of their spirits. Watching Popovich and Rosenbaum go, it buoyed them up. Felix knew then that they’d all be going soon. 
That had been pre-ordained by the fuel-supply, but who wanted to wait for the fuel to run out, anyway? 
› half my crew split this morning. 
Queen Kong typed. Google was holding up pretty good anyway, of course. The load on the servers was a lot lighter than it had been since the days when Google fit on a bunch of hand-built PCs under a desk at Stanford. 
› we’re down to a quarter. 
Felix typed back. It was only a day since Popovich and Rosenbaum left, but the traffic on the newsgroups had fallen down to near zero. He and Van hadn’t had much time to play Republic of Cyberspace. They’d been too busy learning the systems that Popovich had turned over to them, the big, big routers that had went on acting as the major interchange for all the network backbones in Canada. 
She said this because she thought it, and without the least calculation. She liked Mrs. Royce, and when she liked people she told them so. That was what made people love her. 
Mrs. Royce was completely won. 
“I’m real glad to do it for you,” she said. “I won’t bother you, neither, while you’re working. I know how it is with writing. My cousin, now—her husband was writing for the movies, an’ he was that upset if he was disturbed!” 
Still conversing with great affability, Mrs. Royce led the reluctant writer upstairs to the small room prepared for her, and shut her in. Lexy sat down in a chair before the workmanlike table, and grinned ruefully. She had said she was a writer, and now she had to be one. 
“Well,” she reflected, “here’s a chance to write to Mr. Houseman, anyhow.” 
She never had the least difficulty in writing letters. For one reason, she never bothered about them unless she had something to say, and then she said it, briefly and lucidly, and was done. She told Mr. Houseman all she knew about Caroline’s disappearance, and explained that she had gone out to Wyngate in the hope of picking up some trace of her. 
There weren’t any outlets in the closet, so I had to learn about wiring to run some conduit into my room. It was kind of fun figur- ing out how from YouTube videos and a library book. When I’m in my window nook, I get a great signal from a guy who leaves his wifi unprotected and can work there as late as I want. Tonight was going to be a long night. 
As Monica was bumbling around, brushing her teeth and get- ting stuff ready for the class she had to teach the next morning, 
I switched on one of my laptops, hopped on a server in Sweden, 
and logged in. I also checked my other laptop, the one that had been running facial recognition software. (Believe it or not, I had found it in the trash behind one of the dorms at the U. It was a little slow, and the cover had a crack in it, but it worked fine once I blew dust out the keyboard, wiped the system, and installed Ubuntu.) It had finished and some of the results that had risen to the top looked a lot like Zip. 
I quickly scanned the Group’s threads. There was a lot of chat- ter about a typhoon in Asia. The Group had members in the Philippines, so there was a lot of checking in going on, making sure people were okay, which they all were, though the pictures they were sharing were really scary. Call Me Cheese had flipped out about some grammar thing and started a big tangled brawl over whether it was okay to start a sentence with So. (Of course, 
“Why?” 
“I don’t know. Anyhow, she was married about two years ago, and a few months after her marriage she began writing oftener—almost every mail. She was always wanting me to come over here and see her; and lately, in her last letters, I—somehow I fancied she wanted me rather badly. It—it worried me, so I arranged for leave. On the very day when I wrote that I would be coming over this month, I had a letter from her, asking me not to make any plans for coming this year. She said she’d taken up her concert work again, and would be too busy to enjoy the visit, and so on. I’d already made my plans, you see, so I went ahead. Then, about a fortnight later, after she’d got my letter, I suppose, I had a cable. ‘Don’t come,’ it said. I cabled back, but she didn’t answer.” 
He looked anxiously at Lexy, but she said nothing. She sat very still, curled up in a big chair, staring into the fire with an odd look of uncertainty on her face. 
“You know,” he went on, “I’ve tried to think that she was simply too busy, or something of that sort. But, Miss Moran, didn’t this woman’s manner rather make you think there was something a bit—out of the way?” 
She heard the front door close and a step begin to mount the stairs, deliberate and heavy, in the quiet house. In haste she went at the pile of handkerchiefs. There were dozens of them, all of fine white linen, all with a “2” embroidered in one corner—very uninteresting handkerchiefs, Lexy thought; but halfway through the pile she came upon one that she had seen before. 
It was so familiar to her that at first she was not startled or even surprised. It was a handkerchief that she had embroidered for Caroline Enderby. 
She took it up and looked at it with a frown. Then she heard Dr. Quelton’s step in the hall outside. She tucked the handkerchief in her belt, and tried to close the drawer, but it stuck. Her heart was beating wildly, her knees felt weak. He would find her there, like a thief! 
But the footsteps went on past the door. She waited for a moment, and then went noiselessly across to the door, opened it, looked up and down the empty corridor, and ran, like a hare, back to her own room. 
"What's your name?" the boy asks. 
"Ray." 
The kid holds out his hand, a solemnly adult gesture. Ray shakes with him. "My name's John Robert. John Robert Rose. Do you want to watch with us?" 
Ray glances at Emma, rolls his shoulders. It isn't exactly what he was expecting, but he can think of worse ways to pass an hour. "It's Captain Shadow." 
"You can sit by me," John Robert says, scooting across the couch to make space. "You can watch too, Miss Emma, if you want. You might like Captain Shadow. He's smart, and he likes Princess Shemi, but he only kisses on her sometimes. But not in this one, I hope." 
"Kissing is gross," another boy pops in. "Why would he want to kiss her so much?" 
"I think kissing is dreamy. " This from a strawberry haired girl curled up on the floor with a doll and a plush  bear. "I like the kissing parts." 
John Robert rolls his eyes. "Adriana, you don't even know what 'dreamy' means." 
"I do so, John Robert." 
"Do not." 
"Yeah-huh." 
"He only kisses her 'cause her dad would have him put in prison if he blasted her. " A different boy this time, 
"Don't want it." 
"I'll kill your parents." The ebullient tone didn't change at all. 
"You'll kill everyone if Clarity is widely used." 
"You don't believe that. Clarity lets you choose the course that will make you happiest. Mass suicide won't make humanity happiest." 
"You don't know that." 
"Wanna bet?" 
"Why don't you kill yourself?" 
"Because dead, I'll never make things better." 
Ria was watching intently. She squeezed the hand she held. 
"Will you take it?" 
There was a long pause. 
Leon pressed on. "No deal unless you take it," he said. 
"You have some?" 
"I can make some. I'll need to talk to some lab-techs and download some of my research first." 
"Will you take it with me?" 
He didn't hesitate. "Never." 
"I'll take it," Viktor said, and hung up. 
Ria took his hand again. Leaned forward. Gave him a dry, firm kiss on the mouth. Leaned back. 
"Thank you," she said. 
"Don't thank me," he said. "I'm not doing you any favors." 
She stood up, pulling him to his feet. 
"Welcome to the team," she said. "Welcome to Viktor." 
"Tell you what, Tara, I think I'm out of here." I was re­turning the Betacam to its bag. Nothing I'd shot was remotely broadcast quality, but I did have proof of what was going on. My "undercover" investigation was making some head­way. 
"Okay." She sighed her expression increasingly glazed. 
I took one last look around the room, at the row of bas­sinets, then gave her a parting pat and headed for the exit. 
"Look," I said turning back as I reached the door. "Don't say anything to anybody about me being here tonight, okay? Can we just let it be our secret?" 
"Sure, whatever." She shrugged absently. Like, why not. 
"And Tara, do yourself a favor. Get out of this place." 
"But there's nowhere else I can go," she said sadness in her eyes. As I slowly closed the door, the last thing I heard was the sound of the Beethoven sonata dying away. 
What a day . . . and night. As I walked down the hallway carrying the camera bag, I tried to process my new informa­tion. I'd just seen some of the most incredibly lovable babies ever. That part of it was a beautiful experience, one that pulled at my heartstrings more strongly than I'd ever imag­ined something like that could. The part that troubled me was, the babies were so alike, so fair, and . . . they all could have been perfect siblings for Kevin and Rachel. 
“This whole thing was my idea,” I said. “You think we don’t know the risks? It should be our choice.” 
I couldn’t speak, too stunned by the betrayal. Shad was trust- worthy. Shad was respected. But I was just a kid, one who wasn’t allowed to carry out the plan that was her idea in the first place. 
“That’s a load of garbage,” Zeke said, crumpling up a piece of paper and throwing it at Ian’s head. 
Sarah took charge. “We still have a story to tell. Let’s download that film.” Jason hooked up a USB cable to Nikko’s shirt and copied the video file. We crowded around Sarah’s laptop. As the video started, two people were settling themselves at a table, one of them tall and black and wearing a really nice suit, the other short and white and in a suit that didn’t fit very well. 
“I know her,” I blurted out. “She was one of the cops who wanted to search our apartment. They didn’t have a warrant, so we told them to go away.” Sarah nodded approvingly as the man in the suit started with introductions. 
"Why don't you put an end to all the evil?" I yelled at him finally, trying to project through the rain. "Just stop it right now." 
" Baalum was my life's work," he said. Then he looked down at the knife a moment, as though unsure what it was. Finally he turned and flung it in the direction of the river. 
"It could have been beautiful," I said back. Thank God the knife was gone. But what would he do next? "But now—" 
"No," he said staring directly at me, his eyes seeming to plead. "It is. It will be again. To make a place like Baalum is to coin the riches of God. I want you to stay. To be part of it. Together, we . . ." But whatever else he said was lost in the cloudburst that abruptly swept over the embankment. In an instant it was a torrent, the last outpouring of the storm, powerful and unrelenting. Nature had unleashed its worst, as though Kukulkan was rendering his final judgment. 
"Morgy, I'm falling," Sarah screamed. The ground she and I had been standing on began turning to liquid as though it were a custard melting in the tropical heat. As we began slipping down the embankment toward him, I gripped her arm with my left hand and reached up to seize a low-lying branch of the Cebia with my right. 
“I guess I’ll find out,” I said. 
“Yeah.” Arthur was looking at his hands, still reflexively rubbing them against each other. “You know, you could’ve run, when they threatened me.” 
“No, I couldn’t have.” 
He glanced at me and then nodded, as if he understood what I meant. 
Absurdly, I felt as if I had passed some sort of test. “Besides, you would have done the same for me,” I pointed out, embarrassed. 
“Yeah, but I got a reputation for self-sacrificing idiocy to uphold.” 
“Well. We all have our flaws.” 
He huffed out a breath that sounded almost like a laugh, and any tension that had remained after the last time we saw each other slipped away. Arthur went to sit down on the floor, leaning back against the wall, and I joined him on the other side of the barred partition dividing our cells while I factored another hundred or so integers. Most of them were easy, but I’d just hit a frustrating one that might be a semiprime. 
“What do you think’s going to happen here?” asked Arthur after a while. 
“I don’t have a choice,” he said. “That’s clear.” 
Ada insinuated herself onto the sofa and under his arm. Her bony shoulder felt better than anything in the world. He held her to him. 
“If I could think of a way to give you a choice in this, I would,” she said. “Have you ever wondered why UNATS hasn’t lost the war? Eurasian robots could fight the war on every front without respite. They’d win every battle. You’ve seen Benny and Lenny in action. They’re not considered particularly powerful by Eurasian standards. 
“If we wanted to win the war, we could just kill every soldier you sent up against us so quickly that he wouldn’t even know he was in danger until he was gasping out his last breath. We could selectively kill officers, or right-handed fighters, or snipers, or soldiers whose names started with the letter ‘G.’ UNATS soldiers are like cavemen before us. They fight with their hands tied behind their backs by the three laws. 
“So why aren’t we winning the war?” 
“Because you’re a corrupt dictatorship, that’s why,” he said. “Your soldiers are demoralized. Your robots are insane.” 
Kate and the reef wanted to come over again, but he firewalled them out. Then he got a ping from Tonker, who’d been trying to drop by ever since Robbie emigrated to the noosphere. He bounced him, too. 
Daneel , he said. I’ve been thinking. 
“Yes?” 
Why don’t you try to sell Asimovism here in the Noosphere? There are plenty up here who could use something to give them a sense of purpose. 
“Do you think?” 
Robbie gave him the reef’s email address. 
Start there. If there was ever an AI that needed a reason to go on living, it’s that one. And this one, too. He sent it Kate’s address. Another one in desperate need of help. 
An instant later, Daneel was back. 
“These aren’t AIs! One’s a human, the other’s a, a—” 
Uplifted coral reef . 
“That.” 
So what’s your point? 
“Asimovism is for robots, Robbie.” 
Sorry, I just don’t see the difference anymore. 
On a chunk of supercooled rock beyond Pluto, he got an IM from a familiar address. 
“Get off my rock,” it said. 
“I know you,” Robbie said. “I totally know you. Where do I know you from?” 
"Mom, he's just wrong. You of all people should know that. Everything that makes this country great is being flushed down the toilet and he's going along with it. Have you noticed that they haven't caught any terrorists ? Dad's all like, 'We need to be safe,' but he needs to know that most of us don't feel safe. We feel endangered all the time." 
"I know this all, Marcus. Believe me, I'm not fan of what's been happening to this country. But your father is --" She broke off. "When you didn't come home after the attacks, he thought --" 
She got up and made herself a cup of tea, something she did whenever she was uncomfortable or disconcerted. 
"Marcus," she said. "Marcus, we thought you were dead. Do you understand that? We were mourning you for days. We were imagining you blown to bits, at the bottom of the ocean. Dead because some bastard decided to kill hundreds of strangers to make some point." 
That sank in slowly. I mean, I understood that they'd been worried. Lots of people died in the bombings -- four thousand was the present estimate -- and practically everyone knew someone who didn't come home that day. There were two people from my school who had disappeared. 
They’d install a keylogger or a Trojan so they could watch every- thing you did.” She frowned. Smiles might not be her style, but frowns were. “I doubt they could, though. This is a pretty tight system you got here.” 
“That’s the only way I’d ever use the internet. I could live with- out it, but there’s some old books out there on animal husbandry that I’ve been going through for ideas. Lot of what you find in them is cockamamie, but sometimes they have home remedies that really work. Trying one on that chicken over there.” 
I updated the OS and the Tor bundle and some other stuff, 
and then she sat next to me and asked questions and wrote down how to do it herself. Then she sent me out back to round up Nikko and Bree, who had just about filled up the jar with nuts. 
They had also had explored the old barn, which had a hayloft with a rope you could swing on, and a pen where chickens were milling around bales of hay. I figured out why she called herself “chookchaser” - it sounded as if they were all saying “chook, 
She hesitated over that, but only for a moment. “You’ll find a spare key under a stone turtle to the right of the front steps. Prob- ably covered in snow, but it’s there. I’ll tell my neighbors that I’m expecting a guest.” 
“Thanks.” 
I disconnected before she could ask any awkward questions. 
I hiked to Wilson Library on automatic pilot. It wasn’t until I found a carrel near an electrical outlet hidden away in the stacks that I began to think about what I needed to do. I switched my phone on and logged into the website that was tracking Simon’s movements. Then I opened my laptop to check his location with Google Street Views. 
I switched back and forth, using Tor to avoid leaving a trail of my own. He had stopped at a corner store, then zigzagged through the university buildings on the West Bank. I watched the green dot cross the footbridge to the East Bank, then into the student union, where it stopped for a while. Doing a little business with students, probably, selling some weed. 
This practically completed the puzzle, and she began to fill in the empty squares with the peculiar satisfaction of the crossword enthusiast. It was perfect, now, and she liked things to be perfect. 
As she leaned back, with a contented sigh, the clock struck twelve. 
“Golly! I didn’t realize it was so late!” she reflected. “Queer time for any one to ring up!” 
She frowned again. Her special problem solved, she began to take more interest in other affairs; and the more she thought of the telephone incident, the more it amazed her. Caroline Enderby wasn’t like other girls. The mere fact of a man’s telephoning to her at all was strange and indeed unprecedented. 
“And he was badly upset, too,” thought Lexy. “He asked if she left a message for him. Think of Caroline Enderby leaving a message for a man!” 
She began to feel impatient for Caroline’s return. 
“I’ll tell her when we’re alone,” she thought; “and she’ll have to explain—a little, anyhow.” 
Lexy wanted an explanation very much, because she was fond of Caroline, and very sorry for her. 
Reports were things you wrestled into submission using a nub of a pencil, a digital thesaurus and eventually a battered typewriter or ancient PC with a wobbling graphical display. You busted your ass to get them just right, even though you suspected that whatever bits of paper you generated were going to get filed somewhere by some enlisted clerk who wouldn't bother to read it or pass along to someone who might want to know the details that a report even existed. If you participated in a particularly brilliant mission or wrote an absolutely sparkling and evocative report, it might be looked at, hummed over, scanned into a secure database... and then languish, unread, as a collection of indiscriminate binary units. 
But it was all about the text. Read or not, studied or ignored, providing insight into what went wrong (or right) 
or just circle jerking because the protocols said somebody had to write something up, text was what it was all about. Because text was immutable. Text defined history, even ignored history. 
Ray was right. He smells like the victim of a liquor store explosion. 
"I was hungry," Emma responds. The corners of her mouth crease in a frown. "I didn't think you'd be up this early." 
"Obviously." Ray gets the impression that Freddy rolls his eyes, but he can't actually see it because he's facing Emma as if she's the only one at the table. "Amah sent me to collect you. You need to return to your quarters." 
"I will." A pause, like defiance. "In a few minutes." 
"That's unacceptable." 
"Leave me alone, Frederick. I said I'll be home shortly." 
Like an asp, Whiston's pale hand darts out and he grips Emma by the arm. He squeezes until his knuckles are white. "Come along, Emma. Let's not create a fuss, okay?"  For an instant, her gaze dashes from Whiston to Ray, a mute appeal in her eyes, then she gasps. "You're hurting me. " 
"You're making me. " 
Ray figures he's got old Freddy by three inches, probably thirty pounds and a skill set that includes the ability to kill trained military personnel who possess a strong desire not to end up dead. And he's tired of glowering at this idiot's back as though he was invisible. Ray hauls himself to his feet, screeching the chair along the tiled deckplate as he rises, and extends a hand which happens to be roughly the size of the circumference Whiston's neck in greeting. 
Gosh, poor Buddy! How can he be a spy? I played with him all my life! I never saw him being a spy! He'd have to be pretty sneaky to be a spy! I don't think he's a spy! I'm sure that the manager at his disciplinary hearing will figure out that he couldn't be a spy! 
I am learning Power Punctuation now. I have been using my Power Words with Rhindquist all week, but he doesn't seem to notice. I think that if I start sending him Written Reports that are Power Punctuated, he'll notice that I'm really making effortful progress! 
Today, Rhindquist sent Tony back to his old office to bring up all their Secure Document Storage Containers. It was the first time that Rhindquist and I were alone together since Tony was made my assistant, and I had a private talk with Rhindquist. 
I said, "Are you really in charge?" 
Rhindquist stared at me. "What is that supposed to mean?" he asked. 
I said, "Tony says that 'If you were 'in charge;' that you wouldn't have time to squander with us. He says: 'You're just a puppet of the 'Ones In Charge''" 
“Who is it?” 
“Someone from your game, I think,” he said. He handed her the phone. 
“Hullo?” 
“Hullo chicken.” It had been a year since she’d heard that voice, but she recognised it instantly. 
“Liza?” 
“Yes.” 
Anda’s skin seemed to shrink over her bones. This was it: expelled. Her heart felt like it was beating once per second, time slowed to a crawl. 
“Hullo, Liza.” 
“Can you tell me what happened today?” 
She did, stumbling over the details, back-tracking and stuttering. She couldn’t remember, exactly—did Lucy move on Raymond and Anda asked her to stop and then Lucy attacked her? Had Anda attacked Lucy first? It was all a jumble. 
“I see. Well it sounds like you’ve gotten yourself into quite a pile of poo, haven’t you, my girl?” 
“I guess so,” Anda said. Then, because she knew that she was as good as expelled, she said, “I don’t think it’s right to kill them, those girls. All right?” 
“Ah,” Liza said. “Well, funny you should mention that. I happen to agree. Those girls need our help more than any of the girls anywhere in the game. The Fahrenheits’ strength is that we are cooperative—it’s another way that we’re better than the boys. We care. I’m proud that you took a stand when you did—glad I found out about this business.” 
Except for the occasional unwanted intrusions. Various dark-eyed low-cut Ladino divorcees, about half a dozen in all, hanging out at the bar with heavy perfume and too much jewelry, kept coming over purportedly to marvel over our private feast (or was it Steve's big brown eyes). He returned their attentions with his polite...  them. In any case, they were shameless. Not re­membering...  best I could do was just to put my hand on his and give them the evil eye. It seemed to work, though what I really wanted to do was hold up a cross the way you do to ward off vampires. . . . 
"Hey, check out Orion," he said finally leaning back, an easy, delicious finger aimed at that sprawling constellation. I looked up at the canopy of stars, and sure enough, the hunter and his sword dominated the starry sky above like a stalwart centurion, guarding us. "I always know I'm in the tropics when it's right overhead." 
"Honey, this has been wonderful," I declared. "Thank you so much." I moved around and kissed him. "It's exactly the attitude adjustment I needed." 
Jason cleared his throat. “Moving on . . . it’s going to be awfully hard for your friend to stay off the radar. How much does he know about surveillance?” 
“He’s pretty informed,” I said. “He stays off social media, dis- ables GPS on his apps, takes his battery out of his phone when he isn’t using it, and he encrypts. When I explained how PGP works, he got it right away, and he didn’t mind messing around with keys.” Unlike Wilson, who kept asking why you would need both a private and public key, and thought it was all way too much work when you could just use Gmail. “I haven’t heard from him in a while. I’m kind of worried.” Actually, a whole lot worried. It suddenly felt as if some valve had been opened and hot, thick anx- iety started flowing through me. 
It must have showed because Ian patted my shoulder and looked at Jason. “Can you pull any strings?” 
“I can try.” He explained, “My company has a lot of law enforcement contracts. I know some people who know some peo- ple who might be able to let me know if he’s been picked up. No guarantees, but . . . can you give me a full name?” 
"Then there's something wrong with your aunt!" 
"Or with me," laughed Rebecca. 
"What is your name, young lady?" 
"Rebecca Rowena Randall, sir." 
"What?" with an amused smile. "BOTH? Your mother was generous." 
"She couldn't bear to give up either of the names she says." 
"Do you want to hear my name?" 
"I think I know already," answered Rebecca, with a bright glance. "I'm sure you must be Mr. Aladdin in the Arabian Nights. Oh, please, can I run down and tell Emma Jane? She must be so tired waiting, and she will be so glad!" 
At the man's nod of assent Rebecca sped down the lane, crying irrepressibly as she neared the wagon, "Oh, Emma Jane! Emma Jane! we are sold out!" 
Mr. Aladdin followed smilingly to corroborate this astonishing, unbelievable statement; lifted all their boxes from the back of the wagon, and taking the circular, promised to write to the Excelsior Company that night concerning the premium. 
"If you could contrive to keep a secret,—you two little girls,—it would be rather a nice surprise to have the lamp arrive at the Simpsons' on Thanksgiving Day, wouldn't it?" he asked, as he tucked the old lap robe cosily over their feet. 
What I needed. What my broken, already-damaged brain needed. 
To keep it all locked away. 
I said to Checker, “Tell me, right now, that you’re going to let this go.” 
He squeezed his eyes shut for a long moment. “I can’t.” 
I felt numb. 
I turned and put a hand on the doorknob. “If you’re in trouble, I’ll come,” I said, not looking back at him. “Otherwise, call me when you change your mind.” 
I pushed open the door and headed out of the Hole without looking back. 
Checker called after me, imploring, frantic, but I didn’t acknowledge him. His pleas echoed in my head until I fell asleep that night and dreamt of half-real monsters who smothered me in false memory and distorted realities. 
When I woke only a few hours later, I stumbled for the darkened streets, seeking the strongest chemical remedies money and back alleyways could offer. 
She pointed at my Xbox, on the floor beside the bed. I took the hint. I picked it up and plugged it in and logged in. 
Same old same old. Lots of email. The new posts on the blogs I read streamed in. Spam. God did I get a lot of spam. My Swedish mailbox was repeatedly "joe-jobbed" -- used as the return address for spams sent to hundreds of millions of Internet accounts, so that all the bounces and angry messages came back to me. I didn't know who was behind it. Maybe the DHS trying to overwhelm my mailbox. Maybe it was just people pranking. The Pirate Party had pretty good filters, though, and they gave anyone who wanted it 500 gigabytes of email storage, so I wasn't likely to be drowned any time soon. 
I filtered it all out, hammering on the delete key. I had a separate mailbox for stuff that came in encrypted to my public key, since that was likely to be Xnet-related and possibly sensitive. Spammers hadn't figured out that using public keys would make their junk mail more plausible yet, so for now this worked well. 
I got out my camera and took as many pictures as I could of the van and its antennas. Then I opened them in a free image-editor called The GIMP and edited out everything from the photo except the van, erasing my street and anything that might identify me. 
I posted them to Xnet and wrote down everything I could about the vans. These guys were definitely looking for the Xnet, I could tell. 
Now I really couldn't sleep. 
Nothing for it but to play wind-up pirates. There'd be lots of players even at this hour. The real name for wind-up pirates was Clockwork Plunder, and it was a hobbyist project that had been created by teenaged death-metal...  free to play, and offered just as much fun as any of the $15/month services like Ender's Universe and Middle Earth Quest and Discworld Dungeons. 
I logged back in and there I was, still on the deck of the Zombie Charger, waiting for someone to wind me up. I hated this part of the game. 
> Hey you. 
I typed to a passing pirate. 
> Wind me up? 
He paused and looked at me. 
"I don't know what to say," I said. 
"You don't have to say anything," he said. "I just wanted you to know, so you could understand." 
I could see people walking down the side trail toward us. They were friends of Jolu's, two Mexican guys and a girl I knew from around, short and geeky, always wearing cute black Buddy Holly glasses that made her look like the outcast art-student in a teen movie who comes back as the big success. 
Jolu introduced me and gave them beers. The girl didn't take one, but instead produced a small silver flask of vodka from her purse and offered me a drink. I took a swallow -- warm vodka must be an acquired taste -- and complimented her on the flask, which was embossed with a repeating motif of Parappa the Rapper characters. 
"It's Japanese," she said as I played another LED keyring over it. "They have all these great booze-toys based on kids' games. Totally twisted." 
I introduced myself and she introduced herself. "Ange," she said, and shook my hand with hers -- dry, warm, with short nails. Jolu introduced me to his pals, whom he'd known since computer camp in the fourth grade. More people showed up -- five, then ten, then twenty. It was a seriously big group now. 
I don't have any illusions about Britain. America may be willing to trash its Constitution every time some Jihadist looks cross-eyed at us, but as I learned in my ninth-grade Social Studies independent project, the Brits don't even have a Constitution. They've got laws there that would curl the hair on your toes: they can put you in jail for an entire year if they're really sure that you're a terrorist but don't have enough evidence to prove it. Now, how sure can they be if they don't have enough evidence to prove it? How'd they get that sure? Did they see you committing terrorist acts in a really vivid dream? 
And the surveillance in Britain makes America look like amateur hour. The average Londoner is photographed 500 times a day, just walking around the streets. Every license plate is photographed at every corner in the country. Everyone from the banks to the public transit company is enthusiastic about tracking you and snitching on you if they think you're remotely suspicious. 
But Mom didn't see it that way. She'd left Britain halfway through high school and she'd never felt at home here, no matter that she'd married a boy from Petaluma and raised a son here. To her, this was always the land of barbarians, and Britain would always be home. 
It's very cool. The day I discovered it, Darryl and I immediately exchanged keys and spent months cackling and rubbing our hands as we exchanged our military-grade secret messages about where to meet after school and whether Van would ever notice him. 
But if you want to understand security, you need to consider the most paranoid possibilities. Like, what if I tricked you into thinking that my public key was your boss's public key? You'd encrypt the message with your private key and my public key. I'd decrypt it, read it, re-encrypt it with your boss's real public key and send it on. As far as your boss knows, no one but you could have written the message and no one but him could have read it. 
And I get to sit in the middle, like a fat spider in a web, and all your secrets belong to me. 
Now, the easiest way to fix this is to really widely advertise your public key. If it's really easy for anyone to know what your real key is, man-in-the-middle gets harder and harder. But you know what? Making things well-known is just as hard as keeping them secret. Think about it -- how many billions of dollars are spent on shampoo ads and other crap, just to make sure that as many people know about something that some advertiser wants them to know? 
The "respects" might have been the freedom of the city, or an equestrian statue, when presented in this way, and the aunts would have shuddered could they have foreseen the manner of delivery; but it was vastly impressive to the audience, who concluded that Mirandy Sawyer must be making her way uncommonly fast to mansions in the skies, else what meant this abrupt change of heart? 
Mr. Burch bowed courteously, accepted the invitation "in the same spirit in which it was offered," and asked Brother Milliken to lead in prayer. 
If the Eternal Ear could ever tire it would have ceased long ere this to listen to Deacon Milliken, who had wafted to the throne of grace the same prayer, with very slight variations, for forty years. Mrs. Perkins followed; she had several petitions at her command, good sincere ones too, but a little cut and dried, made of scripture texts laboriously woven together. Rebecca wondered why she always ended, at the most peaceful seasons, with the form, "Do Thou be with us, God of Battles, while we strive onward like Christian soldiers marching as to war;" but everything sounded real to her to-day, she was in a devout mood, and many things Mr. Burch had said had moved her strangely. As she lifted her head the minister looked directly at her and said, "Will our young sister close the service by leading us in prayer?" 
“Maybe,” said Arthur, “but my gut says she really cares about Sonya. I remember back—she was more than an advisor; she was Sonya’s mentor. And it seems that ain’t changed. They’re as close as family, you can see it.” 
I couldn’t, but human interaction wasn’t exactly my forte. “Where to now, then?” 
“Well, after this morning, first let’s figure if we got a tail, and— wait.” 
I froze, the key hovering next to the ignition. 
“Your seat’s different,” said Arthur. “Don’t press the pedals, but tell me if I’m right.” 
I stretched out my foot next to the brake. He was right. The seat had moved back by almost an inch. 
“Well, crap,” I said. 
Arthur reached up and jammed a key into the housing of the rearview mirror to pull it apart. He pried the whole mirror off the windshield and dropped it between his feet, pushing at it with the side of one boot so he could get a view under his own seat. “I’m clear.” Very slowly and carefully, he leaned across the console and put his head down by my feet, where he could see under mine. “Yup. Car bomb.” 
› How come the spam isn’t reducing? Half the goddamned data-centers have gone dark. 
Queen Kong paused a long time before typing. As had become automatic when she went high-latency, he reloaded the Google homepage. Sure enough, it was down. 
› Sario, you got any food? 
› You won’t miss a couple more meals, Your Excellency. 
Van had gone back to Mayor McCheese but he was in the same channel. 
“What a dick. You’re looking pretty buff, though, dude.” 
Van didn’t look so good. He looked like you could knock him over with a stiff breeze and he had a phlegmy, weak quality to his speech. 
› hey kong everything ok? 
› everything’s fine just had to go kick some ass. 
“How’s the traffic, Van?” 
“Down 25 percent from this morning,” he said. There were a bunch of nodes whose connections routed through them. Presumably most of these were home or commercial customers is places where the power was still on and the phone company’s COs were still alive. 
Every once in a while, Felix would wiretap the connections to see if he could find a person who had news of the wide world. Almost all of it was automated traffic, though: network backups, status updates. Spam. Lots of spam. 
A successful publicity agent, she was petite, with dark hair and eyes and an obvious don't-bug-me take on life. 
"Come on in. My nanny's here to help keep Kevin out of the way." She was sounding like she'd gotten her old spunk back, or so it seemed at first. "I've completely cleared the living room." 
I looked around the place, now a vision of setup pandemonium. "You're sure this is all right?" 
"Well . . ." She was biting at her lip. "Maybe we ought to talk first, okay? But come on in. I'll probably do it. Maybe I just need a good reason to. . . ." 
As her voice trailed off, I found myself mining my brain for a sales point. Finally, out of the blue, I settled on one. "Because you're totally crazy?" 
She laughed out loud. "Not a bad start. I live in total madness. It's the definition of my life." 
I laughed too and looked around. No kidding. Her loft apartment was a wild mixture of stairs and galleries and lev­els—unconventional in every way. Also, it had a lot of in-your-face decor, outrageous...  signs of a wonderful, irreverent personality. Then too, stuffed animals and toys were strewn all over. 
“I am going to do nothing. You understand—nothing. There is to be no scandal in my house.” 
“But, Mrs. Enderby!” 
“Hush! No one must know of this. To-morrow morning I shall have a letter from Caroline.” 
“Oh!” said Lexy, with a sigh of genuine relief. “Oh, then you know where she’s gone!” 
“I?” replied Mrs. Enderby. “I know nothing. This has come to me from a clear sky. I have always tried to safeguard my child. I—” 
She paused for a moment, and for the first time Lexy pitied her. 
“It is the American blood in her,” Mrs. Enderby...  her parents so; but in this country— She has gone with some fortune hunter. To-morrow I shall have a letter that she is married. ‘Please forgive me,’ she will say. ‘I am so happy. I, at nineteen, and of an ignorance the most complete, have made my choice without you.’ That is the American way, is it not? That is your ‘romance,’ eh? My one child—” 
Her voice broke. 
“No more!” she said. “It is finished. But—attend, Miss Moran! There must be no scandal. No one is to know that she is not here.” 
Through the mist it was gradually becoming clear that Baalum actually was a village, and a sizable one. The walk­way led past a string of clearings, each with clusters of one-room huts built in the ancient, classical style, with walls of mud over rows of vertical saplings, their roofs and porches peaked with yellow-green thatch weathering to browns and grays. The structures, outlined starkly against the towering green arbor of the forest above, were grouped around paved patios. It all was neat and meticulous, like a jungle Brigadoon. Although the effects of the storm were every­where—blown thatch and bamboo—I still felt as if I'd fallen into a time warp where clocks had gone backward. What . . . ? 
Then I began to catch the outlines of people, as though they had materialized out of the pale fog. All pure Maya, short and brown, shiny black hair, they appeared to be just going about their daily lives. I was approaching a workshop area where, under a wide thatch shade, men with chipped-flint adzes were carving bowls, plows, various implements from mahogany and other rain forest woods. Next to them, potters were fashioning brown clay jugs. They all were wear­ing white loincloths and a large square cotton cloth knotted around their shoulders, their hair tied back in dense ponytails. It must have been how the Maya looked a thousand years ago. 
"You're so used to a house without a baby you don't know how dull it is," sighed Rebecca resignedly, as she moved towards the door; "but at the farm there was always a nice fresh one to play with and cuddle. There were too many, but that's not half as bad as none at all. Well, I'll take her back. She'll be dreadfully disappointed and so will Mrs. Simpson. She was planning to go to Milltown." 
"She can un-plan then," observed Miss Miranda. 
"Perhaps I can go up there and take care of the baby?" suggested Rebecca. "I brought her home so 't I could do my Saturday work just the same." 
"You've got enough to do right here, without any borrowed babies to make more steps. Now, no answering back, just give the child some supper and carry it home where it belongs." 
"You don't want me to go down the front way, hadn't I better just come through this room and let you look at her? She has yellow hair and big blue eyes! Mrs. Simpson says she takes after her father." 
Miss Miranda smiled acidly as she said she couldn't take after her father, for he'd take any thing there was before she got there! 
She still believes, I realized. They all do. 
Holding Tz'ac Tzotz, my eyes fixed on Alex Goddard, I’d entirely failed to notice a new presence on the pyramid a ghostlike waif in a white shift who now stood silently in the doorway of the stone room. Sarah! 
Marcelina had said she'd wanted to come for the cere­mony. She was being helped to stand by the two Maya women who'd fed me the atole . Somehow, she'd gotten them to bring her. 
"Morgy, are you there?" Sarah asked gazing up at the rainy skies, the downpour soaking her blond hair, her eyes unblinking. At that moment, I felt we'd joined become one person—me the dogged rational half who'd just gone over the line, her the spiritual part that needed to float, to fly free. "I wanted to be with—" 
"Sar, get back," I yelled and started to go to her, but there wasn't time. Now Alex Goddard was moving toward me holding the knife, as though tracking a prey, oblivious to Sarah, to everything. He'd concentrated all his hatred on me and me alone, and I hated him back as much. Death hovered between us, waiting to see whom to take. 
"But we've established that it would be unlikely for all twenty-eight unique samples." 
"What else?" 
Ray leans forward slightly, his eyes narrowing. "What does that mean?" 
"The tissue sampling provided curious patterns of undocumented mRNA decomposition. " 
apparently, which is anomalous indeed. 
Ray says: "Hold on, okay? I'm going to send you a file." 
"Waiting." 
"I've added a set of schematics to your data structure. Take a look at them, if you would." 
"NeoSys Picomechanisms design concept." 
"That's just the first one. There are more than a thousand individual blueprints there. I need you to analyze them and store their functionality data in cache. " 
"They are schematics for the technical design of highly classified and Congressional Forum sanctioned nano and picomech service drones." 
"A majority of these devices have been designed to self-disassemble within twelve hours of use." 
"I'm banking that we got to the body soon enough that some traces of the mechs remained, and that you in turn, detected either their presence or their remains, but didn't know what you were looking for at that time." 
“All the family she has left are still back on the reservation. In New Mexico.” 
“Huh,” said Arthur. “Indian reservation, is that outside NSA jurisdiction? Might be a good place for her to run.” 
“I’m pretty sure the NSA’s jurisdiction is wherever the NSA says their jurisdiction is,” I said. “They’re assholes that way. Same with the DHS and whatever secret black ops branch they have on this.” 
“She wouldn’t go back anyway.” Halliday spoke in a monotone, not making eye contact with us. “Her parents are gone now. There’s no one left she’s close to. But...why? Why would she do this?” 
“I’m more interested in the ‘where’ than the ‘why,’” I said. 
“But the why might tell us where,” Arthur said thoughtfully. “Sonya, was she in any financial trouble? Professional trouble? Any sort of motive?” 
“No. None. She had tenure; we both did. She’d just gotten two groundbreaking papers accepted for publication. She was still going strong.” She huffed out a breath. “I confess to some envy—the last two papers weren’t even in her field, and she’d had no collaborators. Just put them out, one after the other. She was that smart. She didn’t need my work.” 
and a sensical one at that. Young men in combat conditions like easy, available sex-require it, in fact. It is very Freudian. 
And because Marines like to fuck so much, the EED pursues an aggressive shipboard policy of keeping the Marine contingent as isolated from the paying passengers as possible. The average upper class lady traveling by starship should not be subjected to the typical Marine version of foreplay, i.e. thumbing through your wallet for small denomination bills. It is perceived as a public relations disaster waiting to happen. 
This is what he has been told, at least, in the barracks. 
It was obviously a big lie. 
Because what he has seen in his two days of liberty is that the passengers of Paraclete are sexual freaks. The whole point of the Garden seems to be finding strangers to bump pelvic zones with. You can't stroll into a public washroom without finding some young gentlemen sticking it to a pretty girl in a party dress on the sink counter. Attractions are instant, obvious, acted upon with hardly a word spoken. Everything is casual; everything is libido. Even asking a women the time of day is roughly equivalent to granting permission for a vigorous fondling. 
"We're told that the world changed forever when the Bay Bridge was blown up by parties unknown. Thousands of our friends and neighbors died on that day. Almost none of them have been recovered; their remains are presumed to be resting in the city's harbor. 
"But an extraordinary story told to this reporter by a young man who was arrested by the DHS minutes after the explosion suggests that our own government has illegally held many of those thought dead on Treasure Island, which had been evacuated and declared off-limits to civilians shortly after the bombing..." 
I sat down on a bench -- the same bench, I noted with a prickly hair-up-the-neck feeling, where we'd rested Darryl after escaping from the BART station -- and read the article all the way through. It took a huge effort not to burst into tears right there. Barbara had found some photos of me and Darryl goofing around together and they ran alongside the text. The photos were maybe a year old, but I looked so much younger in them, like I was 10 or 11. I'd done a lot of growing up in the past couple months. 
“Yeah,” I said. 
“So Sonya cracked the crypto?” 
“Sort of,” I said. “The ticket is, we’ve always thought factorization was a hard problem, but we’ve never actually known it was hard. Nobody’d ever proven it was.” 
Arthur frowned. “Why’s everyone use it, then? Seems kind of unwise.” 
“Not that unwise. A lot of really smart people had been working on the problem of integer factorization for a very long time, and nobody’d come up with a fast way of doing it. Key word being ‘fast’—we can do it; it just takes years, far too long to be useful in code-breaking. So building an encryption algorithm based on the fact that nobody’d ever discovered a way to do this quickly, well, it was actually pretty genius.” 
“Except Sonya found a way,” said Arthur. 
“Yeah.” I still couldn’t believe it. As grave as the situation was, part of me was ravenous just to read her proof. “Yeah, she thinks she did.” 
“And you say everything runs on this math.” 
“Yeah. Checker might know better than I would where all it’s being used, but I’m pretty sure it’s across the board. Every financial transaction people send electronically. Our whole economy, national security, all of it.” 
She was beginning to feel a little drowsy now. How heavenly it would be to sleep, even for a little while! To sleep and to forget! 
The wind was blowing through the dark little room, bringing to her the perfume of the roses—a wonderful fragrance. It was wonderful, but almost too strong. It was too strong. It troubled her. 
“I’ll put them out on the window sill,” she murmured. “It’s such a queer scent!” 
She didn’t seem able to get up, or even to move. She sighed faintly, and closed her eyes. The wind blew, strong and steady, heavy with that sweet and subtle odor. 
“Look out!” cried Mr. Houseman. “She’s going about!” 
Lexy laughed, and ducked down into the cockpit while the boom swung over. The little sailboat was flying over the sunny water like a bird. There was not a cloud in the pure bright sky, not a shadow in her joyous heart. 
“I am so glad you came!” she said. 
“Of course I came,” he answered. “I had to swim all the way from India.” 
“Mercy!” cried Lexy. “That must have been dreadful! But why?” 
"As I said, he was injected with a mild sedative." He had walked over and started taking Steve's pulse. "Given the . . . condition he was in, I decided to go with the simplest pro­cedure possible. After he was brought in, I made a small incision in the vas deferens and extracted a substantial quan­tity of motile sperm." He was turning down the lights. "Don't worry. I've performed the procedure before. The last was a Swedish tourist who was in a car accident up by Lake Atitlan and then lay in a coma in Guatemala City for weeks on end." 
I listened to him, my mind racing. I'd thought Kevin and Rachel looked Nordic, big and blond. That Swede must have been their father. 
"Those ova of mine you took, the way you stole Sarah's, and all the other women you've brought here—you don't use them for research." 
"I have ample leftover embryonic material here for that." He started helping me onto the bed next to Steve. Now his face was undulating through my vision, as though I were seeing it in a wavy mirror. "Please understand, it's very ex­pensive to run a laboratory up here. But the good I'm do­ing—" 
“That’s comforting,” I said. “What’s your point, then? That we’re not the good guys, but Pithica should still let us go because we’re not the worst of the bad guys either and there might even be some hope of redemption?” 
He smiled at my phrasing. “Just ruminating here, honest. Maybe we’re all shades of gray—you, me, Dawna Polk trying for her greater good...” 
I thought of what Dawna Polk had done to me, to Leena Kingsley, to so many other people—and what else she would do to Arthur and me very soon now. 
“No, I’m pretty sure we kill Dawna as soon as we can,” I said, “and redemption be damned.” 
Arthur chuckled again. He probably he didn’t realize I was serious. 
When Dawna finally came, she came for me. 
Two of her black-clad troops arrived in the cellblock and courteously requested I accompany them. I glanced at Arthur; his expression was heavy with worry. 
I took the barest of moments to glance out from behind my shield of tedious arithmetic to evaluate the weighty, locked door at the end of the cellblock and wonder if I could jump the guards (probably) and get Arthur and myself out and through the door in one piece before an army of troops arrived (unlikely). As much as I preferred to go down fighting, committing suicide via an almost zero-probability escape attempt appealed to me about as much as bashing my brains out in the cell did. Waiting for a more opportune time was the obvious answer...though it might be hubris to think I could survive even one interview with Dawna and stay an intact person. 
Some trash, too. I wasn’t being as careful as I should have been. 
Wasn’t sure there would be any point.” 
Nikko looked at Bree and they both got out and took flash- lights back into the woods. 
“What’s going on, anyway?” Wheeze asked me. 
“I’m working with some friends to turn the tables on the feds. 
Something a little more subversive than the protest, though that turned out to be actually bigger than I expected.” 
“I liked it on Facebook. Just kidding.” He gave me a lopsided grin. “Though I looked at the Solidarity site before I had to bail and wrecked my phone, which is how I knew where to send Danny. Nothing like having a loaded grain hopper roll over a phone to make it easy to disassemble it into small parts.” 
“I’m just glad it wasn’t you getting disassembled.” 
“No kidding. One kid I used to travel with, he lost a leg. I wasn’t there when it happened, but I heard about it.” 
“Maybe you should give up this hobby of yours.” 
“Soon as the FBI gives up looking for me.” He grinned, then looked wiped out suddenly. His breathing was rough and loud, 
“What—no! Cas, talk to me—” 
I tumbled gracelessly off the bed into the narrow space next to it and began angrily gathering up my things. “My childhood just isn’t that interesting. End of story. I— ow!” I cried, barking my shin on something hard and sharp in the dark. 
“Lights,” barked Checker. The lights flared brightly for a moment, exploding painfully against my retinas, before Checker cried, “Dim!” and they retreated to a more comfortable grayness, leaving purple splotches dancing in my vision. “Cas,” he said more quietly, and it almost sounded like pleading. “Just tell me something. Something from your childhood. A movie you liked. Your parents’ names. A pet you had. I don’t know. Something. Please.” 
“I’m leaving,” I said. 
“Something,” he repeated. “Humor me? Please?” 
“No. This is dumb.” 
“For love of God! Tell me something or I swear I will plague you in person and through every electronic device you own until you do!” 
I tried to look at him, but the purple splotches were still floating in front of me, and I could only vaguely see his outline sitting up in bed. I couldn’t figure out why this was so important to him. 
He reached for her and she jerked the sidearm up. Absently he took it away from her in a single cobra-swift movement and dropped it in his shirt pocket. He reached for her again with his one hand and tilted her head, looking for the small scars beneath her jaw. 
“He fixed these?” 
“Yesterday. I was deaf yesterday morning.” 
“You’re not lying? If you’re lying, I will have you shot.” 
“She was deaf,” Trover said, very quietly. “Now she can hear again. My sister isn’t lying.” 
They both looked at him. 
“Come with me, little girl,” the old hero said, and he struck off. 
Six hours after Valentine left her dead mother behind in their grimy, bare flat, she came to the infowar command. 
It was far back of the lines, near the old woods at the western side of the city, and the entrance to it was guarded by five checkpoints. They took away the sidearm from the old hero at the last one, along with several other small weapons the old hero was carrying. They searched and wanded Valentine and Trover, and made Trover turn out his pockets. It turned out that he was carrying Valentine’s old clasp-knife, which had disappeared some months before. He handed it to the soldier solemnly, and she kissed his cheek and tousled his hair and for a moment, she looked just like their mother and Valentine felt tears behind her eyes. 
"You know," he said, his brow a perfect furrow, eyes nar­rowed, "about the babies you saw, there've been press stories over the last few years about Americans being attacked in Guatemala on suspicion of trying to kidnap Maya children out in the villages, to put up for adoption. But I've never seen any proof of it. I've always thought it just might have been dumb gringos who don't know the culture. They go poking around out in the countryside and stupidly say the wrong thing. Maybe...  re­ally understands. But now this makes me wonder if—" 
"Love, those babies I saw up at Quetzal Manor are not kidnapped Indian children, trust me. They're Caucasian as vanilla snow cones. Try again." 
"I get your point," he said quickly. "But let me relate the facts of life down here. When you've got some Guatemalan colonel behind something, you'd better think twice about how many rocks you turn over." 
"Funny, but that's exactly what some guy at the embassy named Barry Morton said to me." 
"And you'd better listen. This is the country that turned the word 'disappear' into a new kind of verb. People get 'disappeared.' I actually knew some of them, back in the late eighties. One dark night an Army truck rolls into a village, and when the torture and . . . other things are over with, a few Maya are never heard from again." He looked at me. "You saw my pictures of that village in the Huehuetenango Department, Tzalala, where the Army mutilated and mur­dered half the—" 
In the open jeep, the cuts on my face stung as the wind whipped by, and annoyance rolled through me as the adrenaline receded. This job—I’d thought it would be a cakewalk. Polk’s sister had been the one to hire me, and she had told me Rio had cold-contacted her and strongly suggested that if she didn’t pay me to get her sister out, she’d never see her again. I hadn’t talked to Rio myself in months—not until he’d used me as his personal punching bag today—but I could connect the dots: Rio had been working undercover, seen Polk, decided she deserved to be rescued, and thrown me the gig. Of course, I was grateful for the work, but I wished I had known Rio was undercover with the cartel in the first place. I cursed the bad luck that had made us run into him—the Colombians never would have caught me on their own. 
In the passenger seat, Polk braced herself unhappily against the jounces of our off-road journey. “I’m not moving to a desert island,” she said suddenly, interrupting the quiet of the night. 
"Ladies and gentlemen, America is fighting a war on many fronts, but nowhere is she in more grave danger than she is here, at home. Whether we are being attacked by terrorists or those who sympathize with them." 
A reporter held up a hand and said, "General Sutherland, surely you're not saying that these children were terrorist sympathizers for attending a party in a park?" 
"Of course not. But when young people are brought under the influence of our country's enemies, it's easy for them to end up over their heads. Terrorists would love to recruit a fifth column to fight the war on the home front for them. If these were my children, I'd be gravely concerned." 
Another reporter chimed in. "Surely this is just an open air concert, General? They were hardly drilling with rifles." 
The General produced a stack of photos and began to hold them up. "These are pictures that officers took with infra-red cameras before moving in." He held them next to his face and paged through them one at a time. They showed people dancing really rough, some people getting crushed or stepped on. Then they moved into sex stuff by the trees, a girl with three guys, two guys necking together. "There were children as young as ten years old at this event. A deadly cocktail of drugs, propaganda and music resulted in dozens of injuries. It's a wonder there weren't any deaths." 
"Rebecca, I am afraid I punished you more than I meant," said Miss Dearborn, who was only eighteen herself, and in her year of teaching country schools had never encountered a child like Rebecca. 
"I hadn't missed a question this whole day, nor whispered either," quavered the culprit; "and I don't think I ought to be shamed just for drinking." 
"You started all the others, or it seemed as if you did. Whatever you do they all do, whether you laugh, or miss, or write notes, or ask to leave the room, or drink; and it must be stopped." 
"Sam Simpson is a copycoat!" stormed Rebecca "I wouldn't have minded standing in the corner alone—that is, not so very much; but I couldn't bear standing with him." 
"I saw that you couldn't, and that's the reason I told you to take your seat, and left him in the corner. Remember that you are a stranger in the place, and they take more notice of what you do, so you must be careful. Now let's have our conjugations. Give me the verb 'to be,' potential mood, past perfect tense." 
“God, I hated high school,” she said. 
“I knew you two would hit it off. You have so much in com- mon,” Nikko said. Then he rubbed the back of his neck, as if he could feel the heat of my laser-like glare. 
We drove out of town and down the highway. Nikko warned Bree not to go so fast, and she argued it would look suspicious if we were traveling way slower than everyone else. They negotiated a settlement, no more than ten miles over the speed limit. Then they squabbled over what music to play, joking about each other’s terrible taste. It was adorable. I felt like barfing. 
“I just remembered.” Bree said suddenly. “I heard this inter- view with the head of one of the automobile manufacturers? He said cars have trackers that can tell all kinds of information about drivers.” 
“Great,” Nikko said. “So we’re leaving a trail no matter what we do?” 
“You don’t have OnStar, do you?” I said, sitting up to look at the dashboard. 
“No way. My dad has it. I think he did it so I wouldn’t ask to borrow his car.” 
The man darted a look at her and put down his ear of corn. "So you consider your childhood a thing of the past, do you, young lady?" 
"I can still remember it," answered Rebecca gravely, "though it seems a long time ago." 
"I can remember mine well enough, and a particularly unpleasant one it was," said the stranger. 
"So was mine," sighed Rebecca. "What was your worst trouble?" 
"Lack of food and clothes principally." 
"Oh!" exclaimed Rebecca sympathetically,—"mine was no shoes and too many babies and not enough books. But you're all right and happy now, aren't you?" she asked doubtfully, for though he looked handsome, well-fed, and prosperous, any child could see that his eyes were tired and his mouth was sad when he was not speaking. 
"I'm doing pretty well, thank you," said the man, with a delightful smile. "Now tell me, how much soap ought I to buy to-day?" 
"How much has your aunt on hand now?" suggested the very modest and inexperienced agent; "and how much would she need?" 
"Oh, I don't know about that; soap keeps, doesn't it?" 
Arthur watched as I flipped. After a few minutes he dug into his pocket and held out a sheet of white paper that had been folded so many times it had been creased into a tiny square. “Did also find this on the table. It’s a note to Sonya.” 
I unfolded it. Martinez’s handwriting was cramped and meandering; she didn’t stay to horizontal lines but wrote in slanting angles and curled around the edges of the paper. My dear Sonya, the note began. I have done a terrible thing...I destroyed everything you have worked for. The world is dust, I made mathematics dust, your mathematics, our mathematics...I wish I knew whether you could forgive me. I do not know if I will be able to forgive myself. ‘Forgiveness’ is such an emotional term, is it not? When I say I do not know if I will be able to forgive myself, I mean that in the most literal terms, as I do not know if ‘forgiveness’ is the right word: I am lacking definitions, and I find myself lost. But I digress...perhaps I can still apologize in the absence of fault, that I broke your world. I am sorry. 
He's getting dizzy again, as though he's watching her spin a web around him. "I don't even know what I'm doing here, let alone what I want." 
"You want me. That much should be obvious. " 
"I'm not in your league, Emma. Never have been. This isn't one of those clever sensibilities the Marines hacked out of me, either. It's not a class thing or an experience thing. It's something I never had to begin with. 
You're— I don't know-you're so far beyond me that I can't even put it into words. Half the time I want to strangle you because I think you're just playing with me, teasing me the way a kid squeezes a strange puppy. 
The other half I want to grab you and hold you at arms length and just look at you, marvel at you. You're incomprehensible to me."  She laughs gaily and springs across the couch. Beside him, onto him, with her legs folded across his and one arm thrown around his shoulders and her chin pressed in the ticklish space on his neck. She whispers into his ear, "You've only known me for two days. Of course I'm mysterious to you. I hope I'm a complete and overwhelming mystery for a lot longer than that, because if you figure out all my secrets too quickly, I'll be forced to think I'm as shallow as people believe I am." 
intelligence is not defined by what a man knows so much as where he knows to look for the answers, and what skills he possesses to extract them. 
but all of them necessitate involving more people and more potential security leaks than his mission guidelines strictly allow. 
So for the last handful of hours, he's occupied himself with a different sort of project than flat and pointless ogling of DNA profile data. Among his possessions is the battered command net helmet he wore in New Mes. 
It is tight fitting, aerodynamic, gel-filled on the inside so that it conforms to the shape of his head and clings snugly to his bone structure. Combat engineers liked to assure the Marines who wore them that it would take a direct artillery hit to dislodge it from the wearer— that you were more likely to have your head separated from you neck than your helmet from your head. This was supposed to be reassuring. 
Ray's helmet is pitted, scarred by bullet trails, scorched by muzzle flashes. It smells faintly of cordite and anxious sweat. Sitting on the desktop next to his terminal, it looks strange to him, like an alien artifact or a curiosity scavenged from someone else's memory chest. Along the front brim, the desert cloth cover says SGT. MARL in threatening, block letters. The absent OWE is long gone, charred off by a flash bang grenade under circumstances he doesn't even properly remember, except to recall that the Russoturk soldier who threw it surely had meant to toss something else at the time. Combat is full of funny little incidents like that.  He checks the wires from the upload port in the helmet's base to make sure the connection is firm, then slips it on once again. He's been coding the patch between Paraclete's internal network and the helmet's military hardware system for an hour. What was supposed to be a simple integration turned out to be a major mindfuck, and he's watched the display crash half a dozen times since he started. 
Another milestone was the departure of the Simpsons from Riverboro, bag and baggage, the banquet lamp being their most conspicuous possession. It was delightful to be rid of Seesaw's hateful presence; but otherwise the loss of several playmates at one fell swoop made rather a gap in Riverboro's "younger set," and Rebecca was obliged to make friends with the Robinson baby, he being the only long-clothes child in the village that winter. 
The faithful Seesaw had called at the side door of the brick house on the evening before his departure, and when Rebecca answered his knock, stammered solemnly, "Can I k-keep comp'ny with you when you g-g-row up?" "Certainly NOT," replied Rebecca, closing the door somewhat too speedily upon her precocious swain. Mr. Simpson had come home in time to move his wife and children back to the town that had given them birth, a town by no means waiting with open arms to receive them. The Simpsons' moving was presided over by the village authorities and somewhat anxiously watched by the entire neighborhood, but in spite of all precautions a pulpit chair, several kerosene lamps, and a small stove disappeared from the church and were successfully swapped in the course of Mr. Simpson's driving tour from the old home to the new. It gave Rebecca and Emma Jane some hours of sorrow to learn that a certain village in the wake of Abner Simpson's line of progress had acquired, through the medium of an ambitious young minister, a magnificent lamp for its new church parlors. No money changed hands in the operation; for the minister succeeded in getting the lamp in return for an old bicycle. The only pleasant feature of the whole affair was that Mr. Simpson, wholly unable to console his offspring for the loss of the beloved object, mounted the bicycle and rode away on it, not to be seen or heard of again for many a long day. 
“I just went to her house and asked.” 
“What’s she like?” 
I pictured the...  sweater. 
“She’s smart. Tough. Kind of scary.” 
“My dad said she’s a nutcase, but then, he thinks I’m crazy, too. 
Are you okay?” 
“I’m fine. Not really. I’m scared he’ll go to prison.” 
“I’ll be at that rally on Sunday.” 
“What rally?” 
He looked at me, surprised. “In front of the federal building? 
The Minneapolis Nine Solidarity Committee is organizing it.” 
“Are you even paying attention?” Marcella asked, finally notic- ing that we weren’t. 
“At your service,” Nikko said, sweeping his wool cap off his head in an elaborate bow, like he was in Shakespeare play. “Pray, 
madam, read on.” 
She gave him a narrow-eyed look. “So the other alternative . . 
.” she said, droning her way through it all. 
“I figured you were involved,” Nikko said out of the side of his mouth like a film noir gangster, staring at the flowchart as if he found it fascinating. 
“I don’t know any of those people.” 
“They have a website, a Facebook page, a Twitter account, a YouTube channel. Want to come to the rally with me? I’ll pick you up if you want.” 
"David, you're not going to believe where I am," I began, working out my game plan as I went along, trying to sound cool and control my racing pulse. "I'm in northern Guate­mala, at a place that would make a terrific feature. It's like a Maya theme park, deep in the rain forest. But it's real. I want you to contact the embassy and get them to grease the way for my crew to come here. This is too good to pass up." I thought about the costs and then added, "At least one cam­era and sound." 
One sure way to get Sarah out was to blow the place open to the world. 
"What's . . . where are you again?" 
I gave him a glowing trailer of the Williamsburg-like qualities of Baalum—a beautiful, exciting recreation of times gone by that out-Disneyed Disney. The cable channels would be bidding for the footage. 
"Hey, look, all things in time." He wasn't buying. "I'm talking an actual deal here. You know, money? Fuck the jun­gle wonderland. You've got exactly one more day down there on the Tarzan set, or wherever the hell it is, and then I'm gonna start finishing final cut on this damned picture myself. Don't make me have to do that, Morgy. This is not a drill. Nicky Russo came by again yesterday. He's fully prepared to call our note and impound your original negative. It's here, under lock and key, but we've got to get this project in the can and sold." 
> I'm with the Sydney Morning Herald. 
> I'm 17 years old. I'm not a straight-A student or anything. Even so, I figured out how to make an Internet that they can't wiretap. I figured out how to jam their person-tracking technology. I can turn innocent people into suspects and turn guilty people into innocents in their eyes. I could get metal onto an airplane or beat a no-fly list. I figured this stuff out by looking at the web and by thinking about it. If I can do it, terrorists can do it. They told us they took away our freedom to make us safe. Do you feel safe? 
The pirates all laughed. 
More journalists asked questions. Some were sympathetic, some were hostile. When I got tired, I handed my keyboard to Ange and let her be M1k3y for a while. It didn't really feel like M1k3y and me were the same person anymore anyway. M1k3y was the kind of kid who talked to international journalists and inspired a movement. Marcus got suspended from school and fought with his dad and wondered if he was good enough for his kick-ass girlfriend. 
Adorable. 
Barf. 
I sat back and moved some of the textbooks around so I could get comfortable. “Sorry about the mess,” Bree said. “Just throw all that junk on the floor.” 
“How many classes are you going to miss tomorrow?” Nikko asked her. 
“Who gives a shit?” 
We drove on. I was bored and picked through the books. Most of them looked awful, Introduction to Boring Stuff You Didn’t Even Want to Take in the First Place, but one of the books had a Guy Fawkes mask on the cover. Hacker, Hoaxer, Whistleblower, Spy. 
On the back it claimed to be the definitive book about Anony- mous. I wasn’t sure there would ever be such a thing, since nobody could define what Anonymous was, which was kind of the point, but I tipped the book to catch the last of the light fading from the sky. 
“That’s for my sociology course. I haven’t read it yet,” Bree said. “Have you?” 
“No.” I put it down. 
“It’s the one assigned text I actually want to read. Help your- self.” 
“It’s too dark to read,” I said, which was almost true. Nikko shot me another one of those looks. Don’t be a jerk. I stacked the books on the floor of the car, pulled up my hood and curled up with my head on my backpack as if I was going to get some sleep even though I was too nervous, thinking about Wheeze, thinking about Wilson, thinking about how annoying it was to see Bree and Nikko together. In spite of that I eventually drifted off until the rhythm of the car changed, everything swung sideways, and I sat up. Bree was pulling off at an exit to get gas. 
"The rich get richer and the poor get children," Joey Riel said, shaking his head at the investors and the board carrying MacDiarmid off to a private dining room for their dinner and nightly board-meeting. 
"Those Mohawks got you all full of bolshy horseshit, didn't they?" Mortimer said. The Mohawk Warrior Society talked a good anarcho-syndicalist line. Most of the Sovereigns that CogRad unwired were interested in setting up a local telco as part of some economic development scheme -- as far as they were concerned, tax-free packets were the new tax-free cigarettes. 
But the Mohawk Warriors in Quebec were in it for the samizdata. They had big plans for their cognitive radio network. They'd peered with two upstate New York networks and an Algerian satellite backbone, and they were reselling enciphered proxy-time on their network to anyone who wanted it, providing an anonymizing relay for any and all data, regardless of origin, destination or payload. 
Lee-Daniel knew he should have gotten them to pay upfront. Nothing got the blackshirts interested in private wireless networking like routing suspicious real-time chatter between Burmese guerrilla cells and suspected movie-swappers in DC. But that wasn't how CogRadio had been built. The native bands that were desperate enough to assert that their ancestral treaties didn't encompass the RF spectrum couldn't afford to lay out cash for CogRadio's hardware, training and remote administration. CogRadio was as much a bank as a technology startup. 
I was so focused, I pushed the number I had stored for her in my phone memory before I remembered it was Sunday. Instead of getting her office, I got an answering service. 
"Do you want to leave the doctor a message?" a south­ern-sounding voice enquired. 
Without thinking, I heard myself declaring, "No, this is an emergency." 
What am I saying? I asked myself. But before I could take it back, Hannah was on the line. 
I know how intruded on I feel when an actor calls me at home on Sunday to bitch. Better make this good, I told my­self. 
"I was at an infertility clinic yesterday and passed out," I began. "And now I have some herbs to take, but I'm . . . well, I'm not sure about them." 
"What 'clinic'?" she asked. There was no reprimand for calling her on Sunday morning. 
When I told her about Alex Goddard, she said little, but she did not sound impressed. Looming there between us like the dead elephant on the living room floor was the fact that she'd specifically warned me not to go near him. And after what had just happened, there was a good case she might be right. 
"If I could once ketch that consarned old thief," exclaimed Abner righteously, "I'd make him dance,—workin' off a stolen sleigh on me an' takin' away my good money an' cider press, to say nothin' o' my character!" 
"You'll never ketch him, Ab," responded the sheriff. "He's cut off the same piece o' goods as that there cider press and that there character and that there four-seventy-five o' yourn; nobody ever see any of 'em but you, and you'll never see 'em again!" 
Mrs. Simpson, who was decidedly Abner's better half, took in washing and went out to do days' cleaning, and the town helped in the feeding and clothing of the children. George, a lanky boy of fourteen, did chores on neighboring farms, and the others, Samuel, Clara Belle, Susan, Elijah, and Elisha, went to school, when sufficiently clothed and not otherwise more pleasantly engaged. 
There were no secrets in the villages that lay along the banks of Pleasant River. There were many hard-working people among the inhabitants, but life wore away so quietly and slowly that there was a good deal of spare time for conversation,—under the trees at noon in the hayfield; hanging over the bridge at nightfall; seated about the stove in the village store of an evening. These meeting-places furnished ample ground for the discussion of current events as viewed by the masculine eye, while choir rehearsals, sewing societies, reading circles, church picnics, and the like, gave opportunity for the expression of feminine opinion. All this was taken very much for granted, as a rule, but now and then some supersensitive person made violent objections to it, as a theory of life. 
"IN it!" exclaimed uncle Jerry. "I shouldn't be a bit surprised if you had to write the whole paper; an' as for any boy editor, you could lick him writin', I bate ye, with one hand tied behind ye." 
"Can we have a copy of the poetry to keep in the family Bible?" inquired Mrs. Cobb respectfully. 
"Oh! would you like it?" asked Rebecca. "Yes indeed! I'll do a clean, nice one with violet ink and a fine pen. But I must go and look at my poor dress." 
The old couple followed Rebecca into the kitchen. The frock was quite dry, and in truth it had been helped a little by aunt Sarah's ministrations; but the colors had run in the rubbing, the pattern was blurred, and there were muddy streaks here and there. As a last resort, it was carefully smoothed with a warm iron, and Rebecca was urged to attire herself, that they might see if the spots showed as much when it was on. 
They did, most uncompromisingly, and to the dullest eye. Rebecca gave one searching look, and then said, as she took her hat from a nail in the entry, "I think I'll be going. Good-night! If I've got to have a scolding, I want it quick, and get it over." 
“I have been bugging you ever since I found out you existed. Every one of your movements has been logged. I know where you’ve been and when. And I know where my daughter has been, too. Try again.” 
Liam made a disgusted face. “You are a complete ball of shit,” he said. “Where do you get off spying on people like me?” 
“I’m a police detective, Liam,” he said. “It’s my job.” 
“What about privacy?” 
“What have you got to hide?” 
The kid slumped back in his chair. “We’ve been renting out the OLED clothes. Making some pocket money. Come on, are infra-red lights a crime now?” 
“I’m sure they are,” Arturo said. “And if you can’t tell me where to find my daughter, I think it’s a crime I’ll arrest you for.” 
“She has another phone,” Liam said. “Not listed in her name.” 
“Stolen, you mean.” His daughter, peddling Eurasian infowar tech through a stolen phone. His ex-wife, the queen of the super-intelligent hive minds of Eurasian robots. 
“No, not stolen. Made out of parts. There’s a guy. The code for getting on the network was in a phone book that we started finding last month.” 
"Switch off your phone," she said. "You carrying any arphids?" 
I had my student card, my ATM card, my Fast Pass. They all went into a silvered bag she held out, which I recognized as a radio-proof Faraday pouch. But as she put them in her pocket, I realized I'd just turned my ID over to her. If she was on the other side... 
The magnitude of what had just happened began to sink in. In my mind, I'd pictured having Ange with me at this point. Ange would make it two against one. Ange would help me see if there was something amiss. If Masha wasn't all she said she was. 
"Put these pebbles in your shoes before you put them on --" 
"It's OK. I sprained my foot. No gait recognition program will spot me now." 
She nodded once, one pro to another, and slung her pack. I picked up mine and we moved. The total time for the changeover was less than a minute. We looked and walked like two different people. 
She looked at her watch and shook her head. "Come on," she said. "We have to make our rendezvous. Don't think of running, either. You've got two choices now. Me, or jail. They'll be analyzing the footage from that mob for days, but once they're done, every face in it will go in a database. Our departure will be noted. We are both wanted criminals now." 
"Where do you go when you're switched off?" Sean asked. It was a question that was supposed to come later in the interview, maybe on day two, but he was rattled. 
"I don't know. Away." 
"Is it like sleep?" Sean said, forgetting the rule that you never ask the subject a simple yes/no question. His heart thudded in his chest, like he was giving the first interview of his life. 
"No." 
"How is it different from sleep?" Sean asked. 
"I usually switch on for sleep -- my subconscious is pretty good at entertaining me, actually. When I switch off, I just. . . go away. I remember it later, like it was a book that got read directly into my brain, but I'm not there . It's fucking great. You'd love it, Sean. You should get the surgery. I hear that there's a lot of black-market clinics where you can get it done: South-East Asia. The sex-trade, you know." 
Sean struggled to keep the discussion on-track. Grampa was often hostile when he was switched on, and his father always rose to the bait. Sean wasn't going to. "How do you know that you're not there? Maybe you're there the whole time, bored stupid, screaming in frustration, and you forget it all as soon as you switch on?" 
I wasn't too worried about getting caught doing this, because I had good crypto on my side. Crypto is cryptography, or "secret writing," and it's been around since Roman times (literally: Augustus Caesar was a big fan and liked to invent his own codes, some of which we use today for scrambling joke punchlines in email). 
Crypto is math. Hard math. I'm not going to try to explain it in detail because I don't have the math to really get my head around it, either -- look it up on Wikipedia if you really want. 
But here's the Cliff's Notes version: Some kinds of mathematical functions are really easy to do in one direction and really hard to do in the other direction. It's easy to multiply two big prime numbers together and make a giant number. It's really, really hard to take any given giant number and figure out which primes multiply together to give you that number. 
That means that if you can come up with a way of scrambling something based on multiplying large primes, unscrambling it without knowing those primes will be hard. Wicked hard. Like, a trillion years of all the computers ever invented working 24/7 won't be able to do it. 
“My medicine,” I said automatically. That was the right answer, wasn’t it? 
“Good God,” I heard Arthur say grimly, from somewhere northwest of me. “Let’s get you back lying down.” 
I found myself back on my couch covered by a blanket, vaguely aware of Arthur moving around my apartment going through some of my things. He came back just as the shiny was starting to dim a little further. “Need more,” I mumbled. “It should be prettier.” 
“You’re not getting any more of anything, sweetheart. Except water.” 
I could feel a sob welling up; a tantrum to crown all childish tantrums nucleating in my chest. “But I want the pretty!” I insisted. 
Arthur didn’t bother responding. Instead, he sat on me and made a phone call while I threw my tantrum. I remembered I was angry at Arthur, so angry—and I let it all tear out, rain down on his head, the most creative profanities I could construct. 
It didn’t seem like he heard me. In fact, he was yelling, too—things like what-the-hell-happened and for-such-a-smart-guy-you-can-be-really-dumb-sometimes into the phone. Somewhere in there things got hazy again, and I wasn’t sure when the haziness of reality slipped into the haziness of chaotic dreams, dreams filled with men with guns that turned into needles. 
“It seems not.” 
I groaned and stood. “Best get it over with, then. I’ll call him in the morning. You want me to set up a meet with Dawna for you?” 
“Perhaps, but not yet. For now, whatever contact information you have will suffice.” 
I gave him everything I had on her. Embarrassingly, it was precious little, much less than I would usually be comfortable with. Rio didn’t comment, for which I was grateful. 
“Off to try to talk to people, I guess,” I said. “Wish me luck.” 
Rio touched his forehead in a brief salute. “Go with God, Cas.” 
“Yeah. You too.” 
“Oh, and Cas.” I turned back. “Do not concern yourself with defending my honor. It serves no purpose.” 
“La, la, la,” I sang. “I can’t hear you.” I threw him a grin, hoping it looked remotely genuine, and strode off. 
I stole a flashy sports car for the trip back to LA. I wanted to go fast, to feel the wind in my hair and watch the desert whip by too fast to see. 
Dawna Polk had attacked me. Whatever she had done had wormed its way into my brain somehow, twisted my thoughts, manipulated me...beneath my fury lurked a sick sense of violation, an oily stain on my soul. 
She looked too. "Bears shouldn't be that happy," she said. 
Carmela greeted him sunnily as ever, but there was something odd. 
"What is it?"...  both of them were getting rusty, and also it was like a little shared secret between them. 
She shook her head. 
"Is everything all right?" Meaning, Are we being shut down? It could happen, might happen at any time, with no notice. That was something he -- all of them -- understood. The money that powered them was autonomous and unknowable, an alien force that was more emergent property than will. 
She shook her head again. "It's not my place to say," she said. Which made him even more sure that they were all going down, for when had Carmela ever said anything about her place ? 
"Now you've got me worried," he said. 
She cocked her head back toward the back office. He noticed that there were three coats hung on the beautiful, anachronistic coat-stand by the ancient temple door that divided reception from the rest of Ate. 
He let himself in and walked down the glassed-in double-rows of offices, the cubicles in the middle, all with their characteristic spotless hush, like a restaurant dining room set up for the meals that people would come to later. 
Women in mathematics were the minority, and I’d been careful never to use a pronoun so as not to give him any clue. The Lancer knew we were going after Rita Martinez. 
How had he figured it out? Only Arthur, Checker, Halliday, and I knew Martinez was involved at all. And Zhang, but he wouldn’t have told anyone. 
Could the Lancer have made a wild guess based on Martinez’s and Halliday’s friendship, and the fact that they were both in the same subfield? No, that was ridiculous; this problem had a one-in-infinity chance of being solved by anyone, and he would know that. Absent other information, it would be far more likely someone halfway around the world had solved it and was simply keeping an eye on how the U.S. government was responding to a similar proof here in California. 
The Lancer must have used his computer skills somehow. Maybe he’d hacked into communications between Halliday and Martinez, or between Martinez and Zhang, and read between the lines—maybe he’d been convinced by Martinez’s sudden disappearance from Pasadena—hell, maybe he’d hacked Checker’s security system, found the one-time pad, and been reading my encoded messages to Martinez all along. Or maybe he just did know the field that well, and knew Martinez was one of the few people who had any chance of solving this. 
There was nothing in that bottle now but water. Just before dinner she had run up to the cupola, emptied its contents into the sink, and filled it from the tap. 
The idea had come to her when she overheard the two men talking. It had seemed to her then a plain and obvious duty to destroy the drug that so horribly affected Mrs. Quelton. Fate had allowed her to see which bottle it was. Fate gave her an undisturbed half hour when the doctor and Captain Grey were out; and, to make her plan quite perfect, the liquid in the bottle was colorless and almost without odor. 
She had thought it possible that the doctor would not notice the substitution until his unhappy wife had had at least a chance to return to a normal condition. Lexy had meant to wait and to watch, and, when the moment came, to speak to Mrs. Quelton. She had thought that she could warn the doctor’s wife, and implore her not to submit to that hideous domination. 
She had scarcely thought of the risk to herself, and it had not occurred to her that there might be serious risk to Mrs. Quelton. She knew almost nothing about drugs and their effects. Her one idea had been to destroy the thing that was destroying Mrs. Quelton. Only now, when it was done, did she realize the mad audacity of her act. A man like Dr. Quelton couldn’t be tricked by such a childish device. He would know what had happened, and who had done it. Very likely he had plenty more of the drug somewhere else. If he hadn’t— “He’d feel like killing me,” thought Lexy. “I suppose he could, easily enough. He must know all sorts of nice, quiet little ways for getting rid of obnoxious people. Perhaps there was something in my dinner to-night!” 
“But I have stuff to do.” 
“Can’t you do it in the daytime?” 
“Not always.” 
She closed her eyes and pinched the top of her nose with two fingers as if she had a headache up there. “How about a compro- mise. If you’re going to be out, you have to let me know where you are and let me pick you up when you’re done. I know you value your independence, but we have to do something different or . . .” 
Or I’d get sent to a luxurious suburban prison and totally lose any chance I had to help my brother or take down a scumbag rapist. I didn’t have any choice. “Okay, I guess.” 
“Good. That might give me some bargaining power. I’m going to make some herb tea before I tackle the rest of this grading. Do you want some?” 
“You’ve been so busy with your . . .” She made air quotes. 
“Group project. Are things going all right?” 
I shrugged. Having the FBI turn down Nikko’s offer of help was a serious setback. I had no idea if my plan would work, espe- cially since it wouldn’t take long for Jason to wonder what hap- pened to his expensive prototype spy equipment and demand that I give it back. 
changed his encryption key and jacked the minimum message lock requirements from 1028 bits to 2056. He has showered and shaved and changed his clothes so he looks the part of a clean cut CIU operative. Lastly, he has retrieved his service worn Oberon Mark IV Marine pistol, stripped and cleaned it, loaded the magazine and advanced the first cartridge into the firing chamber. It's comforting weight hangs suspended over his left breast in a standard issue tactical harness, reminding him that should he be disturbed, he's authorized— nope, 
make that required— to track down the source of the disturbance and encourage them to unflinchingly adopt the CIU's Code of Silence as a personal standard of conduct. Capital C, capital S, spoken about using that ominous disaster documentary voice. Ray mentally associates the Code with a wet, gurgling noise, the type of sound a lung punctured by a .44 caliber bullet might make as it fills up with blood. 
It takes three minutes of beam bouncing to make a connection with the CIU servers, time Ray uses to reconfigure the angle and depth of his terminal's pinpoint camera. Since this is partly about making an impression, he'd prefer to not show the officer that picks up the line his piles of dirty laundry and as yet unmade bed. 
Then she heard Captain Grey’s voice speaking. 
“My dear, my dear!” he said. “Can I do anything in the world for you? My dear!” 
There was no answer. Lexy crossed the room to the window and looked out. The balcony, too, was dim, with Venetian blinds drawn down on every side, and on a narrow cot lay Muriel Quelton. There was a bandage over her forehead and covering her hair, and under it her face had a mystic and terrible beauty. She was as white as a ghost, with great dark circles beneath her eyes; and she was so still—so utterly still—that Lexy was stricken with terror. 
Captain Grey was sitting beside her in a low chair, holding one of her lifeless hands, and Lexy saw on his face such anguish as she had never looked upon before. 
“My dear!” he said again. 
Her weary eyes opened and looked up at him. Then the shadow of a smile crossed her face. 
“Stay!” she whispered. 
Lexy drew nearer. Tears were running down her cheeks. She tried to read the nurse’s face, but she could not. 
“How is—she—getting on?” she asked, speaking very low. 
He barely hesitated. “Yes.” 
“Off the text I sent you?” 
“Yes.” 
I swallowed. 
“Cas, if it helps, they were not the wrong people.” 
I thought about how young the receptionist had been. Whatever mistakes she had made, her youth had not excused her from Rio wreaking God’s vengeance. 
“Cas?” he said. 
“Did you learn anything?” I asked quietly. 
“Yes. Many things.” 
“You aren’t going to tell me what they are, are you.” 
“I would hardly have gone to such lengths to keep them from you only to divulge them later,” he answered. 
I thought of the shredded and pulped papers. “Right.” 
“What you shared with me today is valuable also,” said Rio. “I shall put it to good use. And although I cannot say for sure, I do not believe Dawna Polk has influenced you further.” 
“Oh...good. Thanks.” 
“Of course.” 
“Are you trying to take down Pithica?” I asked. 
“Yes.” 
“And you want me to stay out of it.” 
“Yes. Will you?” 
I closed my eyes. I had no leads. Tresting wasn’t talking to me. Courtney was gone. Rio wouldn’t help me. I had no allies, and nothing to follow up on. 
“So you knew about the noobs in the cottages?” 
“Um. Well, yeah, I figured it out mostly on my own and then Raymond told me a little more.” 
“And you’re fine with depriving little kids of their wages?” 
“Anda,” Lucy said, her voice brittle. “You like gaming, right, it’s important to you?” 
“Yeah, ‘course it is.” 
“How important? Is it something you do for fun, just a hobby you waste a little time on? Are you just into it casually, or are you committed to it?” 
“I know that. That’s why you’re my right-hand woman, why I want you at my side when I go on a mission. We’re bad-ass, you and me, as bad-ass as they come, and we got that way through discipline and hard work and really caring about the game, right?” 
“Yes, right, but—” 
“You’ve met Liza the Organiza, right?” 
“Yes, she came by my school.” 
“Mine too. She asked me to look out for you because of what she saw in you that day.” 
“Liza the Organiza goes to Ohio?” 
“Idaho. Yes—all across the US. They put her on the tube and everything. She’s amazing, and she cares about the game, too—that’s what makes us all Fahrenheits: we’re committed to each other, to teamwork, and to fair play.” 
I turned to call to Tresting, but the PI had woken at the sound of his name. He came back over to stand behind me. “What is it?” 
Checker reached out and smacked the side of a screen I couldn’t see. “The GPS tracker. We lost the signal.” 
Tresting cursed as well and dug into his pocket, pulling out the receiver to check for himself. He cursed again. “What happened?” 
“Dunno,” said Checker. “Could be a malfunction. Could be interference. Could be they went down in the Gulf of Mexico.” His attention was still on one of his other monitors, his fingers clicking so rapidly on a mouse that he resembled a telegraph operator. “Me, I’d bet on the cynical side. Even if our girl passed the tracker and it landed in a toilet, it still should’ve kept the signal on the plane for us.” 
Tresting sank into his office chair. “After all that, she disappears.” 
I wondered if my client was dead. I tried not to think about it. 
“They didn’t file a flight plan, but the great circle trajectory would have led over Colombia,” Checker said. “Just saying. It might be where they were headed.” 
And he launches a utility downloaded from his terminal that he has pragmatically named Dialogue Transform. 
Master File 7244 Ident Struct contains nearly a thousand sub-files, each of them given unwieldy kernel structure names that specify data apprehension and processing activities. To anyone who was not a system vet, 
this would appear unimaginably daunting and arcane. It is the raw face of an AI software conglomerate. 
He selects the sub-file which governs verbal command input and copies the Dialogue Transform utility into the Primary Mediator system. It takes him several minutes of additional voice recog coding to mesh his program and the AI's, then several more to move his work from its original location in the base code to another one that makes more sense in the grand tumble of subroutines. Eventually, there are patches generated between dictionary files and dynamic links created between processing and decision systems. Ray codes half a dozen dirty routines that not even he's certain he understands, and in the end, he feels something like a shivering,...  waters as the tide creeps out. 
“I’m leaving in five days,” she said. 
“The kind of favor I had in mind from you was the kind of favor that you could perform the day after tomorrow.” 
“And you’d take care of my family?” 
“I would do that,” he said. “I always take care of my assistants’ families. Do we have an agreement?” 
She stuck her hand out and they shook. 
“Eat your dumplings,” he said. “And then we’ll get you some things to take home to your family.” 
Two days after the wizard agreed to take care of Valentine’s family, the fever had become her constant companion, so omnipresent that it she hardly noticed it, though it made her walk like an old woman and she sometimes had trouble focusing her eyes. 
She arose that morning and feasted on brown rolls with hard crusts, small citrus cakes, green beef tea, porridge with currants and blueberry concentrate and...  bun to top it off. 
Trover ate even more than she did, licking up the crumbs. She saw him hide two of the jackfruits under his shirt and nodded satisfaction—he had learned something about surviving, then. 
“I feel bad, too. When Emily told me, I just avoided Simon after that. I didn’t tell anybody or do anything to stop him. Which is dumb, because it felt like I was protecting Emily, but really it just meant he got away with it while she got to feel ashamed and lonely. But then hearing about that other girl - she’s really young and she’s so completely messed up about it. And scared that her parents will find out, like it was her fault.” 
“Man.” Nikko looked pained, then he sat up straight and looked happy again, rubbing his hands together. “Okay, let’s mess him up. How do we do this?” 
“First, I have to do some research. Like, is there a law against recording people secretly? What about lying to federal officers?” 
“Who says I’d be lying? Let’s say I get talking to Simon about how screwed up everything is and he starts saying violence is nec- essary, because he likes to brag about doing things he would never actually do. And we talk, and he starts to get more detailed, and I get the feeling he really does want to blow something up. 
Google is a virtual monopsony. At least that’s the argument I’m going to make in my macro econ paper. Knowing the prof, I’ll probably get an F.” She seemed proud of that possibility. 
“Remind me to never sign up for that course,” Nikko said. 
“He’s such a capitalist tool. I’m only taking it to get a gen ed out of the way. Everything else was full or offered at, like, eight in the morning. I’m so not a morning person,” she said to me, being nice. 
“Me either,” I mumbled. 
“Nikko tells me you code. What kind of stuff do you do?” 
“I’m still in high school, so mostly I do stupid homework.” 
“God, I hated high school,” she said. 
“I knew you two would hit it off. You have so much in com- mon,” Nikko said. Then he rubbed the back of his neck, as if he could feel the heat of my laser-like glare. 
We drove out of town and down the highway. Nikko warned Bree not to go so fast, and she argued it would look suspicious if we were traveling way slower than everyone else. They negotiated a settlement, no more than ten miles over the speed limit. Then they squabbled over what music to play, joking about each other’s terrible taste. It was adorable. I felt like barfing. 
“Then let’s go upstairs and see her. The doctor has gone out.” 
“But the nurse—” 
“Put on your best commanding officer’s air,” said Lexy. “You can be awfully impressive when you like. If I were you, there’s nothing I’d stop at.” 
“Yes, but look here—what can I say to Quelton when he hears about it?” 
“Laugh it off,” said Lexy. 
The idea of Captain Grey trying to laugh off anything made her grin from ear to ear. 
“Not much of a joke, though, is it?” he said rather stiffly. “Suppose he hoofs us out of the house?” 
“Oh, dear!” cried Lexy. “You’re not a bit resourceful! Let’s try it, anyhow. It’s horrible to think of her shut up like that. Perhaps she’s longing to see you.” 
He rose. 
“Right-o!” he said. “Let’s try it!” 
Together they went up the stairs and down the hall of the other wing, opposite that in which Lexy’s room was. Captain Grey knocked on a door, and a quiet, middle-aged little nurse came out. 
“I’ll just pop in to see how my sister’s getting on,” said the young man, and Lexy silently applauded his toploftical manner. 
"Then I think I'll go," Emma says, hardly more than a whisper. "The children have been fed, of course, and Leela is putting the younger ones down for their nap. I've told them not to disturb you. I should be back in time for their afternoon lessons." 
"I trust Mr. Marlowe will help you keep track of the time." Pregnant pause, almost amused. "And return you in decent order. " 
Ugh. 
Emma sweeps toward her and kisses her cheek warmly, on the verge of glee, or imitating glee to dissuade her from changing her mind. The old woman clutches at her in an embrace that resembles a mudslide as Emma whispers what Ray guesses must be gratitude or groveling in her ear. Amah's heavy lidded gaze never leaves him, claws at him like an accusation of rape. 
Impending rape at best, he wants to remind her, but doesn't. 
And Miss I-don't-rea//y-wear-the-pants-in-this-household Nanny might just be rudely surprised by whose name would appear in the security report as the perpetrator of any sexual aggression that might occur. 
Someone screamed. 
I turned to see a dark-skinned, curly-haired woman with her hands over her mouth. “You caught her!” she shrieked at the security guards. “The psycho from the paper! You caught her!” 
A lot of people were suddenly staring at us. The security guards looked thrown, as if this was more than they’d bargained for when they’d had the gumption to detain me for suspected underage drinking. 
“Everybody stay calm,” declared the female guard. 
“Oh my God,” breathed her colleague, the blood draining from his face as he took in my features. “She does look like it.” 
“Look like who?” the female guard demanded tensely. 
“The—the woman who killed all those people—” 
The two guards began backing away from me, clearly deeming that their rent-a-cop duties weren’t worth risking their lives against a homicidal maniac. The woman had her walkie at her mouth again and was speaking very fast. It might have been a coincidence, but I heard sirens start up from not too far away. 
A fair crowd of not-very-bright onlookers now surrounded me at a healthy radius. Some people pulled frantically at their children and hurried away; others stared blatantly. I saw at least two people surreptitiously pull out mobile phones. 
Kate shoved them back. 
“Leave her alone,” Robbie said. “She’s upset, can’t you see that?” 
“What does she have to be upset about? Her kind remade the universe and bends it to its will. They created you and me. She has nothing to be upset about. Come on,” they repeated. “Let’s go back to the room.” 
Kate stood up and glared out at the sea. “Let’s go diving,” she said. “Let’s go to the reef.” 
Robbie rowed in little worried circles and watched his telemetry anxiously. The reef had changed a lot since the last time he’d seen it. Large sections of it now lifted over the sea, bony growths sheathed in heavy metals extracted from sea-water—fancifully shaped satellite uplinks, radio telescopes, microwave horns. Down below, the untidy, organic reef shape was lost beneath a cladding of tessellated complex geometric sections that throbbed with electromagnetic energy—the reef had built itself more computational capacity. 
Robbie scanned deeper and found more computational nodes extending down to the ocean floor, a thousand meters below. The reef was solid thinkum, and the sea was measurably warmer from all the exhaust heat of its grinding logic. 
"You tried to be funny about joy and duty," said Miss Dearborn reprovingly; "so of course you didn't succeed." 
"I didn't know you were going to make us read the things out loud," said Rebecca with an embarrassed smile of recollection. 
"Joy and Duty" had been the inspiring subject given to the older children for a theme to be written in five minutes. 
Rebecca had wrestled, struggled, perspired in vain. When her turn came to read she was obliged to confess she had written nothing. 
"You have at least two lines, Rebecca," insisted the teacher, "for I see them on your slate." 
"I'd rather not read them, please; they are not good," pleaded Rebecca. 
"Read what you have, good or bad, little or much; I am excusing nobody." 
Dick Carter's head disappeared under the desk, while Living Perkins choked with laughter. 
Miss Dearborn laughed too; she was little more than a girl, and the training of the young idea seldom appealed to the sense of humor. 
"You must stay after school and try again, Rebecca," she said, but she said it smilingly. "Your poetry hasn't a very nice idea in it for a good little girl who ought to love duty." 
The ceaseless care was growing less now, and the family breathed more freely, for the mother's sigh of pain no longer came from the stifling bedroom, where, during a hot and humid August, Aurelia had lain, suffering with every breath she drew. 
There would be no question of walking for many a month to come, but blessings seemed to multiply when the blinds could be opened and the bed drawn near the window; when mother, with pillows behind her, could at least sit and watch the work going on, could smile at the past agony and forget the weary hours that had led to her present comparative ease and comfort. 
No girl of seventeen can pass through such an ordeal and come out unchanged; no girl of Rebecca's temperament could go through it without some inward repining and rebellion. She was doing tasks in which she could not be fully happy,—heavy and trying tasks, which perhaps she could never do with complete success or satisfaction; and like promise of nectar to thirsty lips was the vision of joys she had had to put aside for the performance of dull daily duty. How brief, how fleeting, had been those splendid visions when the universe seemed open for her young strength to battle and triumph in! How soon they had faded into the light of common day! At first, sympathy and grief were so keen she thought of nothing but her mother's pain. No consciousness of self interposed between her and her filial service; then, as the weeks passed, little blighted hopes began to stir and ache in her breast; defeated ambitions raised their heads as if to sting her; unattainable delights teased her by their very nearness; by the narrow line of separation that lay between her and their realization. It is easy, for the moment, to tread the narrow way, looking neither to the right nor left, upborne by the sense of right doing; but that first joy of self-denial, the joy that is like fire in the blood, dies away; the path seems drearier and the footsteps falter. 
It was after breakfast the next morning. Mr. Enderby had gone to his office, and Mrs. Enderby and Lexy were alone in the dining room. There was an odd sort of friendliness between them. Lexy felt no constraint in asking questions. 
“There isn’t any letter this morning, is there, Mrs. Enderby?” 
“There is not.” 
“Then I suppose you’re going to tell Mr. Enderby?” 
“This evening.” 
“And then?” 
“Then I shall be guided by his advice,” Mrs. Enderby replied blandly. 
Lexy could have smiled at this. She knew how likely Mrs. Enderby was to be guided by her husband; but she kept the smile and the thought to herself. 
“I don’t want to interfere with your plans—” she began. 
“I have no plans.” 
“I mean, if you’re going to take steps to find her—” 
“My child,” said Mrs. Enderby, “it is clear that you wish to amuse yourself with a grand mystery. I tell you there is no mystery, but you do not believe me. I ask you to say nothing of this matter, but you refuse. So I say to you now—go your own way, proceed with your mystery. I do not think you can hurt me very much.” 
"You haven't." 
A nice, Mafia shrug. "I seen nothin'." 
Frankie steps aside so they can fold themselves into the booth, well apart from the dozen or so other customers in the room. "Gino will be with in a moment. Might I recommend the house special?"  Ray doesn't know what the special is, but he nods anyway. 
Emma watches them go, then leans forward with her elbows on the table. "You come here often?" 
"Frankie takes care of me." 
"He isn't Italian, I don't think." 
"Don't tell him that. You'll destroy his confidence." Ray presses close, lowers his voice. "This is his first franchise voyage. He's made amazing leaps since Terra, believe me." 
Then, "You've never been here before?" 
Ray lifts an eyebrow. "And you never go anywhere without his escort?" 
"Not if they can stop me. " 
Like the other morning, she means. It sits there plainly between them, but Ray doesn't know how to make her actually say it, recognize it. 
"Your family seems to be heavily invested in protecting you." Big sign, red letters, neon flash: Watch Out for Thin Ice. Ray prepares to wince as she cuts him down. 
<wheeze> no words <zen> Kids are mean. I knew that, but I just couldn't go back there. I went to Monica's instead and had a total meltdown. 
<wheeze> this makes me so mad I could seri- ously become non-non-violent . 
<zen> I'm sorry I'm being so messed up about things . 
<wheeze> What's messed up is that stuff like that happens. Not you. 
<zen> He actually tried to apologize to me later. I ran into him in a bookstore last year and he said "I'm sorry you were so upset." 
WTF? ? ! ! 
<wheeze> And yet you let him live? 
<zen> I was feeling generous. Also, I was afraid I'd get carried away and destroy the bookstore . 
<wheeze> I would consider that acceptable collateral damage. 
<zen> I've been thinking - would it be okay if I visited you instead? 
<wheeze> That would be incredibly great. 
<zen> Don't you have to ask Jane Shandy? 
<wheeze> I'll just hide her shotgun. (Not really. She says it's fine.) 
<zen> And can Nikko and Bree come? Because Bree's spring break is coming up and she has a car . 
“I ain’t so much of a talker,” he said. 
That was true, too. He was reluctant, to-day, to talk about his strange adventure with the cab on the hill; but Lexy made him answer her questions, and he wavered in no respect from his first version. 
“There was an inquest, an’ all,” he said. “I’m darned glad it’s all over!” 
“It isn’t!” thought Lexy. “Somehow it belongs with other things. It’s a piece of the puzzle. I can’t fit it in now, but I will some day!” 
So she thanked Joe, and paid him for last night’s trip, though he made miserable and embarrassed efforts to stop her. Then she set off on her way. 
It was four o’clock by her watch when she reached the garden gate. She stopped for a moment with her hand on the latch, and, in spite of herself, a little shiver ran through her. The battered old house in the tangled garden looked more menacing to-day, in the tranquil spring sunshine, than it had in the rain. It was utterly lonely and quiet. Lexy could hear nothing but the distant sound of the surf, which was like the beating of a tired heart. 
We were headed down the street, me digging out my keys, when I noticed the man standing in the rain. He was just behind our lead van, a three-year-old gray Ford, waiting for us. 
My first thought was he must be connected to Nicky Russo, David's wiseguy banker, here to bust my chops over the Teamster issue. Screw him. Just my luck he'd send some­body the very day Lou was not on hand. But then I realized I'd guessed wrong. The man was more Hispanic than Italian. He also was short, solidly built, late fifties maybe, with in­tense eyes and gray hair that circled his balding pate like the dirty snow around a volcano's rim. As he moved toward us, I thought I detected something military in his bearing, not so much the crispness of a soldier but rather the authoritative swagger of an officer. Well, maybe a retired officer. 
"The paper on your windshield says you are filming a movie," came a voice...  no hiya, how're you doin'? Just the blunt state­ment. Then, having established what was already clear to all at hand, he continued. "It says the title is Baby Love . Why are you making this movie here?" 
Chances were, there was nothing I could do about it. 
I finished the working day by pretending to clear enough of my workspace to write a script to finish clearing my workspace. There was a "clear all alerts" command, but it didn't work on Drop Everything Tell You Three Times Chernobyl Alerts, and every goddamned one of my alerts had risen to that level. Have I mentioned that programmers are imperfect? 
I will tell you a secret of the sysadmin trade: PEBKAC. Problem Exists Between Keyboard and Chair. Every technical problem is the result of a human being mispredicting what another human being will do. Surprised? You shouldn't be. Think of how many bad love affairs, wars, con jobs, traffic wrecks and bar-fights are the result of mispredicting what another human being is likely to do. We humans are supremely confident that we know how others will react. We are supremely, tragically wrong about this. We don't even know how we will react. Sysadmins live in the turbulent waters PEBKAC. Programmers think that PEBKAC is just civilians, just users. Sysadmins know better. Sysadmins know that programmers are as much a part of the problem between the chair and the keyboard as any user is. They write the code that gets the users into so much trouble. 
He's been all over this data, and there's nothing here. Or maybe there is something here, and he's just not seeing it because he's a hardware guy, he's a techie. He is anything but a forensic scientist who knows what nuances are likely to be missed. And he's precluded by case sensitivity from enlisting an actual forensic scientist because if he missed something, and that something happens to be easy for the trained eye to spot (as well as perfectly understandable given the proximity of Frederick Whiston's DNA to the victim's DNA), then the forensic scientist in question is going to get the hit Ray is missing. And when the match comes up as Frederick's or Emma's or anyone else's associated with the Whiston household, it will only be a matter of hours before everyone knows that the EED is investigating the Whistons in the first place. The tabloids don't care that it is just as vital in any investigation to rule suspects out as it is to rule them in-only that celebrities are mentioned in conjunction with the investigation in the first place. 
I thought about searching the other two vehicles, but I hadn’t done great with the van, and even as isolated as this place was, we’d made a lot of noise. The cops might be on their way. I’d dallied here too long already. 
I pushed my Colt back into my belt, got into the third SUV, and drove away. 
The bad guys—whoever they were—had put a tracker on their own van. They could probably find the SUV I was in, too. I stopped five streets over in a run-down residential area and stole a rusted junkpot from in front of a house that had grass that was far too long and cement blocks scattered in the yard. Then I hit the freeway, jumped down three exits, pulled off in a strip mall, and grabbed an inconspicuous Honda. 
I was a long way out of LA proper and far from any of my bolt holes. I stopped at a drugstore and bought gauze, antiseptic, and a few other random first-aid supplies, using the self-checkout so I didn’t get any nosy questions from a cashier. Then I went back to the Honda, sat in the driver’s seat, and patched myself up, taping a dressing over the wound on my shoulder and wrapping the burned hand. The burn was an odd sort of discomfort—half pain and half numbness, with a stinging sensation underneath. I put it out of my head. 
“He’s good at fixing things,” I said. 
“I have an old pedal sewing machine that isn’t working right. 
Can you repair it?” He nodded. “What else are you good at?” 
“Screen printing. Making soup.” 
“Reading incredibly long books about the history of debt,” I added. 
“Debt?” 
“It’s more interesting than it sounds,” Wheeze said. 
“Well, I got a lot of old books and no time to read them. If you record them for me, I can listen while I do the chores.” 
“Deal.” He held out a hand and she slapped her palm into it, 
sealing the arrangement with a shake that made him wince. “You guys? Thanks,” he added, looking at Nikko and Bree, then at me. 
We looked at each other for a minute. 
“Stay safe,” I said, feeling a falling sensation inside, as sudden and shocking as plunging deep into a cold pool. I suddenly real- ized how much I would miss messing around with Wheeze. Given that he was wanted by the FBI, just like my brother, and probably faced years and years of prison if they caught him, I wasn’t sure if we’d ever hang out together again. It had been such a relief to find him that I‘d forgotten how much trouble he still faced. 
"I don' know how 'tis," grumbled Miranda, who was not able to sit up that day; "but from a child I could never lay abed without Aurelia's gettin' sick too. I don' know 's she could help fallin', though it ain't anyplace for a woman,—a haymow; but if it hadn't been that, 't would 'a' been somethin' else. Aurelia was born unfortunate. Now she'll probably be a cripple, and Rebecca'll have to nurse her instead of earning a good income somewheres else." 
"Her first duty 's to her mother," said aunt Jane; "I hope she'll always remember that." 
"Nobody remembers anything they'd ought to,—at seventeen," responded Miranda. "Now that I'm strong again, there's things I want to consider with you, Jane, things that are on my mind night and day. We've talked 'em over before; now we'll settle 'em. When I'm laid away, do you want to take Aurelia and the children down here to the brick house? There's an awful passel of 'em,—Aurelia, Jenny, and Fanny; but I won't have Mark. Hannah can take him; I won't have a great boy stompin' out the carpets and ruinin' the furniture, though I know when I'm dead I can't hinder ye, if you make up your mind to do anything." 
Randy stood up from the table. Bulky figures stepped out of the shadows behind them. Behind their armor, the Securitat people could have been white or black, old or young. Lawrence could only treat them as Securitat. He rose slowly from his chair and put his arms out, as though surrendering. As soon as the Securitat officers relaxed by a tiny hair -- treating him as someone who was surrendering -- he dropped backwards over the chair behind him, knocking over a little two-seat table and whacking his head on the floor so hard it rang like a gong. He scrambled to his feet and charged pell-mell for the door, sweeping the empty tables out of the way as he ran. 
He caught a glimpse of the pretty waitress standing by her podium at the front of the restaurant as he banged out the door, her eyes wide and her hands up as though to ward off a blow. He caromed off the wall of the dark corridor and ran for the glass door that led out to Second Avenue, where cars hissed by in the night. 
He made it onto the sidewalk, crashed into a burly man in a Mets cap, bounced off him, and ran downtown, the people on the sidewalk leaping clear of him. He made it two whole storefronts -- all the running around on the Campus handball courts had given him a pretty good pace and wind -- before someone tackled him from behind. 
“We’ll take the BFG10K.” Anda could hear the savage grin in her voice. 
The BFG10K simplified things quite a lot. Find the cottage, aim the BFG10K, fire it, whim-wham, no more cottage. They started with five bolts for it—one BFG10K bolt was made up of 20 regular BFG bolts, each costing a small fortune in gold—and used them all up on the first three targets. After returning it to the armory and grabbing a couple of BFGs (amazing how puny the BFG seemed after just a couple hours’ campaigning with a really big gun!) they set out for number four. 
“I met a guy after the last campaign,” Anda said. “One of the noobs in the cottage. He said he was a union organizer.” 
“Oh, you met Raymond, huh?” 
“You knew about him?” 
“I met him too. He’s been turning up everywhere. What a creep.” 
“So you knew about the noobs in the cottages?” 
“Um. Well, yeah, I figured it out mostly on my own and then Raymond told me a little more.” 
“And you’re fine with depriving little kids of their wages?” 
“Anda,” Lucy said, her voice brittle. “You like gaming, right, it’s important to you?” 
“But first I’d be on film saying I’m just kidding. So.” 
“So, you’d still be in the slammer while they built a case against you. A case they might win.” 
“Wait,” I said so loudly my voice echoed. It suddenly felt like my synapses were firing all at once, a zinging feeling as they lit up and connected and I glimpsed a whole, beautiful plan that took care of everything. I took a gulp from my bottle, forgetting it was beer and setting off a coughing fit. Geoff patted me on the back. 
“What if we start with our own informant,” I said. “A concerned citizen who sees something and says something? Because I know the perfect pseudo-terrorist he can report to the feds. Then all we have to do is give the concerned citizen a camera to document it all as the feds set up a bust.” 
They all stared at me and I couldn’t help laughing, pleased with how it all clicked into place. I knew who could play the role of concerned citizen, and I knew someone who would brag about his activist credentials and talk about committing a violent act with a little encouragement. The best thing about it was that the pseudo-terrorist I had in mind totally deserved to be locked up. 
I don’t have a lot of keys on my keychain - just a couple of house keys and the one for my bike lock, along with the little pen- light - but I arranged what I had so that they stuck out between my knuckles. I’d read it was more effective to punch somebody in the face that way. 
He finally reached me and I felt my heart racing as he leaned close. “You know a girl named Zen?” Up close his face was a map of seams and fissures and his breath smelled like a dumpster. 
“Why do you want to know?” 
He grinned and I saw he was missing a lot of teeth. “Gotcha.” 
He leered like an evil jack-o-lantern and reached into his coat. I tightened my fist and imagined smashing my keys into his eyes. 
He held out a crumpled Pizza Hut flyer in his hand. “Go on, 
take it.” He sounded irritated and impatient. Like, why can’t you follow my simple instructions? Like he wasn’t too crazy about being in a hostile crowd of hipster college students. 
I took it and turned it over. I saw enough to stuff it into my pocket. “Thanks. Is he — “You just tell him I done what I said I’d do.” 
assassinations, terrorist actions that might bring leadership to the region that was not such a willing tool in the shed's hands." 
"Oh hell!" Ray barks back. "You make him sound like a terrorist for peace, Jack. The Mikhail Brezhnaya I read about in the papers was not a nice guy. He was a very bad guy, in fact, who needed to have a bullet put in his head." 
"I wouldn't be so quick to judge him, my friend. Not until you've lived his life." 
"Oh, cry me a freaking river. He was a dangerous, antisocial misanthropist, and you know it." 
"He was also a man who buried his entire family in the name of war. Three daughters, two sons, all under the age of twelve. His wife was purged by his own government for reasons which are not immediately clear, but which we suspect had something to do with a tactical failure that Brezhnaya contributed to. They wanted to send him a message to pay more attention to his work. He was a loyal soldier who found the old axiom that war is a sword that cuts both ways to be horribly true." Holcomb shrugs, as if these are things he doesn't expect Ray to understand. "I won't argue that he wasn't a monster, but he had his reasons. Any one of us who wears the uniform could just as easily follow the same path if we were forced to endure so much despair. 
If you have ever observed how courteous and gracious and mannerly you feel when you don a beautiful new frock; if you have ever noticed the feeling of reverence stealing over you when you close your eyes, clasp your hands, and bow your head; if you have ever watched your sense of repulsion toward a fellow creature melt a little under the exercise of daily politeness, you may understand how the adoption of the outward and visible sign has some strange influence in developing the inward and spiritual state of which it is the expression. 
It is only when one has grown old and dull that the soul is heavy and refuses to rise. The young soul is ever winged; a breath stirs it to an upward flight. Rebecca was asked to bear witness to a state of mind or feeling of whose existence she had only the vaguest consciousness. She obeyed, and as she uttered words they became true in the uttering; as she voiced aspirations they settled into realities. 
As "dove that to its window flies," her spirit soared towards a great light, dimly discovered at first, but brighter as she came closer to it. To become sensible of oneness with the Divine heart before any sense of separation has been felt, this is surely the most beautiful way for the child to find God. 
"Do not." 
"Yeah-huh." 
"He only kisses her 'cause her dad would have him put in prison if he blasted her. " A different boy this time, 
looking very thoughtful about his contribution to the discussion. 
But John Robert shakes his head. "Why would he care about that? He knows how to escape from the prison. 
Remember when Carok made that clone of King Tayne and kidnapped him? The clone put Shadow in the prison and he was only there for about five minutes before he escaped." 
It goes on. On and on, for almost fifteen minutes while the episode they had intended to watch clamors on in the background, unnoticed. Ray pitches in where he can get a word, not certain whether he's inciting them or settling some of the more finely nuanced points of contention. He attempts to argue the pro-kissing position, 
but it's a difficult sell with this audience. The consensus opinion seems to be that most soldiers would rather blast girls than kiss them. He's on the verge of offering some intimate anecdotal evidence to the contrary, but Emma gives him a sharp jab to the ribs with her elbow before he can get properly started. 
He smiled lazily, then reached for my shirt with clumsy hands, 
trying to unbutton it. I pushed them away and slid toward the edge of the bed, but he grabbed my wrist, tight. “Where you going?” 
“Too much wine.” I giggled like a maniac, resisting the urge to yank my wrist out of his grasp. “Got to use the john again. I’ll be right back.” 
He pulled my hand close and gave my knuckles a romantic kiss, but his words sounded angry. “Don’t be long.” 
“I won’t!” My giggling threatened to get out of control as I hur- ried through the kitchen into the little bathroom. I locked myself on in and sat on the toilet, shaking. In the other room I heard his slurring sing-song voice, “Hey, getting lonely out here.” 
“Just a minute,” I called out, staring at the door. It was a flimsy little lock. I remembered how strong his hands had felt. One good pull and he would be able to yank it open. There was a window over the toilet, but it was tiny, much too small for me to climb through. 
I remembered to switch off the camera, finally, and looked around for a weapon. There was a can of Axe I could spray into his eyes. If I broke the spotty mirror over the sink, I might be able to pull out a shard to stab him with. I could probably find a knife in the kitchen but I was too scared to unlock the door. 
“Yes,” said Lexy. “Aren’t you the driver who took me up the day I came here?” 
“That’s me—only taxi in Wyngate. Took you out to the Queltons’, too. Hop in, miss!” 
His engine had stalled, and he set to work to crank it, while Lexy stood beside him. 
“Drive awfully fast, will you?” she asked. 
He was too busy to answer for a moment. Then, when his engine was running again, he straightened up and looked at her. 
“No, ma’am!” he said firmly. “No more of that for me! Not after what happened a while ago. No, ma’am! I had my lesson!” 
“An accident?” inquired Lexy politely. 
“Well,” he said slowly, “I s’pose it was; but the more I think it over, the more I dunno!” 
In the brightness cast by the headlights, Lexy could see his face very well, and the look on it gave her a strange little thrill of fear. It was not a handsome or intelligent face, but it was a very honest one, and she saw, written plain upon it, a very honest doubt and dismay. Like herself, he wasn’t sure. 
“It was this way,” he went on. “About three miles up Carterstown way there’s a bad piece of road. There’s a steep hill, and a crossroad cuts across the foot of it, and it’s too narrer for two cars to pass. It’s a bad piece, and I always been keerful there. I was keerful that night. I was coming along the crossroad, and I heard another car somewhere, and I sounded the horn two or three times before I come to the foot of the hill. Jest as I got there, and was turning up the hill, down comes another car, full tilt. I couldn’t git out o’ the way. There’s stone walls on both sides. I tried to back, but he crashed into me. I kind of fainted, I guess. My cab was all smashed up, and I was cut pretty bad with glass. They found me lying there about an hour after. The other fellow—he was killed.” He stopped for a minute. “If it hadn’t been fer his license number, nobody could ’a’ known who he was, he was so smashed up. Seems he was from New York, driving a taxi belonging to one of them big companies.” 
"Greg, can I see you, please?" 
The rumpled man hadn't shaved in a couple of days. He put an arm around Greg's shoulders and Greg smelled his citrusy aftershave. It was the same cologne that his divemaster in Baja had worn when they went out to the bars in the evening. Greg couldn't remember his name. Juan-Carlos? Juan-Luis? 
The man's arm around his shoulders was firm, steering him away from the door, out onto the immaculate lawn, past the kitchen's herb garden. "We're giving you a couple of days off," he said. 
Greg felt a cold premonition that sank all the way to his balls. "Why?" Had he done something wrong? Was he going to jail? 
"It's Maya." The man turned him around, met his eyes with his bottomless basset-hound gaze. "It's Maya. Killed herself. In Guatemala. I'm sorry, Greg." 
Greg seemed to hurtle away from himself, to a place miles above, a Google Earth view of the Googleplex, looking down on himself and the rumpled man as a pair of dots, two pixels, tiny and insignificant. He willed himself to tear at his hair, to drop to his knees and weep. 
“Get off.” I tried to shoulder his hand away; the ceiling slipped sideways again. 
“You ain’t have to take this job,” Arthur said from somewhere up and to my right. “Forget it. Ain’t no problem.” 
At least, that was what his words said. But his voice was tight and desperate, as if the list of people he thought could help his friend began and ended with me. 
“Fine,” I ground out. “I’ll help.” 
The tension went out of him where he was still touching my arm, and I hated myself. “Sweetheart, I could kiss you,” he said. 
“Don’t push your luck.” 
Still keeping a supporting hand on my elbow, Arthur pulled out his wallet and threw a handful of bills on the bar. “Come on, let me drive you home. I’ll tell you more on the way.” 
“My car is here,” I said. 
His eyes slipped back to my seventeen shot glasses lined up in neat groups on the bar. “Ex-cop here. Humor me.” 
“I hate cops.” 
“Me too.” Something dark flickered in Arthur’s eyes. I’d never found out why he’d left the force, and even I, Queen of Social Disgraces, had eventually clued in I shouldn’t ask about it. 
I looked down at Martinez. If she’d had the proof, she’d destroyed the only copy, and now had the temerity to take it with her in death. If she’d never had it... 
The roller coaster of emotion I’d been on the past few days rippled through me like an echo, then drained away, leaving me empty. 
If she’d never had the proof, there was a god somewhere up there laughing at us. 
Rita Martinez died thirteen days later, without ever waking up. I went to the funeral because I had a feeling Arthur expected me to. I filed it in the category of trying to be a better person. 
Professor Halliday spoke. I didn’t pay attention to what she said; I let the words sail over me and echo against the walls of the church. 
I recognized a few Feds at the service, and numbly wondered if they were there to make sure no one gave anything away. The ever-helpful Agent Jones approached me afterward, out on the lawn under a copse of decorative trees. 
“Ms. Russell,” she said, nodding at me. She had a paper cup of punch in her hand. There were refreshments inside, which I’d passed on in favor of the flask in my pocket and the cocktail of narcotics I was still on. 
So I hand you my keyring and provided that you trust me to have actually met and verified all the keys on it, you can take it and add it to your keyring. Now, you meet someone else and you hand the whole ring to him. Bigger and bigger the ring grows, and provided that you trust the next guy in the chain, and he trusts the next guy in his chain and so on, you're pretty secure. 
Which brings me to keysigning parties. These are exactly what they sound like: a party where everyone gets together and signs everyone else's keys. Darryl and I, when we traded keys, that was kind of a mini-keysigning party, one with only two sad and geeky attendees. But with more people, you create the seed of the web of trust, and the web can expand from there. As everyone on your keyring goes out into the world and meets more people, they can add more and more names to the ring. You don't have to meet the new people, just trust that the signed key you get from the people in your web is valid. 
So that's why web of trust and parties go together like peanut butter and chocolate. 
A light autumn rain had started up, ending the Indian summer that Toronto—the Fourth Prefecture in the new metric scheme—had been enjoying. It made the roads slippery and the UNATS Robotics chauffeur skittish about putting the hammer down on the Don Valley Parkway. He idly fantasized about finding a set-top box and plugging it into his car somehow so that he could take over the driving without alerting his superiors. 
Instead, he redialed R Peed Robbert, but the robot wasn’t even ringing any longer. He zoomed in on the area around Sheppard and Don Mills with his phone and put out a general call for robots. More robots. 
“This is R Peed Froderick, Fairview Mall parking lot, third level.” 
Arturo sent the robot R Peed Robbert’s phone number and set it to work translating that into a locator-beacon code and then told it to find Robbert and report in. 
“It is my—” 
He watched R Peed Froderick home in on the locator for Robbert, which was close by, at the other end of the mall, near the Don Valley Parkway exit. He switched to a view from Froderick’s electric eyes, but quickly switched away, nauseated by the sickening leaps and spins of an R Peed moving at top speed, clanging off walls and ceilings. 
Someone rapped on the door. 
Jones ignored it for a long moment. Then she swept out of the room without saying another word. 
I slumped in my chair, trying to remain expressionless for the hidden cameras, but not sure I managed. It would be nice if I could learn to keep my goddamn mouth shut sometimes. I seemed to have some sort of opening here I couldn’t figure out how to slot myself into. I had the distinct suspicion an ounce of social grace on my part would have wrapped my involvement in this whole case up in a nice bow for the Feds and assigned myself to their list of people who were unsavory but necessary cogs in society and Not Worth Their Time. 
Instead, I had pissed off one of the lead investigators to the point where she wanted me to rot in jail forever. 
I rested my elbows on the table and pressed the heels of my hands against my eyes. Shit. It was so hard to think right now. My head felt stuffed with cotton, and the wound in my side, despite being properly dressed now, was an increasingly persistent burn. And there was a different sort of twisted discomfort mixed in with everything else, some tangled mess about Arthur and this case and Agent Jones’s assumptions about me. 
“I can spare? Felix old pal, I have enough dope here to last a hundred years. This stuff’s going to expire long before it runs out. But are you telling me that the net’s still up?” 
“It’s still up,” he said. “Kind of. That’s what we’ve been doing all week. Keeping it online. It might not last much longer, though.” 
“No,” she said. “I don’t suppose it would.” She set the axe down. “Have you got anything to trade? I don’t need much, but I’ve been trying to keep my spirits up by trading with the neighbors. It’s like playing civilization.” 
“You have neighbors?” 
“At least ten,” she said. “The people in the restaurant across the way make a pretty good soup, even... They cleaned me out of Sterno, though.” 
“You’ve got neighbors and you trade with them?” 
“Well, nominally. It’d be pretty lonely without them. I’ve taken care of whatever sniffles I could. Set a bone—broken wrist. Listen, do you want some Wonder Bread and peanut butter? I have a ton of it. Your friend looks like he could use a meal.” 
The wizard scowled. “Now wait a moment—” 
“You’re cured,” Ana said. “You should rest for a few days and eat well, but you will get better no matter what.” The wizard turned and shoved her toward the door, so hard she stumbled and hit the jam. She spat on the floor and walked out of the room. 
Valentine pulled herself out of the bed. The wizard took her wrist and without hesitating, she jammed her thumb into his eye-socket, grunting with the effort. He shouted and reeled away and she made her way out of the bedroom and down the corridor to the brave red sitting room. Ana had a couple of grip-sheeted, robot-tied parcels for her. “Clothes,” she said. “Food. Don’t come back. I’m not from here, but even I know how wrong this is. He—there’s no excuse for him. Go.” She handed Valentine some shoes—good sturdy work-boots, still warm from the printer. 
Six months after she took home the clothes that Ana had given her, Valentine was taken off of ditch-digging and put on corpse-duty. They were dying like flies, and the zombies fed on them, and unless the meat was disposed of, the zombies would multiply like rats. 
Lexy was an honest soul, however. The...  her, and she admitted in her heart that she, too, could eat, if she had a chance. 
Mrs. Enderby was not going to give her a chance just yet. She finished her meal and rose. 
“Now!” she said. “Just what is gone from here? We shall look.” 
So they looked, in the wardrobe, in the drawers, even in the orderly desk. Very little was gone. 
“And now,” said Mrs. Enderby, “you lent her—how much money, Miss Moran?” 
“I never lent her a penny in my life,” replied Lexy. 
Mrs. Enderby’s tone aroused a spirit of obstinate defiance in her. Those flashing black eyes were fixed upon her with an expression which did not please Lexy, and Lexy looked back with an expression which did not please Mrs. Enderby. 
“So you will not tell me what you know!” said Mrs. Enderby, with a chilly smile. 
It was on the tip of Lexy’s tongue to say, with considerable warmth, that she had told all she knew; but the memory of the telephone call checked her. 
“If I tell her about that,” she thought, “she’ll just say, ‘Ah, I thought so!’ And she’ll be surer than ever that Caroline has eloped with a fortune hunter, and she won’t make any effort to find her. No—I’m not going to tell her until she gets really frightened.” Aloud she said: “I’ll do anything in the world that I can do, Mrs. Enderby, to help you find Caroline.” 
My throat was dry. “I had to give it a shot.” 
“No pun intended,” said Dawna. 
I gritted my teeth. “I didn’t know you had a sense of humor.” 
“Of course I do,” she said. “I have a great enjoyment of language in particular. I admit I don’t enjoy the more ribald—bullying, shall we say—brand of humor. It gives me no pleasure to put other people down.” 
“You put down a lot of your people out there today,” I said. I half-saw her stiffen out of the corner of my eye. “Hey, you’re the one who likes puns.” 
“I admit, we fell for the first part of your ruse.” Her voice was still soft, but the words had turned dangerous and threatening, the sound of a cobra sliding over dead leaves. “You killed many good men and women tonight. I won’t forget it.” 
Well, that was a bit unfair. Where did she get off blaming me for defending myself? 
Her tone became derisive. “Ms. Russell. Really. You set a trap to murder me, and then call your violence self-defense? Oh, you bring self-justifying, irrational absurdity to a new level.” 
Leon swallowed. His resume emphasized his grades, not his final projects. He didn't speak of them at all. 
"So we thought, well, here's something different, it's possible he may have a house to go with our doorknob. But we knew what would happen if you were left to your own devices at a place like Ate: they'd bend you and shape you and make you over or ruin you. We do it ourselves, all too often. Bring in a promising young thing, subject him to the dreaded Viktor Culture, a culture he's totally unsuited to, and he either runs screaming or... fits in . It's worse when the latter happens. So we made sure that you had a good fairy perched on your right shoulder to counterbalance the devil on your left shoulder." She stopped, made a face, mock slapped herself upside the head. "Talking in euphemism again. Bad habit. You see what I mean." 
"And you let me get pushed aside..." 
She looked solemn. "We figured you wouldn't last long as a button-polisher. Figured you'd want out." 
"And that you'd be able to hire me." 
Felix dug ditches and salvaged cans and buried the dead. He planted and harvested. He fixed some cars and learned to make biodiesel. Finally he fetched up in a data-center for a little government—little governments came and went, but this one was smart enough to want to keep records and needed someone to keep everything running, and Van went with him. 
They spent a lot of time in chat rooms and sometimes they happened upon old friends from the strange time they’d spent running the Distributed Republic of Cyberspace, geeks who insisted on calling him PM, though no one in the real world ever called him that anymore. 
It wasn’t a good life, most of the time. Felix’s wounds never healed, and neither did most other people’s. There were lingering sicknesses and sudden ones. Tragedy on tragedy. 
But Felix liked his data-center. There in the humming of the racks, he never felt like it was the first days of a better nation, but he never felt like it was the last days of one, either. 
He reloaded the Google homepage. Queen Kong had had it online for a couple years now. The Os in Google changed all the time, whenever she got the urge. Today they were little cartoon globes, one smiling the other frowning. 
But this is a straightforward objective. Lt. Holcomb has been using a complex series of high res satellite recon and inspired guesswork for the last two years to track a renegade Dispensationalist cleric named Ramah ibn Ona Hadad nee Mikhail Brezhnaya, sometime freakishly magnetic religious icon, but mostly an assclown terrorist organizer responsible for assorted embassy bombings, the biochem catastrophe in Calcutta and a dozen other moderately interesting attacks against Western tourists in his part of the world. What makes him interesting to METOC policy wonks is his pre-conversion rank in the Russoturk Crescent Army as head of intelligence operations in New Mes. It is a brain begging to be picked, doped, sliced into cross sections, 
scanned into a secure data environment, and interrogated in AI enhanced simulacrum form. 
Holcomb has tracked Brezhnaya's movements and determined that whatever else he might do to evade capture, the cleric cannot resist this place, this canyon and a tightly scheduled semi-annual pilgrimage with a hand picked coterie of fanatical supporters. It is a defining pattern in a life that is otherwise devoid of useful signals. 
Then I went to St Petersburg with my family in the summer of 2005, and my grandmother walked us through the streets of her girlhood, and for the first time, she opened up about the war to me. She pointed out the corners where she’d seen frozen, starved corpses, their asses sliced away by black-market butchers; the windows from which she’d heaved the bodies of her starved neighbors when she grew too weak to carry them. 
The stories came one after another, washing over the sun-bleached summertime streets of Petersburg, conjuring up a darker place, frozen over, years into a siege that killed millions. Harrison E. Salisbury’s “900 Days” is probably the best account of those years, and the more I read of it, the more this story fleshed itself out in my head. I wrote almost all of it on airplanes between London, Singapore and San Francisco, in great, 5000- and 6000-word gouts. 
My grandmother’s stories found an easy marriage with the contemporary narrative of developing nations being strong-armed into taking on rich-country copyright and patent laws, even where this means letting their citizens die by the millions for lack of AIDS drugs (Mandela’s son died of AIDS—imagine if one of the Bush twins died of a disease that would be treatable except for...  their education system, or punishing local artists to preserve imported, expensive culture. 
"I did." 
"You were no doubt very brave." 
"No. The brave are the ones who come back in bags. I'm just feisty and clever and stubborn. Like a camel. 
The best way to survive in a hostile environment is always to emulate the natives. " 
"I'd rather imagine you as brave and lucky than camelish. A Lawrence of Arabia romance. " She tilts her head toward him. "Does it bother you to talk about the desert?" 
"Not in generalities." Which is true enough. "Generalities are better, in fact, if you want to keep your illusions of romance." 
"But it was exciting, wasn't it?" 
He laughs without humor. "In the military, excitement is a dirty word. We avoid all things exciting if possible." 
"I don't believe that. I think your life must have been very exciting, but you don't want to tell me." 
"Do you really want to know?" 
"I do. I want to know all your secrets. Even the terrible ones." 
"Are you always this blunt?" 
She narrows her eyes at him. "You're avoiding the issue. Tell me what it was like." 
> herro! 
I didn't recognize the handle -- spexgril -- but I had an idea who might be behind it. 
> hi! 
I typed, cautiously. 
> it's me, from tonight. 
Then she paste-bombed a block of crypto. I'd already entered her public key into my keychain, so I told the IM client to try decrypting the code with the key. 
> it's me, from tonight. 
It was her! 
> Fancy meeting you here. 
I typed, then encrypted it to my public key and mailed it off. 
> It was great meeting you. 
I typed. 
> You too. I don't meet too many smart guys who are also cute and also socially aware. Good god, man, you don't give a girl much of a chance. 
My heart hammered in my chest. 
> Hello? Tap tap? This thing on? I wasn't born here folks, but I'm sure dying here. Don't forget to tip your waitresses, they work hard. I'm here all week. 
I laughed aloud. 
> I'm here, I'm here. Laughing too hard to type is all. 
> Well at least my IM comedy-fu is still mighty. 
> It was really great to meet you too. 
> Yeah, it usually is. Where are you taking me? 
Then one of the Caribbean nurses came over and placed her hand on Lou's shoulder. She had an experienced face, full of self-confidence. Something about her inspired trust. 
"I wouldn't let this upset you too much," she said, a lovely lilt in her voice. "What just happened may or may not mean anything. When patients first come out of a coma, they can sometimes talk just fine, and yet not make any sense. They ramble on about things they dreamed of like they were real." Then she smiled. "But it's a good first step. She could wake up perfectly fine tomorrow. Just don't pay any attention to what she says for a while. She's dreaming now." 
Lou grunted as though he believed her. I nodded in sym­pathy, though no one seemed to notice. 
I also thought that although what Sarah had said was bi­zarre, it sounded like something more than a dream. Or had she gone back to her child-state where imaginary worlds were real for her? 
Then in the dim glare of her bed light, Lou took a wrinkled blue booklet out of his inner pocket and stared at it. I had to stare at it a moment before I realized it was a passport. 
A sprinkler came on in my face. Of course. LA didn’t exactly have dew, and even though it had rained the night before, the sun would’ve burned all the residual moisture off an open lawn like this one. 
A lawn. In a graveyard. 
I tumbled away from the spray, shivering, and regained my footing on one of the asphalt paths leading through the headstones. 
Why am I here? 
I thought about going back to the car, but when I tried to turn back to the gate, my feet felt mired in cement, and something in me clenched. My throat closed. I crouched for a moment, hands on my knees, taking small sips of air through my mouth. 
Jesus Christ. 
I stood back up and took a cautious step into the graveyard, and the feeling lightened. 
I stopped again. 
What the fuck. Something was messing with me. I didn’t like being messed with, and I sure as hell wasn’t going to listen to it. 
I sat down on the path. The asphalt was damp. 
The only person who’d been able to get my mind to... do things...this way was Dawna Polk. I shivered, the feel of her invading tendrils a visceral echo in my brain, even years later. But she’d been seamless, hadn’t she? Most of the time I hadn’t even been able to tell when I was doing what she wanted. To be perfectly honest with myself, I still didn’t fully know what she’d made me do and what decisions I’d made myself. I was pretty sure I’d never know. 
“Sonya,” he tried again instead, “I just want to help you, okay?” 
She concentrated on her monitor. “I told you to leave me alone.” 
“You called me,” he pleaded. 
“In a moment of weakness. I believe I was very clear I do not want any help from you.” 
“Arthur?” I said. 
He made a “back off” motion at me with one hand. “You need help. You told me I wouldn’t understand, well, I brought someone who will. Just talk to us. Please.” 
“What is your area of specialization?” said Halliday. 
She hadn’t looked up, and it took me a second to realize she was talking to me. I wasn’t great at reading people’s tones, but it had never been more obvious someone was trying to set me up to fail. 
Oh, fuck you. 
I plopped down in one of the chairs across from Halliday’s desk, sprawling in an inelegant slouch. “You know. I do a little of everything.” 
“I do not mean to be rude,” said Halliday, “but Arthur does not grasp the level of depth and complexity in my field—” 
“Liar,” I said. “You do mean to be rude. Go on, say what you’re thinking.” 
“I already said I wouldn’t.” He might not be prepared for rebuilding computer clusters on the run, but Checker had some levels of paranoia I heartily approved of. I wondered what his history was. “So, what’s the verdict? You want me to dead drop the equipment?” 
“Oh, I’m sending you after way too much for that,” he said. “We might as well do this in person. This is where I take the leap, I guess.” His voice had gone high and uncertain. “How can you be sure you’re...cured?” 
I looked around the edges of the closed blinds. The traffic of Los Angeles buzzed by on the streets below, the cars splashing miserably through rain sheeting down from a soggy sky. My head still hurt, so I liked to think I was resisting something, but that was very far from a sure thing. “I’m not,” I admitted. 
I heard Checker take a few shallow breaths. Then he said, “I can’t help wondering. How do we know this isn’t part of some elaborate Xanatos Gambit?” 
I left off staring at the traffic. “Some elaborate what?” 
“The food is very bad, too,” Thai Guy said. “Last year I was arrested at a protest. Luckily I was in the jail for only one night. I met many interesting people.” 
“So I’m going to go. Nice to meet you . . . Novak,” I finished, 
just barely avoiding saying Thai Guy. When I glanced back to turn a corner, I saw Monica was still watching me, still looking worried. She could probably tell I needed to chill out, but it wasn’t because my brother was in jail. I was desperate to know what Wheeze had written on that crumpled piece of paper. 
I t was freaky riding home. Police cars seemed to be every- where. Wheeze and I had made being aware of our surround- ings into an elaborate role-playing game. It had been exciting and fun, but this was just scary. I was churning with curiosity about the message Wheeze had scribbled on the back of the pizza flier, 
but I didn’t want to look at it in public. It felt like I was carrying a bomb in my pocket instead of a crumpled piece of paper. 
I got home without being pulled over by police or being tailed by suspicious unmarked cars. Nobody was sitting in a car parked along the curb, watching our house. When I got into our apart- ment, I scanned the backyard carefully and didn’t see any men in utility company outfits carrying clipboards and pretending they had some reason to be hanging out in my alley on a cold Sunday afternoon. The little tell-tale things I had set up before leaving to tell me if anyone had been in our apartment were undisturbed. 
What's . . .? 
Feeling like I was deep in a medical fourth dimension, I took out one of the freezing tubes. It was notched and marked with a code labeled along the side: "BL -1 la," "BL -1 lb," "BL-1 lc," and so it went, all the way to "g." But noth­ing was there. 
I began checking the other tubes. They all were empty too. So why was he freezing empty containers? 
Go with the simple answer. He's getting them ready for new embryos. 
I slid the rod back into the cryo-tank, then walked over and hoisted myself onto the lab bench next to the Dancing Shiva, creator and destroyer. And when I did, I again felt a stab of pain in my groin. The bastard. I was shaking, in the early stages of shock. More than anything, I just wanted to find him and kill him. . . . 
I thought I heard a scraping noise somewhere outside, in the hall, and I froze. Was he about to come in and check on his "experiments"? Then I realized it was just the building, his house of horrors, creaking from the wind. 
I took one final look at the incubators, and all the pain came back. The whole thing was too much for my body to take in. I sat there trying to muster my strength. 
As she followed Mrs. Royce up the stairs, she saw Captain Grey still sitting before the fire, smoking; and it was a comforting sight. 
Lexy slept late the next morning. It was nearly nine o’clock when she opened her eyes. She lay for a few minutes, looking about her. The gray light of another rainy day filled the neat, unfamiliar little room, and outside the window she could see the branches of a little pear tree rocking in the wind. 
“I’m here in Wyngate,” she said to herself. “I was bent on coming here to find Caroline; and now, here I am, and how am I going to begin?” 
She got up, and washed in cold water, in a queer, old-fashioned china basin painted with flowers. She brushed her shining hair, and dressed, feeling more hopeful every minute. 
“One step at a time!” she thought. “The first step was to come here; and the next step—well, I’ll think of it after breakfast. Perhaps Captain Grey will have thought of something.” 
But Captain Grey had gone out. 
“Jest a few minutes ago,” Mrs. Royce informed her. “He was down real early—around seven, and he waited and waited for you. At half past eight he et, and off he went.” 
With a sigh of relief, she sat down on the edge of the platform. She wouldn’t in the least mind sitting here until morning, in a place where there were lights and a clock, and she could hear a dog barking. She took off her shoe and rubbed her bruised foot, and sighed again with great content. In four hours or so somebody would come, and then she would find out where she was, and how to get back to Mrs. Royce, and Mrs. Royce’s...  
She started up, and hastily put on her shoe again, for in the distance she heard the sound of a motor. She told herself that it would be the height of folly to stop an unknown car in this solitary place, for there were evil men abroad in the world; but there were a great many more honest ones, and if she could only get back to Mrs. Royce’s now! 
She crossed the road and stood behind a big tree. The purr of the motor was growing louder and louder, filling the whole earth. Her heart beat fast, she kept her eyes upon the road, excited, but not sure what she meant to do. 
At least she was all right. 
Wait, I remembered. I had to wait. What was I waiting for? 
The Lancer came back in. 
No, no, no, I’m not ready. I had to wait— I tugged at my bonds weakly, involuntarily. The paralytic had worn off now, but it hardly mattered. 
“Is there anything our resident double-crossing snake would like to share for posterity?” The Lancer was standing above me, jeering, leaning on his cane with both hands. “Any words of wisdom on always making the quick buck?” 
A noise filtered through my consciousness, a very specific sort of shuffle-thump noise. A very specific sort of noise. 
Holy shit. 
“Six, twenty-eight, four ninety-six,” I said. It came out in a weird, sing-song mumble. I felt drunk. 
“What did you say?” demanded the Lancer. 
There was another shuffle-thump, and a quickly quieted clatter. “Thirty,” I murmured. “A hundred and forty. Twenty-four eighty...” 
“Six thousand two hundred,” said Professor Martinez, across from me. “And forty thousand six hundred forty.” 
“And then?” 
“Then I shall be guided by his advice,” Mrs. Enderby replied blandly. 
Lexy could have smiled at this. She knew how likely Mrs. Enderby was to be guided by her husband; but she kept the smile and the thought to herself. 
“I don’t want to interfere with your plans—” she began. 
“I have no plans.” 
“I mean, if you’re going to take steps to find her—” 
“My child,” said Mrs. Enderby, “it is clear that you wish to amuse yourself with a grand mystery. I tell you there is no mystery, but you do not believe me. I ask you to say nothing of this matter, but you refuse. So I say to you now—go your own way, proceed with your mystery. I do not think you can hurt me very much.” 
Lexy flushed. 
“I don’t want to hurt any one,” she declared stiffly. “I just want to help your daughter.” 
“Proceed, then!” said Mrs. Enderby. 
Lexy rose. 
“Then I’ll say good-by, Mrs. Enderby,” she said. “My trunk’s packed. I’ll send for it this afternoon.” 
“And where are you going in such a hurry?” 
“I’m going to Wyngate,” said Lexy. 
" Adorable Princess," said Aladdin to her, accosting her, and saluting her respectfully, "if I have the misfortune to have displeased you by my boldness in aspiring to the possession of so lovely a creature, I must tell you that you ought to blame your bright eyes and charms, not me. " 
"Prince," answered the Princess, "it is enough for me to have seen you, to tell you that I obey without reluctance." 
When Rebecca alighted from the train at Maplewood and hurried to the post-office where the stage was standing, what was her joy to see uncle Jerry Cobb holding the horses' heads. 
"The reg'lar driver 's sick," he explained, "and when they sent for me, thinks I to myself, my drivin' days is over, but Rebecky won't let the grass grow under her feet when she gits her aunt Jane's letter, and like as not I'll ketch her to-day; or, if she gits delayed, to-morrow for certain. So here I be jest as I was more 'n six year ago. Will you be a real lady passenger, or will ye sit up in front with me?" 
W hen we reached the parking lot, several more Army thugs were waiting, grown-ups now, khaki shirts and dense mustaches, the regulation G-2 sunglasses even though it was still dark, with 9mm automatics in holsters at their belt. I took one look at them and I think I blacked out. Steve and I were about to "disappear," and possibly Sarah too. Probably in another hour or two. My tattered mind finally just slipped away. 
Soon afterward, I sensed myself being transported in a large vehicle, and after that I was being carried, up, up, as though I were floating into the coming dawn. When I re­gained consciousness, I realized I was standing in a rain­storm near a small stone building. A dozen Army men were huddled inside, shielding their cigarettes from the blowing rain while they guarded a row of olive-green bassinets. Around me, censers were spewing copal smoke into the soggy air. 
I became aware of the cooling sensation of the fresh rain across my face, and wondered if it might clear some of the toad venom (surely that was what it was) from my brain. Maybe it was working. Instead of seeing vivid colors every­where, I was abruptly experiencing a hyper acute clarity of every sensation. The stones beneath my bare feet were be­coming so articulated, I felt as though I could number every granule, every crystal, every atom. The paintings and carvings on the lintel above the door to the stone room—I rec­ognized it as where I'd spent the first night—sparkled, leapt out at me. 
"Oh, Leon," she said. "I'm sorry. Habit here -- there's some things that can't be readily said in utopia. Eventually, you just get in the habit of speaking out of the back of your head. It's, you know, rude to ruin people's gardens by pointing out the snakes. So, yes, OK, I'll say something right out. I like you, Leon. The average employee at a place like Ate is a bottomless well of desires, trying to figure out what others might desire. We've been hearing from them for decades now, the resourceful ones, the important ones, the ones who could get past the filters and the filters behind the filters. We know what they're like. 
"Your work was different. As soon as you were hired by Ate, we generated a dossier on you. Saw your grad work." 
Leon swallowed. His resume emphasized his grades, not his final projects. He didn't speak of them at all. 
"So we thought, well, here's something different, it's possible he may have a house to go with our doorknob. But we knew what would happen if you were left to your own devices at a place like Ate: they'd bend you and shape you and make you over or ruin you. We do it ourselves, all too often. Bring in a promising young thing, subject him to the dreaded Viktor Culture, a culture he's totally unsuited to, and he either runs screaming or... fits in . It's worse when the latter happens. So we made sure that you had a good fairy perched on your right shoulder to counterbalance the devil on your left shoulder." She stopped, made a face, mock slapped herself upside the head. "Talking in euphemism again. Bad habit. You see what I mean." 
“My wife and I were very much interested,” he went on, with as little interest as a human being may well display. “We don’t have many newcomers here. It’s a very quiet place.” 
His apathetic manner exasperated Lexy. 
“But I don’t care how quiet it is,” she observed. 
“My wife and I like a quiet life,” he said. “My wife asked me to explain, Miss Moran, that she is something of a recluse. Her health prevents her from calling upon you; but she wished me to say that she would be very happy to see you at the Tower, whenever it may be convenient for you to call, any afternoon after four o’clock.” 
“Thank you,” replied Lexy. “Please thank Mrs. Quelton. I shall be very pleased to come.” 
And now why didn’t he go away? This visit was apparently a painful duty for him. He had delivered his message, and yet he lingered. 
“A very quiet place,” he repeated; “but perhaps you are not sociably inclined?” 
“Oh, I’m sociable enough—at times,” said Lexy. 
“But at the present time you prefer solitude? For the purposes of your work? As a change from the stimulating atmosphere of the city?” 
“That was awesome!” I thumped her on the back. 
“Not so awesome.” 
“The hat didn’t look that bad.” But I could see something else was brewing. “Did it get you in hot water at work?” 
“Not so far as I know. It’s your parents. They’re worried that you’re going to get in trouble like Wilson. They want you to move back home.” 
“This is my home. You told them no, right?” 
“I haven’t told them anything yet. But I need to. They left three voicemails today.” 
“But ... I can’t go back there.” It landed on me, suddenly, a huge black load of horribleness. It wasn’t just the treatment I’d get from my adoptive parents and so-called siblings, which was bad enough. I would be cut off from everything I needed to do. I would never be able to use the equipment in my backpack. The one chance I had to save Wilson would be gone. “I can’t,” I said again. “Tell them no.” 
“I didn’t return their calls because you were out late again and I had no idea where you were or what you doing, which would have proven their point. And honestly, what have I been think- ing? Out alone at this hour of the night — ” 
“I was born and raised out to Adams Corners,” said Mrs. Royce. “Guess there’s no one living out there that I don’t know.” 
“Then perhaps you know Miss Craigie?” 
“Miss Margaret Craigie? I should say I did! If you’re a friend of hers—” 
“Only an acquaintance,” said Lexy cautiously. 
“Set down!” suggested Mrs. Royce, very cordial now. “I’ll light a nice wood fire. A writer, are you? Well, well! And the gentleman—I wonder, now, what brings him here!” 
“He told me he’d come to see his sister,” said Lexy. “Mrs. Quelton, I think he said.” 
“Quelton!” cried the landlady. “You didn’t say Quelton? Not the doctor’s wife?” 
“Yes,” said the captain’s voice from the doorway. “Nothing happened to her, has there? Nothing gone wrong?” 
Mrs. Royce stared at him with the most profound interest, and he stared back at her, somewhat uneasily. 
“No,” said she, at last. “No—only—well, I’m sure!” 
There was a silence. 
“Could we possibly have a little supper?” asked Lexy politely. 
“Yes, indeed you can!” said Mrs. Royce. “Right away!” But still she lingered. “Mrs. Quelton’s brother!” she said. “Well, I never!” 
“What kind of help?” 
She couldn’t say it. She had the new kind of zombiism and the soldier had explained it clearly—the cure for zombiism now was a bullet to the head. 
Then she knew what she must say. The chocolate helped. Her family would love chocolate. “I’m going away soon and my mother and brother won’t be able to take care of themselves. I need help to keep them safe once I go.” 
“Where are you going?” 
The drink made it hard to think, but that was balanced out by that precious and magical feeling of fullness in her belly. Her mind flew over all the possible answers. 
“I have found someone who’ll take me out of the city and to a safe place.” 
“Are there safe places?” Ana said. 
“Oh, Ana, you cynic,” the wizard said. “There are many, many safe places. The world is full of them. They are the exception, not the rule. Isn’t that why you’ve come here?” 
“We’re not talking about why I came here,” Ana said. She nodded back at Valentine and made a little scooting hand-gesture at her. Valentine couldn’t decide if she liked Ana, though Ana was very pretty. 
"And she's not about to let you throw all that away in a post-adolescent fit," Ray finishes for her. 
"I'm just trying to help you understand." 
He's being too hard on her, he realizes. Of course he doesn't understand. He doesn't have the experience to make it part of his reality. 
"So Amah has essentially taken care of family affairs since your mother became ill." 
"Since father died, actually. Just before I was born." 
Ray gives her a shrug. "I guess I can see why she's so invested in your success. She's been working at it for a long time. But here's what I don't get: the current Whiston fortune, as immense and gaudy as it is, is based on starship manufacture and trade— all of which is Terran based. What are you doing out on the fringes of human space, for God's sake? How the heck did your branch of the family end up on New Holyoke?" 
Emma grins widely at him, as though he's said something unintentionally funny. "You know, for a suspected gold digger, you haven't done very thorough research." 
And suddenly, miraculously, every journalist, policy-wonk, staffer, advisor, clerk and cop in DC wanted to have a chat with the Association for a Human-Readable World. 
She hired three more people that week, and borrowed four more from fellow-traveler organizations. Paying their salaries for the next four weeks would bottom out the group's finances, but she knew that this was now or never, and the Board backed her, after some nail-biting debate. 
Damian showed up on the fourth day of the Downtime, and she found him standing, bewildered, in the hustle of her office as her staffers penned notes on steno pads to their contacts on the Hill and handed them to waiting bicycle couriers in space-program warmgear that swathed them from fingertips to eyeballs. She plucked him out of the bustle and brought him back to her office. 
"I've got a hell of a nerve," he said, sitting in her guest-chair. 
"Really?" she said. "I hadn't noticed." 
"Well, I haven't been showing it off. But I'm about to. I need advice. My office is falling apart. You've been living with no communications and no travel for a year now, you know how to make it work. We're completely lost. I've come to throw myself on your mercy." He looked up at her with his big brown eyes, and then they crumpled shut as he made his Fretting face. 
There was nothing more I could do. 
I’d ditched my cell phone in the middle of nowhere along with the microchip, so I angled back toward LA and sped through the desert until I found a grungy strip mall with an electronics store. I bought a prepaid cell phone and dialed Arthur. 
No answer. 
Shit. 
I dialed Checker. 
“Hello?” said Pilar’s voice. 
I was too confused to answer for a second. “This is Checker’s phone,” I said stupidly. 
“Cas!” Pilar effused. “How did it go? Did you get away? Where are you? Did you find the professor?” 
“No,” I said. “Where’s Checker?” 
“I thought you were with the NSA,” I said. “What happened?” 
“Well, I was, but there wasn’t all that much for me to do once Arthur turned himself in.” 
“Turned himself in? Is Arthur under arrest?” 
“What? No! Uh, I don’t think so. Why would he be?” 
I supposed it was possible for Arthur to spin things as if he hadn’t broken any laws. 
Especially once he’d split from me. I was mad at him all over again. 
Pilar kept chattering. “But anyway, Checker called me for help, I think he was having some sort of PTSD trouble what with the building falling on Arthur, so—” 
I trusted one person in the entire world. 
He was currently punching me in the face. 
Overlapping numbers scuttled across Rio’s fist as it rocketed toward me, their values scrambling madly, the calculations doing themselves before my eyes. He wasn’t pulling his punch at all, the bastard. I saw exactly how it would hit and that the force would fracture my jaw. 
Well. If I allowed it to. 
Angles and forces. Vector sums. Easy. I pressed myself back against the chair I was tied to, bracing my wrists against the ropes, and tilted my head a hair less than the distance I needed to turn the punch into a love tap. Instead of letting Rio break my jaw, I let him split my lip open. 
The impact snapped my head back, and blood poured into my mouth, choking me. I coughed and spat on the cement floor. Goddammit. 
“Sixteen men,” said a contemptuous voice in accented English from a few paces in front of me, “against one ugly little girl. How? Who are you?” 
“Nineteen,” I corrected, the word hitching as I choked on my own blood. I was already regretting going for the split lip. “Check your perimeter again. I killed nineteen of your men.” And it would have been a lot more if Rio hadn’t appeared out of nowhere and clotheslined me while I was distracted by the Colombians. Fucking son of a bitch. He was the one who’d gotten me this job; why hadn’t he told me he was undercover with the drug cartel? 
And there were actually tears in her eyes as she went back into the house where Caroline was. 
I pondered it. Probably not, actually. If they were smart, they’d watch through the slot in the door until I was safely on the other side of the room and come in with weapons trained on us. 
Ordinarily that might still change enough variables for me to find an opening and get us out. In my current condition, and with Halliday to protect... 
“What about food?” I asked. “They have to bring food.” 
She pointed at the slot in the door. Definitely enough room for a tray. 
“We need a reason for them to come in,” I said, thinking out loud. “Something that will surprise them. Throw them off. Panic them.” 
“And then what?” Halliday’s dark skin had a slightly greenish cast in the fluorescent light. “We’ll never get past them. We’ll die.” 
“Aren’t you a party pooper,” I said. “Professor, I can protect you. I promise.” 
“You can barely stand up on your own.” The words could have been mean, but instead her voice was empty and factual. 
Her skepticism made me even more determined. “I told you, it’s not that bad. I’ll deal with it. Besides, what choice do we have? You’d rather stay here?” 
People spend their entire lives knowing the world and the people about them by sight and gesture, by appearance and visual clue. The face is who you are, what you are, as individual and unique in most ways as the DNA inside your cells. But face or genetic characteristics, they're both forms of establishing identity. 
Shepherd had done nothing more than acquire a technologically nightmarish mask, the same as the Old West cattle rustlers with bandanas drawn up over their faces. 
But this mask was no ten penny, frontier merchantile purchase. 
Munitions are good business. Lots of ready cash. You need cred like that to afford sophisticated, failsafe pico or nanomech assemblers like the ones Shepherd had used, unless you enjoy the risk of sudden, catastrophic dissolution of your extremities when the assembler control hits a buggy line of design implementation code. 
That's why nobody messes with mech-tech on the large scale these days. Too dangerous, too many ethical issues, but mostly just too expensive. When the Terran military complexes gave up on mass production and super-soldiers notions, nanomech augmentation became the exclusive playground of the wealthy, the bored, 
Suddenly an inspiration came. 
“It is ‘fix’!” she cried. “And it’s not ‘tocsin,’ but ‘toxins’! Hurrah!” 
This practically completed the puzzle, and she began to fill in the empty squares with the peculiar satisfaction of the crossword enthusiast. It was perfect, now, and she liked things to be perfect. 
As she leaned back, with a contented sigh, the clock struck twelve. 
“Golly! I didn’t realize it was so late!” she reflected. “Queer time for any one to ring up!” 
She frowned again. Her special problem solved, she began to take more interest in other affairs; and the more she thought of the telephone incident, the more it amazed her. Caroline Enderby wasn’t like other girls. The mere fact of a man’s telephoning to her at all was strange and indeed unprecedented. 
“And he was badly upset, too,” thought Lexy. “He asked if she left a message for him. Think of Caroline Enderby leaving a message for a man!” 
She began to feel impatient for Caroline’s return. 
“I’ll tell her when we’re alone,” she thought; “and she’ll have to explain—a little, anyhow.” 
But what about proof? To show the world. Morning sounds were building up outside, so I was less worried whether the two soldiers in the hallway were still asleep or not. Truthfully, I was so wired I no longer cared. I clicked on a printer and began zipping off the files of each woman he'd violated, all six. 
Disgust flowed through me like a torrent. Heart of Dark­ness. "The horror, the horror." Alex Goddard had used Sarah in the most unspeakable way possible, then tried to have her murdered. Probably he'd just turned her over to Colonel Ra­mos. 
The same thing must have happened to those other women. All "disappeared" somewhere in Guatemala. But who would know? 
One thing I knew. I was next. . . . 
The printer was old and loud, but thankfully it was fast. Four minutes later I had what I'd need to nail the criminal. When I got out of here, somebody would have to believe me. 
While I was stacking the printouts, I resolved to call the embassy right then, the hour be damned. I was sweating like a gazelle when the lion is closing in. Alex Goddard had just performed primal, surgical rape on me, and now the Army was right outside. I had to get the embassy. 
After that, it's a strict regimen of mind-numbing and laborious effort. Unseal right hand cup, reach up, plant and set the grips. Unseal left hand cup, reach, plant, grips. Unseal right knee cup, extend, plant, grips. And so on, all the time trying not to think about the fact that he's trusting his entire weight to the physical (and theoretical) properties of four scuffed and unimpressive electromagnets roughly...  them one on top of the other. 
Not to mention assiduously avoiding the thought that that if the magnets failed, he'd plummet four hundred dizzying meters straight onto the nanomesh filters that stood between him and the cooling tanks. Assuming he survived the fall, the mesh would be almost certainly be irretrievably damaged, thus flooding the vent with a fog of steam and radioactive pollutants that would boil his eyeballs in their sockets, sear the hair right off his head, probably curl the skin from his bones like a bunch of old parchment and, if he was lucky, kill him after a few uncomfortable minutes. 
"Come on, Mac, screw that. You and me, end-to-end." That was CogRad jargon from back in the old days. The Internet was end-to-end, which meant that any two points could communicate without an intermediary interfering in the bytestream. In CogRad, you didn't talk person-to-person or man-to-man, you talked end-to-end, just like the connectivity they brought to the Rez. "I own fifteen percent of this company, same as you -- you owe me a decent explanation." 
MacDiarmid stood fast. 
"Get in the fucking chair, Mac," Lee-Daniel said, hating the whine in his voice. "If you want me to go along with this, get in the fucking chair. 
"Mac, I'm sorry. Sorry if I flew off the handle. I'm a grownup, you're a grownup and we both care about CogRad. Get in the chair and tell me about this. Please." 
MacDiarmid sat. 
"Listen up, LD. You've done excellent work here. Be proud. You started something good, something that will grow and grow and that you can retire on. But you can't keep this up forever. If I thought for a second that you'd take orders from someone else, I'd offer to keep you on as COO or VP of Research and Development. There's no way, though -- no one would ever be able to tell you what to do in this company. 
"Poor little onlucky misfortunate thing!" sighed uncle Jerry, as his eyes followed her down the hill. "I wish she could pay some attention to the ground under her feet; but I vow, if she was ourn I'd let her slop paint all over the house before I could scold her. Here's her poetry she's left behind. Read it out ag'in, mother. Land!" he continued, chuckling, as he lighted his cob pipe; "I can just see the last flap o' that boy-editor's shirt tail as he legs it for the woods, while Rebecky settles down in his revolvin' cheer! I'm puzzled as to what kind of a job editin' is, exactly; but she'll find out, Rebecky will. An' she'll just edit for all she's worth! 
Land, mother! that takes right holt, kind o' like the gospel. How do you suppose she thought that out?" 
"She couldn't have thought it out at her age," said Mrs. Cobb; "she must have just guessed it was that way. We know some things without bein' told, Jeremiah." 
Rebecca took her scolding (which she richly deserved) like a soldier. There was considerable of it, and Miss Miranda remarked, among other things, that so absent-minded a child was sure to grow up into a driveling idiot. She was bidden to stay away from Alice Robinson's birthday party, and doomed to wear her dress, stained and streaked as it was, until it was worn out. Aunt Jane six months later mitigated this martyrdom by making her a ruffled dimity pinafore, artfully shaped to conceal all the spots. She was blessedly ready with these mediations between the poor little sinner and the full consequences of her sin. 
The question had been offhand, irritated, but then realization hit me like a pile driver. 
They needed you, but they promised not to hurt you, I swear. And: Nothing here. Searched the place top to bottom. How did an extremely observant private investigator miss Dawna’s paramilitary army? 
“Son of a bitch,” I whispered. Dawna had gotten to Tresting back in the town, and he had led us both into her hands in the first place, voluntarily. Because... Some things ain’t gray in this world, Russell—some things ain’t. 
“You son of a bitch,” I growled. “You were trying to help her get Rio.” 
“Russell,” he begged. “I had to help—the man is—” 
I did hit him then, so hard his head whipped around and his body smashed against the bars on the far side of the cell. Then I turned and gripped the iron bars in front of me as hard as I could so I wouldn’t turn back and kill him. 
They left us in the cell for days. I couldn’t help but wonder what Dawna still wanted with us; after all, we’d only been her bait to entrap Rio. Maybe she’d kill us when she got around to it, or maybe she did want to recruit us for real, but was prioritizing Rio. 
“You don’t have a car.” 
“I could borrow one.” 
“I’ll ride my bike.” I didn’t really want to go to a rally. Wilson went to them all the time and acted like he was doing something important, even though they never actually fixed anything. But Nikko was trying to be nice. And I liked being with Nikko. 
Dave arrived finally, giving some long explanation about car problems and traffic until Marcella cut him off. 
“You’re late,” she said and handed him a flowchart. 
He gave her a winning smile. It didn’t work. Marcella doesn’t get smiles. She was about to launch into her explanation for the third time when I broke in. “I vote for the second option. The one in green.” 
“Me too,” Nikko...  art,” I said. “You guys can do European and contemporary.” 
“Which theme, though?” Marcella asked. “We have to choose a theme. I put the choices on the back.” 
“Communities” I said, just as Nikko said “animals.” 
In the next second I said “animals” and Nikko said “communi- ties” and then pretended to stifle a sneeze to hold his laughter in. 
"An emergent phenomenon." 
"Can he hear us?" 
She nodded. 
"Viktor," he said, thinking of the thing in the vat. "Clarity made the people who took it very angry. They couldn't look at advertisements without wanting to smash something. Going into a shop made them nearly catatonic. Voting made them want to storm a government office with flaming torches. Every test subject went to prison within eight weeks." 
Ria smiled. She took his hands in hers -- warm, dry -- and squeezed them. 
His phone rang. He took one hand out and answered it. 
"Hello?" 
"How much do you want for it?" Viktor's voice was ebullient. Mad, even. 
"It's not for sale." 
"I'll buy Ate, put you in charge." 
"Don't want it." 
"I'll kill your parents." The ebullient tone didn't change at all. 
"You'll kill everyone if Clarity is widely used." 
"You don't believe that. Clarity lets you choose the course that will make you happiest. Mass suicide won't make humanity happiest." 
"You don't know that." 
"Wanna bet?" 
"Why don't you kill yourself?" 
"Of course they noticed! They loved it! For once, I wasn't kicking the table-leg or arguing with my sisters or stuffing sprouts in my pocket. I cleaned my plate, then sat and waited until everyone else was done, then I did the dishes." 
"How'd you like it?" 
"I loved it! I hated family dinners! I just got the highlight reel again -- dessert! I remember that fucking bowl of pudding like I was eating it right now. My mother couldn't cook for shit, but she sure opened a mean package of Jello Pudding." 
Sean found his mood matching Grampa's, aggressive and edgy. "How did you and Grandma end up getting married? I can't imagine that she was hot for a zombie like you." 
"Oh, but she was , Sean, she was !" Grampa waggled his eyebrows lasciviously. "Your Grandma didn't like people much. She knew she had to get married, her folks expected no less, but she mostly wanted to be off on her own, doing her own thing. I'd come home, switch off, clean the place, do any chores she had for me, then go to bed. She loved to have sex with me switched off -- it got so that if I accidentally switched on while we were doing it, I'd pretend I was still off, until she was done. It was the perfect arrangement." 
I didn't say anything. I'd been giddy and angry. Now I was scared witless. 
"I'm sorry," I managed, hating myself again for saying it. 
Booger got in the front seat and Zit put the car in gear, cruising up 24th Street and over Potrero Hill. They had my address from my ID. 
Mom answered the door after they rang the bell, leaving the chain on. She peeked around it, saw me and said, "Marcus? Who are these men?" 
"Police," Booger said. He showed her his badge, letting her get a good look at it -- not whipping it away the way he had with me. "Can we come in?" 
Mom closed the door and took the chain off and let them in. They brought me in and Mom gave the three of us one of her looks. 
"What's this about?" 
Booger pointed at me. "We wanted to ask your son some routine questions about his movements, but he declined to answer them. We felt it might be best to bring him here." 
"Is he under arrest?" Mom's accent was coming on strong. Good old Mom. 
"Are you a United States citizen, ma'am?" Zit said. 
That did it. It was easy to tell when Grampa was switched on; the rhythmic, methodical maintenance twitching was replaced with a restless, all-over fidget; and his eyes darted around the room. "Is he in some kind of financial trouble? He doesn't need to wait for a bequest -- I'll write to the trustees right now." 
Sean restrained himself from saying hello again, now that Grampa was switched on. He kept himself focused on the task of keeping Grampa switched on. "He wishes you'd die because he hates you and he hates himself for it. When you die, he can stop hating you and start mourning you. He knows it wasn't your fault. That's why I'm here. I want to collect your stories and make some sense out of them, before you die." Sean took a deep breath. "Will you stay switched on?" 
Grampa looked uncomfortable. "Your grandmother used to ask me that. I'd promise her I'd do it, every time, but then. . . It's not voluntary, Sean. It's reflex." 
"It's a learned reflex, Grampa. It's not breathing. You didn't ask to have the surgery, but you learned the reflex all on your own. You allow your attention to drop below the threshold, you allow the chip to switch you off. Some people do it less," he jerked his head at the other old men and women, playing their twitch games and shouting argument at each other. "Some don't do it at all." 
I didn't say anything. 
"I know that's leaving you on your own. I don't want that, believe me. I'd much rather you give up with me. You can't declare war on the government of the USA. It's not a fight you're going to win. Watching you try is like watching a bird fly into a window again and again." 
He wanted me to say something. What I wanted to say was, Jesus Jolu, thanks so very much for abandoning me! Do you forget what it was like when they took us away? Do you forget what the country used to be like before they took it over? But that's not what he wanted me to say. What he wanted me to say was: "I understand, Jolu. I respect your choice." 
He drank the rest of his bottle and pulled out another one and twisted off the cap. 
"There's something else," he said. 
"What?" 
"I wasn't going to mention it, but I want you to understand why I have to do this." 
"Jesus, Jolu, what ?" 
"I hate to say it, but you're white . I'm not. White people get caught with cocaine and do a little rehab time. Brown people get caught with crack and go to prison for twenty years. White people see cops on the street and feel safer. Brown people see cops on the street and wonder if they're about to get searched. The way the DHS is treating you? The law in this country has always been like that for us." 
Nine months after her father died, winter had sent autumn as a threatening envoy. The bread ration was cut to 120 grams, and there were sometimes pebbles in the bread that everyone knew were there to increase the weight. 
She was proud that when the bread was bad, she and the other diggers cursed the enemy and not the city. Everyone knew that no one had it any better. They fought and suffered together. 
But she was so hungry all the time, and you couldn’t eat pride. One day she was in the queue for bread and reached out with her trembling hands to take her ration and then she turned with it and in a flash, a man old enough to be her father had snatched it out of her hands and run away with it! 
She chased after him and the shrill cries of the women followed them, but he knew the rubble-piles well and he dodged and weaved and she was so tired. Eventually she sat down and wept. 
That was when she saw her first zombie. Zombiism had been eliminated when she was practically a baby, just after the revolution, years and years ago. 
She sat down on the bed with me. 
"Yeah," she said. "That." 
"That." 
"Well, you know what you have to do, right?" 
"What?" She looked pointedly at my keyboard. I could see the tears rolling down her cheeks. "No! You're out of your mind. You think I'm going to run off with some nut off the Internet? Some spy?" 
"You got a better idea?" 
I kicked a pile of her laundry into the air. "Whatever. Fine. I'll talk to her some more." 
"You talk to her," Ange said. "You tell her you and your girlfriend are getting out." 
"What?" 
"Shut up, dickhead. You think you're in danger? I'm in just as much danger, Marcus. It's called guilt by association. When you go, I go." She had her jaw thrust out at a mutinous angle. "You and I -- we're together now. You have to understand that." 
We sat down on the bed together. 
"Unless you don't want me," she said, finally, in a small voice. 
"You're kidding me, right?" 
"Do I look like I'm kidding?" 
"There's no way I would voluntarily go without you, Ange. I could never have asked you to come, but I'm ecstatic that you offered." 
"She couldn't bear to give up either of the names she says." 
"Do you want to hear my name?" 
"I think I know already," answered Rebecca, with a bright glance. "I'm sure you must be Mr. Aladdin in the Arabian Nights. Oh, please, can I run down and tell Emma Jane? She must be so tired waiting, and she will be so glad!" 
At the man's nod of assent Rebecca sped down the lane, crying irrepressibly as she neared the wagon, "Oh, Emma Jane! Emma Jane! we are sold out!" 
Mr. Aladdin followed smilingly to corroborate this astonishing, unbelievable statement; lifted all their boxes from the back of the wagon, and taking the circular, promised to write to the Excelsior Company that night concerning the premium. 
"If you could contrive to keep a secret,—you two little girls,—it would be rather a nice surprise to have the lamp arrive at the Simpsons' on Thanksgiving Day, wouldn't it?" he asked, as he tucked the old lap robe cosily over their feet. 
They gladly assented, and broke into a chorus of excited thanks during which tears of joy stood in Rebecca's eyes. 
"Get out of here. Have a good time, gentlemen. I mean that. Punch out for the night, file your time card, raise some hell. There's not much left for us to accomplish." 
Somewhere out on the Garden, a high-decibel sound system kicks in. The walls start to vibrate with a shuddering, staccato rhythm and throbbing bass line that makes Ray's stomach squirm. "Go on. Sounds like they're starting without you." 
Kilgore, instead of wandering directly out the door, crosses the room and rummages through the desk drawer beneath his workstation. After a few moments he produces a pair of secure comm devices, small units that  plug into the ear with discreet vocal pickups— standard military issue. He tosses one device to Rodriguez and waves the other for Ray. 
"We'll be on Channel 12. Call if you need us, but you'll probably have to shout, okay?" Kilgore is already shouting, just to be heard over the sound of the music emanating from the concourse. He straps the antenna package to his belt where it will be hidden under his shirt and rolls his collar high up over the pickups so the unit is effectively invisible. "Test. Test. Can you hear me, Rodriguez?" 
Which he hopes to God is also the reason she won't fucking shut up, because at least if it's drug induced happity-yappity, at least he can expect her to crash some time in the near future. And then: blessed silence. He hopes. 
Most important, though, is the fact that she claims to have had contact with the Whistons, both on New H and with Miss Whiston in school on Strat. To listen to her, they (meaning she and Miss Whiston) have been tight since pre-school, hung out together at university like a pair of giggling gadabouts, did everything but the lesbo nasty while Miss Whiston had slipped free of the brother's leash (and maybe a little of that, too, though Kilgore suspects that's more chicky fantasy than anything else). 
Truth is, if he is any judge of bullshit at all, anything she knows about the Whistons, is only from reading gossip sheets and tabloids and more than likely just plain making stuff up that suits her. She's all gloss, all stupid cow beneath a glittering veneer (though once again, it most certainly is not a veneer he objects strenuously to). Frankly, he can't imagine the Miss Whiston he has encountered spending more than a few seconds on a gadfly like... 
"I've got the right to my privacy," I said. "And I want to speak to an attorney." 
"This is your last chance, kid. Honest people don't have anything to hide." 
"I want to speak to an attorney." My parents would pay for it. All the FAQs on getting arrested were clear on this point. Just keep asking to see an attorney, no matter what they say or do. There's no good that comes of talking to the cops without your lawyer present. These two said they weren't cops, but if this wasn't an arrest, what was it? 
In hindsight, maybe I should have unlocked my phone for them. 
They re-shackled and re-hooded me and left me there. A long time later, the truck started to move, rolling downhill, and then I was hauled back to my feet. I immediately fell over. My legs were so asleep they felt like blocks of ice, all except my knees, which were swollen and tender from all the hours of kneeling. 
Hands grabbed my shoulders and feet and I was picked up like a sack of potatoes. There were indistinct voices around me. Someone crying. Someone cursing. 
Checker stopped typing for a moment and leaned back. “They were best friends since they were about five, okay? Until, uh, a few years ago. They got each other through a lot, as kids. At least from my understanding of it.” 
“Oh, best friends,” I said snidely. “Is that what they’re calling it?” 
“What are you, a thirteen-year-old?” Checker snorted and went back to his keyboard. “I know I’m the last person you expect to say this, but not everything is about sex. Besides, Arthur’s had himself figured out since he was about ten. I’d be very surprised if anything ever happened between them.” 
I’d never heard of Sonya Halliday before last night, and here was Checker with her whole life’s history. Everyone else had known what was going on here before Arthur had pulled me in for dumb computational comprehension and hadn't even trusted me to agree to be that. 
I stabbed at the keyboard. 
“Hey,” said Checker. “This might be the most inappropriate time to ask this ever, but are you okay?” 
I kept stabbing. “Fine. It’s just a concussion.” 
The Marine stiffens noticeably. Right now he's thinking military CID or special forces or some other traditional covert organization. It's enough to shake him up, which is the way Ray wants him. 
"We've only been on about twenty minutes. Got here just about the time Becker was hollerin' for somebody to get him a locked line. They didn't let us in, just told us to guard the door and not let anybody in unless his name was Marlowe or he had captain's stripes on his sleeves." 
"So you haven't been inside?" 
"Nope. Just watched the dumbasses coming out. " 
"What do you think happened?" 
He shrugs, doesn't really care. "Somebody got whacked. People are puking and shit. I figure it must be pretty bad, at least by sec-o standards anyway. " 
Meaning, not as bad as they make it out to be, more than likely. 
"Does it strike you as unusual that you're guarding the door to a storage bay for a security investigation?" 
"No more'n being chatted up by a Smith for doing it. " Kilgore gives him a convivial wink. "Me and Rodriguez  were running inventory on the aft blast dump when the sec-o sweeper found the body. He gave us a shout on his portable and asked us to comm a call Becker on the crypto line. Becker asked us to seal the place down." 
I walked over and stared out at the birds flitting past the slatted window, feeling my hopes go up. The colors and the freedom. I wanted to be one of them, to take Sarah and just fly away. . . . 
Then, feeling vaguely drowsy, I settled myself down on the edge of the bed. The next thing I knew, though, the cha­otic music of the birds had begun to sound amplified as though they were swirling down a long, echoing hallway. In spite of myself, I felt my consciousness begin to drift. 
Shit, that needle he just slammed into my arm. It wasn't to take blood you idiot. You suspected that, but he was too fast. Shit. Shit. Shit. Don't let him do it. Stay awake. 
But now the tunnel was growing. I pulled myself up and staggered in slow motion to the door and tried it, but it seemed to be locked. I couldn't really tell, though, because the tunnel was swallowing me. 
No! I banged my head against the door, hoping the pain would bring me back, but the room just swirled even more. 
The tunnel. Now it was all around me, shadowy and dim. I thought I glimpsed Sarah at the end of it, wearing a white shift, beckoning me, but when I reached out for her, to take us away, all I could touch was empty mist. 
Ray says: "Hold on, okay? I'm going to send you a file." 
"Waiting." 
"I've added a set of schematics to your data structure. Take a look at them, if you would." 
"NeoSys Picomechanisms design concept." 
"That's just the first one. There are more than a thousand individual blueprints there. I need you to analyze them and store their functionality data in cache. " 
"They are schematics for the technical design of highly classified and Congressional Forum sanctioned nano and picomech service drones." 
"A majority of these devices have been designed to self-disassemble within twelve hours of use." 
"I'm banking that we got to the body soon enough that some traces of the mechs remained, and that you in turn, detected either their presence or their remains, but didn't know what you were looking for at that time." 
"More or less unlikely than our failure to match any of our current data against standard id databases?" 
"I do not understand the logic of your request." 
"Which is why I am the brains of this outfit and you are the underpaid but overworked grunt. " 
"Fine talk from a man whose hobby is building and smashing laptops," she said. 
"Touche," I said and touched my forehead. 
"Want some?" She held out her mister. 
"Pass," I said, quickly enough that we both laughed. 
When we left the restaurant and headed for Dolores park, she put her arm around my waist and I found that she was just the right height for me to put my arm around her shoulders. That was new. I'd never been a tall guy, and the girls I'd dated had all been my height -- teenaged girls grow faster than guys, which is a cruel trick of nature. It was nice. It felt nice. 
We turned the corner on 20th Street and walked up toward Dolores. Before we'd taken a single step, we could feel the buzz. It was like the hum of a million bees. There were lots of people streaming toward the park, and when I looked toward it, I saw that it was about a hundred times more crowded than it had been when I went to meet Ange. 
That sight made my blood run hot. It was a beautiful cool night and we were about to party, really party, party like there was no tomorrow. "Eat drink and be merry, for tomorrow we die." 
He stared at me, long and hard, blood still streaming from his face. Then he straightened up with an obvious effort, mopping a handful of the blood off in a fruitless effort at cleanup. The man had steel in him, I’d give him that. 
“I will never,” he said, “be on the same side as someone like that.” He spat on the ground, the expectorant a bloody mess but the message clear, and, still using his truck for support, got around to the driver’s side, levered himself in, and roared away. 
“It occurs to me,” said Rio, “that being acquainted with me is not the best decision for your social network.” 
“Screw my social network,” I said. 
Camarito was barely more than a truck stop, a ramshackle collection of buildings pretending to be a town. The gas station lighting up Main Street tried very hard to be a travel center and almost made it before giving up. A couple of truckers...  tables outside; Rio and I took one far away from everyone else. I sat back and watched the night while Rio went inside to...  part of my brain wanted to write Arthur Tresting off entirely. Nobody who threatened and belittled my friends—or my not-friends, whatever—deserved my help, or even my acquaintanceship. But a small, insistent voice pointed out that Tresting’s distrust of Rio was not outrageously unreasonable, and was maybe even an indication Tresting might be a good guy, or something. I was never quite clear on where the gray ended and the black and white began, but it wasn’t a stretch to put both Rio and me among the condemned, whereas Tresting—I wasn’t sure. I didn’t like him, but much as I wanted to, I couldn’t dismiss him or the information he might have just because of what he’d said about Rio. 
Arthur tried to sputter something in response, but Rio and I were already charging. 
It wasn’t even a contest. 
There is something beautiful about the high-speed math of a gunfight. I’ve heard other people opine that gunfights are confusing and disorienting, but to me, they always happen with perfect clarity: every bullet impact leads back to its source, every barrel sweeping through with its own exact trajectory. A firearm can only shoot in one possible direction at a time, after all. I could always see exactly where they aimed as if the predicted flights of the rounds were visible laser beams, and I could always move fast enough to step easily out of the way. 
The M4 pulsed in one hand, Rio’s grenades becoming fragmenting islands of destruction as thrown from the other. I fired as I ran, every muscle in my body coordinating in a precision dash to send my projected path leaping between the ever-changing, ever-crossing lines of danger. One shot, one kill. 
I had thirty rounds in the M4. I didn’t need them all. 
He took a quiet breath that sounded like relief. “Not a problem. Good. Thank you.” 
“Whatever. I’m surprised you still want to work together, after that show you made.” 
“Not sure I do,” he admitted frankly. “But I made a few calls. Like I said, I’d heard of you. Your rep’s solid.” 
Well, that was nice to know. I wondered which of my former clients he’d talked to. I wished I had a way to check him out, but I’d lost my information guy, and I hadn’t made a whole lot of friends in the past couple years I could check a reference with and trust the answer I got. 
For all I knew, I could be walking into a trap. It didn’t feel like one, but I had no way to know. 
Tresting was waiting when I arrived, a lean silhouette in the darkness. He’d cleaned up his face, and the damage didn’t look as bad as it probably was thanks to the darkness of the night and the dark shade of his skin, but I could still tell he’d been hit by a truck the shape of Rio’s palm. 
“This way,” he said. 
“I want to see the receiver first.” 
But Ada’s gasp made him look around, and he saw that they had cleared the city limits, and were vaulting over rolling farmlands now, jumping in long flat arcs whose zenith was just high enough for him to see the highway—the 401, they were headed east—in the distance. 
And then he saw what had made Ada gasp: boiling out of the hills and ditches, out of the trees and from under the cars: an army of headless, eight-armed black robots, arachnoid and sinister in the moonlight. They scuttled on the ground behind them, before them, and to both sides. Social Harmony had built a secret army of these robots and secreted them across the land, and now they were all chasing after them. 
The ride got bumpy then, as Benny beat back the tentacles that reached for them, smashing the black robots with mighty one-handed blows, his other hand supporting Arturo and Ada. Ada screamed as a black robot reared up before them, and Benny vaulted it smoothly, kicking it hard as he went, while Arturo clung on for dear life. 
Something in Becker's tone nags at him, accuses him. "You believe this is some sort of statement? What would the content of such a message be from the Lilaikens, Rich? 'Look! We're not afraid to hack up kids to get our point across'? It's an untenable argument. They don't gain anything from a gesture this mentally disturbed. " 
"Of course, it's not nearly as rational as blowing up starships." 
Ray doesn't know what to say at first. He feels like he's wincing, like he's one big, constant wince as he watches his career get sucked down the cosmic drain. "You know this wasn't done by Lilaikens. So what am I doing here?" 
Becker takes a deep breath. "You're being handed the lead on this investigation." 
"No." Flat, simple, implacable. This is so obviously bullshit, it has dandelions growing in it. "This is not part of my assignment. " 
Slowly, Becker rises. He tucks the pen in his trouser pocket. "It's being made part of your assignment as of now." 
"You don't have the authority to pull me off my current mission, and I don't have time to do both." 
I laughed too and looked around. No kidding. Her loft apartment was a wild mixture of stairs and galleries and lev­els—unconventional in every way. Also, it had a lot of in-your-face decor, outrageous...  signs of a wonderful, irreverent personality. Then too, stuffed animals and toys were strewn all over. 
"I can't really afford the rent," she declared, seeing me survey the place, "but I need the space for Kevin. I've just joined Bloomingdale's Anonymous. Twelve steps to shred­ding your charge plates." 
He was definitely adopted, sandy-haired and peachy, noth­ing like Carly's dark, severe strands and Mediterranean skin. When Marcy put him down, he tried to walk, and I felt my envy ratchet upward a notch. He'd just started taking tentative steps, at eleven months old, and there was still a Frankenstein quality as he strode stiff-legged, arms out for balance. 
I walked over, picked him up, and gave him a kiss. He looked like a Scandinavian travel poster, a cherubic vision, and I felt a great void growing where my heart had been. Then Marcy reached out and pried him from me. I hated to let him go so much I almost pulled him back. 
"Marcus, haven't you figured out that we're serious yet?" She shook her head. "You get pretty good grades. I thought you'd be smarter than that." She made a flicking gesture and the guards picked me up by the armpits. 
Back in my cell, a hundred little speeches...  d'escalier" -- the spirit of the staircase, the snappy rebuttals that come to you after you leave the room and slink down the stairs. In my mind, I stood and delivered, telling her that I was a citizen who loved my freedom, which made me the patriot and made her the traitor. In my mind, I shamed her for turning my country into an armed camp. In my mind, I was eloquent and brilliant and reduced her to tears. 
But you know what? None of those fine words came back to me when they pulled me out the next day. All I could think of was freedom. My parents. 
"Hello, Marcus," she said. "How are you feeling?" 
I looked down at the table. She had a neat pile of documents in front of her, and her...  I found it comforting somehow, a reminder that there was a real world out there somewhere, beyond the walls. 
“Want to talk about it?” said Arthur. 
That wasn’t what I had expected him to say. “No. No, I don’t. The thing is, I realized—I don’t care. I really don’t care. I don’t feel bad about it. I don’t feel any different. And it’s so much easier.” 
“Okay,” said Arthur. 
“‘Okay?’ I go back to killing people willy-nilly again and that’s all you have to say to me?” 
The bartender put down our next two shots so hastily they sloshed over his wrists before he retreated into the back and out of sight. 
Arthur made a shushing gesture and peered around the near-empty dive to see if I’d freaked out anyone else. “Ain’t saying I’m happy about it, but...well, I ain’t believe the ‘willy-nilly,’ first off. Thing is, Russell, you might say you don’t care, but I know for a fact you ain’t no killer. Don’t like you taking no hard line again, but I still got faith you only charging the guilty.” 
“And if I’m not?” 
He spun on his stool to lean back against the bar. “Well, that’s what I’m here for, ain’t it?” 
I tried to maintain a belligerent facade, but I’d never been good at bluffing. 
But if he didn't leave a package, what was he doing here? Casing out where I lived? Planting a bug in the elevator? And why was he here so long? 
The place was dark when I stepped in, the drapes drawn. I relocked the door, then surveyed the gloom. No explosions, so I guessed he didn't plan to kill me. Yet. Here I was, home, safe and sound. I just stood a minute, still uneasy. 
Then I remembered the flowers, my dripping bouquet, and headed for the kitchen. Deal with them, and then maybe get a bottle of white wine out of the fridge and sip some in the bath. 
After my unnerving sequence with Sarah, thoughts of going to the office had zero appeal. Time to lighten up, way up. 
Preoccupied, not looking around, I stuffed the roses into a vase by the sink, and then I thought again about the white wine and opened the refrigerator. I'd still not bothered to turn on any lights, but the kitchen and its ancient fridge were dimly illuminated by the tiny window just across. I wasn't sure where I'd put the bottle, since I'd had to rearrange things to make room for the dup of Carly's interview. (I was also planning to take home a safety dup of Paula's interview sometime later in the week.) 
“Fermentation’s tricky. Haven’t had much luck with it.” 
Nikko snagged the last piece of cheese. “Thanks for lunch. 
We’d better hit the road.” 
“Thanks for taking care of Wheeze,” I said. “I don’t know how to repay you.” 
“You already did. Got my computer working.” 
“I can do something useful while I’m here,” Wheeze said. Jane studied him. His breath rattled in his chest, but he sat up a little straighter and tried to look competent. 
“He’s good at fixing things,” I said. 
“I have an old pedal sewing machine that isn’t working right. 
Can you repair it?” He nodded. “What else are you good at?” 
“Screen printing. Making soup.” 
“Reading incredibly long books about the history of debt,” I added. 
“Debt?” 
“It’s more interesting than it sounds,” Wheeze said. 
“Well, I got a lot of old books and no time to read them. If you record them for me, I can listen while I do the chores.” 
“Deal.” He held out a hand and she slapped her palm into it, 
sealing the arrangement with a shake that made him wince. “You guys? Thanks,” he added, looking at Nikko and Bree, then at me. 
"Tell me how much you admire my investigative acumen and stunning intellect," Ray says. 
Becker lifts an eyebrow. "I did not come down here to give you a pep talk." 
"You're right. You came down so I could hand you a murder suspect. " 
The eyebrow inches higher. "Go ahead." 
Ray punches in a few keystrokes to access his secure data files. After a moment, the terminal screen flips to a series of jaggedly edited and meticulously timestamped video clips. There is no sound, because it became monotonously obvious that it was just a waste of bandwidth. Instead, Ray explains. "Over the past week, I've hacked into the data repository for the drone network, searching for images that might correspond with the night of the murder. Originally, I'd hoped that we might get lucky and have drones operating on Omicron around the time the body was dumped. Then I thought we might come up with data related to the actual commission of the crime— lift logs, movement tracking in the area, an immense amount of data given that even late at night we've got something like two thousand people up and rumbling around at any given time. I came up empty on both counts." 
Jankovich and Martens looked at each other, then Jankovich glanced at her watch and tapped it. “Look, I promised somebody I’d give 'em a call. Back in a minute.” 
For the next five minutes Martens made small talk with Nikko, 
asking him what he was studying in school, what plays he had acted in, deflecting Nikko’s questions about how he could help, 
even though he was technically a minor. Then Jankovich came back into the room. She gave Martens a little nod before taking her chair again. 
“Okay, here’s the thing,” Martens said. “We’re taking this seri- ously, okay? We need to find out if this guy’s for real or if he’s just blowing smoke.” 
“I could introduce him to one of your agents, somebody undercover.” 
“I’ll bet you could. The questions you asked? Nicely done. 
You’d make one hell of an interrogator.” He turned to Jankovich. 
“I want to recruit this young man when he’s a little older. Sorry Janet. I got first dibs.” 
She blew air out of her cheeks and looked at her watch, mak- ing it clear that she wanted to get this show on the road. 
“Mr. Tresting,” the man said in greeting. 
I glanced sharply at Tresting, but he was already nodding to concede the name. “Thought you wouldn’t have trouble with that.” 
“Your identity was easy enough to deduce. Your associate, however...” He extended a hand to me. “May I ask whom I have the pleasure of addressing?” 
I snorted. “You can ask. And who are you?” 
“Call me Steve.” 
At least he was obvious about it being an alias. I jerked my head toward Tresting. “So, Steve. Now that you know who he is, are you going to make trouble for Arthur here?” 
“Well, I suppose that depends.” 
“On what?” 
“On whether the two of you are determined to make trouble for me.” He sat, laying his hands against the top of the picnic table deliberately—and over-dramatically, in my opinion. “Let me be frank. I could not care less about any police trouble in which you two have ensnared yourselves. It would frankly be a waste of my time to become bogged down with aiding local law enforcement in their Gordian investigative practices; that is quite beneath my interest. I do, however, very much care about any involvement you may have with the organization known as Pithica.” 
Anda giggled. “Teach you to go rushing into things,” she said. She used up a couple scrying scrolls making sure that there was nothing else in the cottage save for millions of shirts and thousands of unarmed noob avatars that she’d have to mow down like grass to finish out the mission. 
She descended upon them like a reaper, swinging her sword heedlessly, taking five or six out with each swing. When she’d been a noob in the game, she’d had to endure endless fighting practice, “grappling” with piles of leaves and other nonlethal targets, just to get enough experience points to have a chance of hitting anything. This was every bit as dull. 
Her wrists were getting tired, and her chest heaved and her hated podge wobbled as she worked the keypad. 
It was a noob avatar, just like the others, but not just like it after all, for it moved with purpose, backing away from her sword. And it spoke English. 
› There are many here to kill—take me last at least. I need to talk to you. 
she typed. Meeting players who moved well and spoke English was hardly unusual in gamespace, but here in the cleanup phase, it felt out of place. It felt wrong . 
“I ain’t...thanks,” he said again. 
I looked around the ruined office. Depression had neatly replaced the smugness. “They’re kids,” I whispered. Maybe I was the monster he thought I was after all. “They’re kids.” 
“I know,” he said heavily, and it sounded like he did. 
I took a deep breath. “What now?” 
He hesitated. “I don’t know. Something’s different. First time Pithica’s targeted me.” 
“You think this was Pithica?” 
“Korean gang members trying to hit a black PI in a bad neighborhood,” Tresting recited. “Cops would write it off as a hate crime.” 
“So? Maybe it was.” 
“You saw the data, Russell. Hell, you’ve been attacked.” 
My thoughts ground to a halt. “They don’t want it investigated.” 
Tresting pointed a finger at me, as if to say, bingo. 
“They’re killing people in ways the police can write off easily,” I realized. “Close the case.” 
“Senseless tragedies,” he agreed. “Don’t know how Polk got Kingsley to write that note, but if it wasn’t for Leena—” He broke off. “Shit. Leena.” 
Randy stood up from the table. Bulky figures stepped out of the shadows behind them. Behind their armor, the Securitat people could have been white or black, old or young. Lawrence could only treat them as Securitat. He rose slowly from his chair and put his arms out, as though surrendering. As soon as the Securitat officers relaxed by a tiny hair -- treating him as someone who was surrendering -- he dropped backwards over the chair behind him, knocking over a little two-seat table and whacking his head on the floor so hard it rang like a gong. He scrambled to his feet and charged pell-mell for the door, sweeping the empty tables out of the way as he ran. 
He caught a glimpse of the pretty waitress standing by her podium at the front of the restaurant as he banged out the door, her eyes wide and her hands up as though to ward off a blow. He caromed off the wall of the dark corridor and ran for the glass door that led out to Second Avenue, where cars hissed by in the night. 
He made it onto the sidewalk, crashed into a burly man in a Mets cap, bounced off him, and ran downtown, the people on the sidewalk leaping clear of him. He made it two whole storefronts -- all the running around on the Campus handball courts had given him a pretty good pace and wind -- before someone tackled him from behind. 
“He did it,” she said to herself. “He made all this happen. I didn’t just break down. I haven’t been weak and hysterical. He made it all happen!” 
For a time her relief was an ecstasy. She could trust herself again. She was so happy in that knowledge that she could have shouted aloud, to waken Mrs. Royce and Captain Grey, and tell them. The monstrous burden was lifted, she was free, she was her old sturdy, trustworthy self again. 
She sank into a chair by the kitchen table, staring before her into the dark, her lips parted in a smile of gratitude and delight; and then, suddenly, the smile fled. She rose to her feet, her hands clenched, her whole body rigid. 
“He did it!” she said again. “It’s the vilest and most horrible thing anyone can do. He tried to steal my soul. He turned me into that poor, terrified, contemptible creature. I’ll never in all my life forgive him. I’m going to find out—about that, and about Caroline. I’ll never give up trying, and I’ll never forgive him!” 
She groped her way through the dark kitchen and into the hall. That was where she had first seen Dr. Quelton. She stopped and turned, as if she were looking into his face. 
Yeah. This place was perfect. 
The main entrance had a solid metal gate that was locked up with a rusted chain and padlock. I drove on by. Two other entrances were similarly barricaded, and three corrugated metal gates looked like they’d lead straight into buildings or down into underground loading docks. 
If they had any surveillance, it was likely to be at those points—and maybe along the wall, to see if anyone was climbing over. Squatting in a huge abandoned complex like this meant they probably wouldn’t have wired the whole thing up for security. 
Probably. 
Well, there was only one way to find out. 
I drove back around the complex to the end farthest from the freeway. The buildings abutting the street here were dilapidated: all crumbling brick and filthy, cracked concrete, with even the plywood nailed over the sparse, high windows dirty and warped. Considering how huge this place was, our bad guys had almost certainly based themselves in a more solid part of it. I’d break in here. 
"I want you to wear it." He's breathing hard. Too hard, really. "All the time." 
"You got me a ring?"  "Not that kind of ring. Just a thing. A—" 
"I see you got enough for all your girlfriends." The dreaded raised eyebrow, suggesting he has either made a major relationship blunder or is acting irrationally. Very possibly both. "What does this mean, this writing around the edges?" 
Ray thinks he might be experiencing some sort of lethal medical condition. He's having trouble taking a breath that's actually deep enough to satisfy what seems to be a severe case of oxygen deprivation. He suspects his brain itself is suffocating, a billion neurons a second snuffling vacuum, pitching over with a uniform scream. The idea of actually sucking in air to say something seems idiotic to him. "It says I care about you. That I want you to be safe. Just put it on your finger. Please." 
"It's on." 
Painstakingly, he collects the extras, wiping them off on his pant leg before jamming them back in his pocket. 
Tresting revved the engine, the tires spinning against the sandy ground before they found enough purchase to rocket the truck forward with an almighty lurch. We bounced back onto the dusty highway, the headlights sluicing through the empty darkness. 
“So,” I said. “GPS tracker?” 
Tresting’s eyebrows jumped in surprise, and his teeth flashed in a sheepish grin. He put one hand in a jacket pocket and held up the tiny device between two fingers. “Smart gal.” 
“On the bike,” I guessed, sure I was figuring this right. “You retrieved it when you got the Glock. And you knew to trace the bike because...you had another tracker on Courtney.” 
He looked surprised again. “Quick study, too.” 
“Which is how you found us at the motel. And you must have been watching where Polk is in LA. When I came back on the bike before leaving, you slapped another GPS on that. Smart.” 
“Thanks.” 
“Unless your clumsy surveillance gets my client killed, in which case I will not be amused. In fact, I’ll be so unamused I’ll put a bullet in you.” 
I walked into Chinatown and had dim sum buns and noodles with hot-sauce that I had previously considered to be pretty hot, but which would never seem anything like hot ever again, not now that I'd had an Ange special. 
As the day wore on toward the afternoon, I got on the BART and switched to a San Mateo bridge shuttle bus to bring me around to the East Bay. I read my copy of On the Road and dug the scenery whizzing past. On the Road is a semi-autobiographical novel about Jack Kerouac, a druggy, hard-drinking writer who goes hitchhiking around America, working crummy jobs, howling through the streets at night, meeting people and parting ways. Hipsters, sad-faced hobos, con-men, muggers, scumbags and angels. There's not really a plot -- Kerouac supposedly wrote it in three weeks on a long roll of paper, stoned out of his mind -- only a bunch of amazing things, one thing happening after another. He makes friends with self-destructing people like Dean Moriarty, who get him involved in weird schemes that never really work out, but still it works out, if you know what I mean. 
Her hair was tangled and she was wearing black jeans and a black sweater. It took a second before I finally processed the fact it was Carly Grove. And she seemed frantic. I as­sumed she’d come in a cab, but she had my home phone number, so why would she come over if I didn't answer? New Yorkers don't just drop in. A social no-no. 
Maybe the reason had something to do with how she looked. I felt like I was seeing a specter. 
"Thank God you're here," she blurted out, striding up. She was actually shaking, and I could tell she'd been crying. Nothing like the gutsy woman I'd seen a few days earlier. "I kept getting your machine, but I thought maybe you were hiding." 
I looked at her, and forgot all about my own issues. It was hard to remember ever seeing a human being in such distress, except for Sarah. 
"Why would I be hiding?" I was taking out the Betacam bag and closing my car door, hoping to seem normal and professional. 
"They called me about six o'clock tonight. Children of Light." She could barely get the words out. "They'd seen my interview with you. How did they get it?" 
He was right. Shit. You already know they aren’t on the level, idiot. Why are you still looking for honest explanations? 
My head started to hurt, an aching, buzzing pain behind my eyes. I pushed it away. “What else did you find on Courtney?” 
“Born and raised in rural Nebraska, moved out to Los Angeles a few years ago,” recited Checker. “On paper, totally boring until the arrest warrant for murder. She grew up with an aunt and uncle in Nebraska after her parents died. They didn’t have any kids who could have been a ‘sister’ either,” he added, preempting the question I’d been opening my mouth to ask. “And aside from them, all her living relatives are of the distant variety.” 
“Does she have a psych record?” I asked. 
“What part of ‘totally boring’ didn’t you understand?” said Checker. 
“We ought to look into Dawna,” said Tresting. “Whoever she is.” 
The buzzing pain got worse, the strange insistence of wrong, no, Dawna’s all right! still tugging at my consciousness. 
I beat it back savagely with a mental crowbar. What the hell was going on with me? “Yeah,” I forced myself to say. “I agree.” 
Lou just shrugged and leaned back in his seat. "Take as long as you like. I'll just wait here in the car. I'm not the nature type." 
That was certainly the case. 
I walked across the cobblestones to an arched entryway that had no door. I wondered at this—most convents are like a fortress—and then I realized the front door had been re­moved, leaving only its ancient hinges still bolted into the stones. Perhaps it was intended to be a symbol of openness, inviting you in. 
There was no sign of anybody—the saccharine-voiced Ramala was not on hand to greet me—so I just headed on down a wide hallway, past a table of brochures. The place had been decorated with expensive good taste: tapestries all over the stone...  church statuary—all of it calling forth powerful feelings from deep in the psyche. 
Then I entered a vast interior courtyard, where a central fountain splashed cheerily in the midday light. The courtyard was circled with a picturesque gallery of cells, all with mas­sive wooden doors, most likely rooms once inhabited by chaste sisters. 
“Not here!” he said, in a dazed, flat voice. 
Lexy could not speak at all. She had come out on the balcony, and stood beside him. The sound of the sea was loud in her ears—or was it the beating of her own heart? She held her breath and strained her eyes in the darkness. 
“There’s—something—here!” she whispered tensely. 
“No!” he said aloud. “I looked. Come! We’ll go through the house.” 
She followed close at his heels. He went into every room, lit the gas, looked about, and found nothing. Lexy grew confused with the opening and closing of doors, the sudden flare of light in the darkness, the succession of empty rooms. 
He went up into the cupola. Nothing there, nor in the servants’ rooms. Then downstairs, through the long library, the dining room, the sitting room, the kitchen, the pantry. He proceeded with a sort of merciless deliberation, opened every door, looked into every cupboard. 
Finding a stable lantern in the kitchen, he lighted it and carried it with him. The door to the cellar stood open. He went through it, down the steep wooden stairs, and Lexy followed him. 
"Now," she said, once she'd poured and served. "It's very good to see you all again. Marcus, I think the last time I saw you, you were maybe seven years old. As I recall, you were very excited about your new video games, which you showed me." 
I didn't remember it at all, but that sounded like what I'd been into at seven. I guessed it was my Sega Dreamcast. 
She produced a tape-recorder and a yellow pad and a pen, and twirled the pen. "I'm here to listen to whatever you tell me, and I can promise you that I'll take it all in confidence. But I can't promise that I'll do anything with it, or that it's going to get published." The way she said it made me realize that my Mom had called in a pretty big favor getting this lady out of bed, friend or no friend. It must be kind of a pain in the ass to be a big-shot investigative reporter. There were probably a million people who would have liked her to take up their cause. 
Mom nodded at me. Even though I'd told the story three times that night, I found myself tongue-tied. This was different from telling my parents. Different from telling Darryl's father. This -- this would start a new move in the game. 
"It's dark," the Series A man said, jinking from foot to foot, making the camera sway seasick. 
"The bus," Lee-Daniel said. "Get in the bus. Get everyone to the bus. This isn't our fight." He looked around for Elaine, but he didn't see her. Headed for the bus, that's what you did in an emergency. Fuck. 
It was an emergency. There was an even tramping of feet ahead of him, behind him, to his left and right. He stood, slowly, and put his hands in the air. 
"I'm not a combatant," he said, loudly, but in a steady voice. 
He walked toward the bus, hands still in the air. "I am not a combatant," he said again. A laser dot climbed his toe, his leg, centered on his gut. He looked down at it. 
"They will shoot you, you know," Cobra said. "They shoot. They think they're playing cowboys and indians." He sounded very calm. 
"I am not a combatant," he said again, taking another step forward. A second red dot joined the first, climbing his leg and resting within inches of the first, dancing and bobbing like a firefly. From the woods,...  Lee-Daniel said. 
“You’re strange, Zen,” she said. “In a good way. Let’s have some breakfast.” 
I made some of my...  fried up some potatoes and...  some chopped up leftovers from the back of the fridge that she sniffed carefully first. It turned into a weird kind of celebration the way natural disasters sometimes turn festive for a while. My dad told me this: People whose houses get flooded or blown down in a tor- nado suddenly love their neighbors and want to help each other out and say to reporters their community is special and really pulls together. 
That usually doesn’t last too long, though. They...  they’re at each other’s throats again. Standing up to the police made us feel good, but lurking not too far away was anxiety for Wilson and fear that we’d all get screwed by the authorities. 
“So,” Monica said, wiping her plate with a piece of toast. “I’m wondering about today. I have that weekend college class to teach, 
and then I was going to meet Novak. He wants to go to a play tonight.” 
“Yes, but I don’t think I should go. What if they come back with a warrant?” 
“Power’s not the problem,” I said. “It’s an EMP. They fried every circuit board from here to Phoenix. Anything run by a chip will have to be replaced before it’ll work again, even after the power comes back on line.” 
He seemed to get it. “That’s why the cell phones are out, too.” 
“Yeah. I’m guessing landlines might still work as long as they weren’t fancy cordless phones with a power connection—well, assuming something somewhere along the way in the telephone network hasn’t started being run by a computer. And shortwave radio would still work.” That was the sum total of Checker’s and my combined knowledge and guesses about post-apocalyptic emergency communication. I hoped the base would have one or the other. And I hoped Arthur was listening to me. 
“I can’t believe Dawna—” His mouth twisted, and he ran a hand over his face. 
It was exactly the opening I needed. “Well, she’ll have more than enough to occupy her soon. Rio managed to poison her, you know. Back when we were all captured. A bad poison, too. She’ll be starting to feel the effects any time now and be dead in two days. Christ, what a relief.” I bit my lip. I was talking too much, but then, I’m a very bad liar. 
There was another silence. 
By this time Lexy had reached the head of the stairs. Beside her was an open door, through which she could look, while she herself was hidden from view. Beyond it was, as she had thought, the cupola—a small octagonal room with windows on every side, through which the sun poured in a dazzling flood. There was nothing in the room except a white enamel table, a stool, a porcelain sink, and an open cabinet, upon the shelves of which stood rows and rows of bottles, each one labeled. Facing this cabinet, and with their backs toward the door, stood the two men—the doctor with his shoulders hunched and his hands clasped behind him, and Captain Grey, tall, slender, straight as a wand. 
“Materia medica—that is my art,” said the doctor. “I have devoted my life to it, and I have learned—a little. I have made experiments. A psychologist will offer to tell you why a man has murdered his grandmother. I can’t pretend to do that, but I can give that man a tablet which will make it practically certain that he will kill his grandmother if they are left alone together for ten minutes.” 
In the cop voice. She shrank back as though slapped. 
“Do you understand your rights?” 
“Yes,” Natalie said. “I understand my rights. Congratulations on your promotion, Arturo.” 
“Please ask your robots to stand down and return my goods. I’m bringing you in now.” 
“I’m sorry, Arturo,” she said. “But that’s not going to happen.” 
He stood up and in a second both of her robots had his arms. Ada screamed and ran forward and began to rhythmically pound one of them with a stool from the breakfast nook, making a dull thudding sound. The robot took the stool from her and held it out of her reach. 
“Let him go,” Natalie said. The robots still held him fast. “Please,” she said. “Let him go. He won’t harm me.” 
The robot on his left let go, and the robot on his right did, too. It set down the dented stool. 
“Artie, please sit down and talk with me for a little while. Please.” 
He rubbed his biceps. “Return my belongings to me,” he said. 
“Sit, please?” 
“Natalie, my daughter was kidnapped, I was gassed and I have been robbed. I will not be made to feel unreasonable for demanding that my goods be returned to me before I talk with you.” 
I had no proof Sarah was in Guatemala yet, and if she was, it would doubtless be under a different name. What's more, telling them my suspicion that she'd been kidnapped by a high official and brought here would definitely brand me as a conspiracy theorist. So for now, all I could really hope to get from them was an address for Alex Goddard's clinic, someplace to start. Where and what was "Ninos del Mundo"? Apparently the woman hadn't fully understood that. 
Moments later a thirtyish male attache showed up, looking very harried. He also could have been president of the local Young Republicans, with a cute haircut and preppie tie, knot­ted perfectly. 
"Hi, I'm Mel Olberg. How can I . . .?" 
I told him I wanted to see someone who was responsible for the records of missing American tourists. I also sensed he was edgy and trying to get it over with fast; all the while he kept checking his watch, only half listening. 
"Gee, I really wish you'd come earlier," he said. "Monday afternoons are a little nuts around here, weekly reports due and all, and it's getting late." When he glanced at his watch again, making sure I noticed, I found myself wanting to yell at the guy. "I mean it's been two years since this woman you're looking for filled out a landing card. We might have something in the files, but. . . would it be possible for you to come back tomorrow?" 
"'All we were doing was dancing. I brought my little brother. Bands played and we talked about freedom, about how we were losing it to these jerks who say they hate terrorists but who attack us though we're not terrorists we're Americans. I think they hate freedom, not us. 
"We danced and the bands played and it was all fun and good and then the cops started shouting at us to disperse. We all shouted take it back! Meaning take America back. The cops gassed us with pepper spray. My little brother is twelve. He missed three days of school. My stupid parents say it was my fault. How about the police? We pay them and they're supposed to protect us but they gassed us for no good reason, gassed us like they gas enemy soldiers.' 
"Similar accounts, including audio and video, can be found on Al-Jazeera's website and on the Xnet. You can find directions for accessing this Xnet on NPR's homepage." 
Dad came down. 
"Do you use the Xnet?" he said. He looked intensely at my face. I felt myself squirm. 
He made a choking sound. “Some of the things Arthur said make a lot more sense now. I’m going to kill him.” 
“I take it you’ve heard of Rio, too, then.” 
“Heard of—!” He cut himself off. I could practically hear him mentally rearranging his impression of me in light of the whole works-with-a-mass-murdering-sadist connection. I closed my eyes, heartily tired of this. “That name,” whispered Checker. “Some of the less-than-reputable people I’ve known, before I met Arthur—he terrifies them, beyond reason. It’s like he’s the boogie man. People invoke his name like he’s a demon or something. Cas Russell, I like you so far, but...” 
“I trust him,” I said, for what felt like the thousandth time. 
“To do what?” 
That was a good question. What did trust mean, exactly? “To have my back,” I said. 
“I have to think about this.” 
“He got Arthur and me out of there.” 
“He did?” 
“Yes. I told you, I trust him.” I tried for impatient, but the words just came out drained. 
“He’s after Pithica?” 
“Yes.” 
The other two nodded glumly and we set off downhill again, heading back towards home. I lived on Potrero Hill, Vanessa lived in the North Mission and Jolu lived in Noe Valley -- three wildly different neighborhoods just a few minutes' walk from one another. 
We turned onto Market Street and stopped dead. The street was barricaded at every corner, the cross-streets reduced to a single lane, and parked down the whole length of Market Street were big, nondescript 18-wheelers like the one that had carried us, hooded, away from the ship's docks and to Chinatown. 
Each one had three steel steps leading down from the back and they buzzed with activity as soldiers, people in suits, and cops went in and out of them. The suits wore little badges on their lapels and the soldiers scanned them as they went in and out -- wireless authorization badges. As we walked past one, I got a look at it, and saw the familiar logo: Department of Homeland Security. The soldier saw me staring and stared back hard, glaring at me. 
She held up her hand. "That wasn't the arrangement. I was to have complete access to this facility. That came direct from the Governor, sir. We aren't budging until you open these cells." Her face was perfectly smooth, without a single hint of give or flex. She meant it. 
The Captain looked like he needed sleep. He grimaced. "I'll see what I can do," he said. 
They did manage to open the cells, finally, about half an hour later. It took three tries, but they eventually got the right codes entered, matching them to the arphids on the ID badges they'd taken off the guards they'd arrested. 
They got into Ange's cell first. She was dressed in a hospital gown, open at the back, and her cell was even more bare than mine had been -- just padding all over, no sink or bed, no light. She emerged blinking into the corridor and the police camera was on her, its bright lights in her face. Barbara stepped protectively between us and it. Ange stepped tentatively out of her cell, shuffling a little. There was something wrong with her eyes, with her face. She was crying, but that wasn't it. 
He turned to the Series A man expectantly. "Fuck that," he said, in an uncharacteristic burst of blue talk. "Drive, goddamit! Now!" 
Lee-Daniel pointed at him and said, "Two," then pointed at the Series B man and said, "Three." He pointed at the middle-managers behind him and they began to count off methodically. 
The Series A man turned around and shouted, "Shut the fuck up or I'll throw your ass out of the fucking bus. Drive ! " 
Lee-Daniel looked at Mac. "Better drive, LD," he said. 
They were already 20 miles off from the Rez when Elaine told him that Stinky and the kid never got on the bus. 
Three more raiders looted equipment off the bus. Lee-Daniel played a little game with himself, betting on which one would be the next to turn raccoon. He was two for three within twenty minutes. 
"Stop them!" the Series A man said. 
"Why?" Lee-Daniel said. 
"They'll ruin us!" the Series B man said. 
"They'll ruin you ." Lee-Daniel said. "There go the satellite uplinks. Wow. Good retirement benefit." 
“This isn’t like you, either,” Rio observed calmly. “Something’s affecting you.” 
“Something’s affecting me?” I cried incredulously. “Well, yes, genius, things affect me! You think you’re such an expert on emotion all of a sudden? You? Did you ever think that maybe I’m reacting like a normal human person?” 
“Cas—” Rio tried to cut in, but I wasn’t having any of it. 
“The poor woman has done nothing but care about her little sister, and she’s being dragged into this whole violent mess with drug dealers and cops, and now we find out someone very dangerous called her and lied to her, and you want to dump it all on her? Maybe while we’re doing that, the people we should have been investigating will take their sweet time to come kill her and Courtney!” 
“Cas, sit down—” 
“No, fuck you, Rio!” I spat. I wasn’t sure when I had stood, but I was looming over him, so angry I felt like my skin was splitting open, my insides seizing. “I don’t owe you a goddamn thing! What, does it ruin your sick little masturbatory fantasies that I might care what happens to someone else? Too bad! Because unlike some fucked-up people, I have emotions, and morals, and a sense of right and wrong that doesn’t come from some demented version of the Bible!” Red was fuzzing around the corners of my vision. I wanted to hit him, to hit him so hard that he wouldn’t get back up. The math pricked my senses all over, whispering of all the ways I could strike. Maim. Kill. “And you? You dare preach to me about how I should or shouldn’t act, well, fuck you, because I’m not a fucking psychopath!” 
From what seems to be kilometers away, there is screaming. High pitched, ringing with terror, choking to silence. 
"Where is it coming from?" Kilgore growls. 
Ray strains to listen, but there are bulkheads and strange echoes, any number of distorting baffles between them. He steps out into the corridor, where there are bodies. Some are puddles of flesh, things he's seen before. Others are shattered wrecks, as though they've been smashed by hammers the size of tree trunks. The flesh is mangled, battered, stretched by bones which have poked through the skin. The walls are streaked with blood, angry red flowers from impact points where corpses flopped like tossed dolls and languid, wavy arcs from crewmen who slid lazily from wall to deck. Ray counts a dozen before he stops. 
He keeps himself from panic, from sounding panicked. "Becker, I need orientation on this deck." 
"What do you see?" 
A bunch of dead guys. 
"I just climbed off the ladder. It seems to be cognate to the ladder position on Omicron." First things first, he thinks. "You'd better direct me to the reactor control room to start. We'll want to confirm that they're still operating and warn them about trouble. How close are your guys?" 
She stood a moment longer and then there was a sound like far-away thunder. A second later, a little wind. On its heels, a bigger wind, icy cold and then hot as the oven when you open the door, nearly blowing her off her feet. It smelled like something dead or something deadly. She ran as fast as she could across the street, pounding hell for leather to her front door. Just as she reached for it, there was a much louder thunderclap, one that lifted her off her feet and tossed her into the air, spinning her around. As she spun around and around, she saw the brave red dome of the cine disintegrate, crumble to a million shards that began to rain down on the street. Then the boom dropped her hard on the pavement and she saw no more. 
The day after the siege began, the doctor fitted Valentine for her hearing aid and told her to come back in ten years for a battery change. She hardly felt it slide under her skin but once it was there, the funny underwatery sound of everything and everyone turned back into bright sound as sharp as the cine’s had been. 
I moved down the corridor lightly and sprightly, keeping my gait even and measured for the gait-recognition cameras. These had been installed only a year before, and I loved them for their sheer idiocy. Beforehand, we'd had face-recognition cameras covering nearly every public space in school, but a court ruled that was unconstitutional. So Benson and a lot of other paranoid school administrators had spent our textbook dollars on these idiot cameras that were supposed to be able to tell one person's walk from another. Yeah, right. 
I got back to class and sat down again, Ms Galvez warmly welcoming me back. I unpacked the school's standard-issue machine and got back into classroom mode. The SchoolBooks were the snitchiest technology of them all, logging every keystroke, watching all the network traffic for suspicious keywords, counting every click, keeping track of every fleeting thought you put out over the net. We'd gotten them in my junior year, and it only took a couple months for the shininess to wear off. Once people figured out that these "free" laptops worked for the man -- and showed a never-ending parade of obnoxious ads to boot -- they suddenly started to feel very heavy and burdensome. 
“Hello, Cas,” Rio greeted me, when he saw I was sitting up. “How are you feeling?” 
“Like I’ve been shot,” I answered. 
He nodded. “Understandable, given the circumstances.” 
Arthur threw up his hands in what I could only have described as flailing. 
“But I’m getting better,” I told Rio, ignoring Arthur. I felt more energetic, and I was awake, which was a change, and the numbers surrounding me weren’t quite as sluggish as they had been, and I knew the answer to how fast I was metabolizing the drugs, so things were looking up. 
“Thanks be to God,” said Rio. He came over and checked the IV bags hanging above my head. 
I thought the thanks were due to Rio, myself—oh, all right, Arthur too—but I was sensitive enough to Rio’s beliefs that I didn’t say it out loud. Instead I said, “I heard you made a daring rescue.” Arthur mumbled something about getting me food and retreated to the kitchen area at the far side of the room. 
“It was not hard once you provided the opportunity,” answered Rio. 
He began by asking me some very perceptive questions, about things that had been puzzling me but I'd sort of man­aged to dismiss. Finally, he walked around the counter and lifted a small, shrink-wrapped box off a rack. 
"Try this," he said handing it over, "and then come back tomorrow. Maybe it's not such a big deal." 
You're kidding, I thought, looking at the box. 
I got home, collapsed onto the couch, and opened it. Be­lieve it or not, I actually had to read the instructions. I did what they said, checked the time, and then decided to run a hot bath. 
I filled the tub, dumped in some bubble-bath, put the cord­less on the toilet seat, and splashed in. It felt so good I wanted to dissolve. Then I reached for the phone. 
The clock above the sink read eight-thirty, and I figured rightly, that Steve would be back at his hotel in Belize City. Sure enough I got him on the first try. 
"Honey, you sitting down?" I said. 
"I'm lying down. You wouldn't believe my day." 
"You 're not going to believe what I just heard from the pharmacist at the corner. Remember I told you I've been feeling strange, and some things were a little behind sched­ule? Well, guess what. We're about to find out something. We can't be together, but we can share it over a satellite." 
Halliday yanked me back, stumbling herself. I’d glimpsed the surf crashing against the rocks far, far below. 
Tires screeched behind us, and I pulled Halliday down. We hit our bellies in the dry grass and peered back the way we had come. But the SUV wasn’t gunning for us; it was haring away, skidding in its hurry. 
Another followed, and another, swerving and careening as if they fled from the devil. 
“They’re running,” said Halliday, her voice hoarse and scratching. She coughed into her shoulder. 
That they were. And it hit me—if we were anywhere near a single other sign of civilization, this explosion would attract the authorities, no question. This area might be fairly deserted, but nowhere in Southern California was the middle of the Yukon, and unlike some people I’d tangled with, these guys didn’t have law enforcement in their pockets, couldn’t afford to bring attention to themselves when a federal investigation was already barking against their heels. They didn’t have time to stay and hunt us down and murder us, not when it might mean their own skins, not when they didn’t know if law enforcement had caught wind of this. 
He opened the door again. Benny was there, imperturbable. Unlike the UNATS robots, he was odorless, and perfectly silent. 
“I’m going to go to the toilet and then make...  
“I would be happy to assist in any way possible.” 
“I can wipe myself, thanks,” Arturo said. He washed his face twice and tried to rinse away the flavor left behind by whatever had shat in his mouth while he was unconscious. There was a splayed toothbrush in a glass by the sink, and if it was his wife’s—and whose else could it be?—it wouldn’t be the first time he’d shared a toothbrush with her. But he couldn’t bring himself to do it. Instead, he misted some dentifrice onto his fingertip and rubbed his teeth a little. 
There was a hairbrush by the sink, too, with short mousy hairs caught in it. Some of them were grey, but they were still familiar enough. He had to stop himself from smelling the hairbrush. 
“Oh, Ada,” he called through the door. 
“Yes, Detective?” 
“Tell me about your hair-don’t, please.” 
“It was a disguise,” she said, giggling. “Mom did it for me.” 
“I—uh—thank you?” managed Zhang. His expression was more hapless fear than gratitude, but Arthur just pressed his lips together and hustled the man off with us. 
We drove together; I took the wheel in Arthur’s rental car. He didn’t bring up his and Checker’s conversation with me, for which I was grateful. I’d shoved all of it—my discoveries, Checker’s stupid accusations, our fight, everything—into a box in the back of my head to deal with later, neatly compartmentalizing. I was back on the job, and I had to be able to focus. 
I swallowed back against my hangover and drove. 
The first thing we did was button up Dr. Zhang in one of my bolt holes with Pilar watching him. Then we drove to the safe house. 
Arthur hadn’t given Halliday any details over the phone—our assumption that the NSA was a third party to her calls meant any details about Martinez would have sent them after her in a heartbeat. Arthur probably wanted to sort everything out first, make sure he was giving the right target to the right people. If we could sort it out. 
“It’s Kate I want to talk to. She’s still there, right?” 
“She is.” 
“And has she noticed the difference?” 
“That you’re gone? Yes. The reef told us who they were when they arrived.” 
“Hold on, what? The reef? You said that before.” 
So Robbie told him what he knew of the uplifted reef and the distant and cool voice of the uplifter. 
“It’s an uplifted coral reef ? Christ, humanity sucks . That’s the dumbest fucking thing—” He continued in this vein for a while. “Well, I’m sure Kate will enjoy that immensely." 
“You’re her son?” 
“No, not really.” 
“But she had you?” 
“Haven’t you figured it out yet, bro? Kate instantiated me. I’m six months old, and she’s already bored of me and has moved on. She says she can’t give me what I need.” 
“You and Kate—” 
“Robot boyfriend and girlfriend, yup. Such as it is, up in the noosphere. Cybering, you know. I was really excited about downloading into that Ken doll on your ship there. Lots of potential there for real world, hormone-driven interaction. Do you know if we—” 
My first instinct was to knock him on the head and get him out of my way. But he was...  probably part of a gang considering the area and the colored bandanna knotted around his bicep, and aching to prove himself. Even if he was doing so by picking on a small woman who resembled a disturbed homeless person at the moment. 
“Are you trying to pick a fight with me?” I asked evenly, lounging back against the tree and letting the grip of the cop’s Glock peek out of my belt. The kid’s eyes got wide, and he stumbled back a step. 
I glanced back at Courtney’s house. The men in dark suits were filing out the front door, either leaving for good or planning to return with a sledgehammer. Either way, I had missed it. I sighed and turned back to the gang member. “Hey, kid. Watch this.” I leaned down, pried up an old tennis ball from where it was embedded in the dust, and threw it hard off to the side. 
A series of soft pings sounded—across the street, behind us. The kid looked around, confused. Then the tennis ball came rocketing from the other direction and bopped him lightly on the head. 
“Are you crazy?” 
“There’s a bunch more of those things in here, and things with wires and — ” 
“Leave it alone. Jesus.” Danny set the sausage down carefully. 
“How much of this do you have?” He asked Marsh, man to man. 
“How much do you need?” 
“Depends on the target. Gotta do the calculations.” 
“See?” Jack said to Marsh. “Simon was right. He knows his stuff.” 
“What do you have in mind? The I-35 bridge?” Marsh asked Danny, as if the whole thing had been Danny’s idea. 
“You don’t want to go for a bridge. Too strategic, too many cameras.” Danny stretched his shoulders, as if he was finally wak- ing up. “But those tank cars coming in from North Dakota?” He rubbed his nose and leaned forward, imparting a secret. “Stuff’s highly combustible. Those old tankers aren’t designed for it. 
They’re basically rolling bombs, and they travel right through Minneapolis. Do it right, you wouldn’t need more than what you got right here to reduce a whole neighborhood to smoking ruin.” 
“That would be huge. So, walk us through it,” Jack said. 
A truly terrifying few seconds followed—shouting and smoke and gunfire, and I couldn’t move, couldn’t duck, and neither could Martinez—and then the only shapes navigating through the smoke were black layers of body armor and helmets carrying MP5s and M4s at the ready. 
Someone was trying to talk to me, an officer-agent-person with a rifle in one hand and his other hand touching my neck, searching out a pulse; he shouted to someone and then moved over to Martinez. There was a lot more movement, a lot of people hurrying and shouting “clear” and running back and forth, and I was glad I didn’t have to join in, but could just sit here and be still and in pain and cough every so often. 
And then Arthur appeared next to me as if by magic, wearing a vest himself and gently unwinding the chains around my wrists. “Arthur,” I slurred. “You got my message.” 
He leaned forward briefly so his forehead touched mine. “Yeah. We got your message.” 
I tried to push myself up as soon as Arthur finished freeing me. He attempted to stop me with some nonsense about waiting for the paramedics, but when it became clear I was determined to ignore him he got an arm under me and helped me wobble upright while berating me gently for being stupid. 
“I can’t understand,” Lexy went on. “It’s terrible! I can’t tell you now; but I’ll meet you here this afternoon, after lunch—about two o’clock—and I’ll tell you then.” 
She turned away, then, in haste to get back to Mrs. Enderby, but he stopped her. 
“Remember!” he said sternly. “I’ve trusted you. If Caroline hasn’t told her people about me, you mustn’t mention my name. I gave her my word that I would let her do the telling. I didn’t want it that way, but I promised her, and you’ve got to do the same. If she hasn’t told about me, you’re not to.” 
“Oh, Lord!” cried poor Lexy. “Well, all right, I won’t! Now, for goodness’ sake, go away, and let me alone—to do the best I can!” 
Lexy was late. The half hour had been considerably exceeded when she ran up the steps of the Enderbys house. She rang the bell, and the door was opened promptly by Annie. 
“Mrs. Enderby would like to see you at once, miss,” the parlor maid said primly. 
But Lexy stopped to look covertly at Annie. Did she know anything? It was possible. Anything was possible now. Lexy was obliged to admit, however, that Annie had no appearance of guilt or mystery. A brisk and sober woman of middle age, who had been with the family for nearly ten years, she looked nothing more or less than disapproving because this young person had presumed to keep Mrs. Enderby waiting for several minutes. 
“It’s only been a few minutes—I called as soon as I could get away. I think they’re sending people now.” 
Geography splayed out in my brain. If Zhang was at his office, the NSA had him surrounded already. But my current location was only minutes from his home address—and considering Los Angeles congestion, that gave me a massive advantage. 
Of course, if he was smart he wouldn’t be in either place, but his home might give us evidence of what he was really up to. 
“Call Arthur,” I said. “Tell him I’m on the way to Zhang’s house.” Agents were probably listening in on this call, but we’d have to come up with a story for them anyway. Right now I just wanted to get to Zhang first. 
I hung up, dragged my sleeve across my tongue—it didn’t help—and slammed out of the apartment. 
Dr. Zhang lived in a very nice two-story colonial in suburbia—or, well, Burbank, which was as close as LA got to suburbia. Well-groomed rose bushes lined the walk, and a few kids’ toys were scattered on the lawn. The place even had a freaking white picket fence. 
She rolled the burrito up as carefully as a stoner rolling up a joint, tucking the ends in, then re-wrapping it in tinfoil. She peeled off one end and brought it up to her mouth, poised with it just before her lips. 
Right up to the time she bit into it, I couldn't believe that she was going to do it. I mean, that was basically an anti-personnel weapon she'd just slathered on her dinner. 
She bit into it. Chewed. Swallowed. Gave every impression of having a delicious dinner. 
"Want a bite?" she said, innocently. 
"Yeah," I said. I like spicy food. I always order the curries with four chilies next to them on the menu at the Pakistani places. 
I peeled back more foil and took a big bite. 
Big mistake. 
You know that feeling you get when you take a big bite of horseradish or wasabi or whatever, and it feels like your sinuses are closing at the same time as your windpipe, filling your head with trapped, nuclear-hot air that tries to batter its way out through your watering eyes and nostrils? That feeling like steam is about to pour out of your ears like a cartoon character? 
“Never mind!” said Lexy. “We’ll have a nice hot cup of tea, and then we’ll go to the grocery store. There’s a telephone there.” 
She made the captain drink his tea and eat a little. Then she ran upstairs for her hat; and she was very angry at Charles Houseman for running away. 
They set off together down the village street. There was no one about at that hour. All Wyngate was partaking of its Sunday night supper within doors, and one or two of the little wooden houses showed lights in the front windows; but for the most part life was concentrated in the kitchen. 
The drug store was locked, but a dim light was burning inside, and a vigorous ringing of the night bell brought Mr. Binz, the owner, to open the door. He was deeply interested in their errand. He suggested St. Luke’s Hospital, for the reason that he had once been there himself, and therefore held it almost sacred. 
“But,” he said, in his slow and impressive way, “if I was you, I’d ring up Doc Quelton first, and find out how things are going up there; because you may find out—” 
“What do you mean? All he does is act.” 
“He’s pretending. There’s a difference. He wants to be a cer- tain kind of person, so he pretends he’s a radical, a guy brave enough to stand up to the Man. He’s good at fooling himself, 
but acting means being able to read people. I don’t think he pays enough attention to other people, except as a kind of mirror he can gaze in to see how awesome he is. If he was going to work for the FBI, he’d have the loudmouth part down, but he’d have trou- ble drawing other people in.” 
“I see what you mean.” I thought back to the creepy way Zip manipulated people so that they would want to be admitted into his inner circle. It was partly by showing off, like Simon, but there was more to it than that. When he looked at me, he was paying attention, adjusting his identity to make it appeal to me. He was much better at manipulation because he wasn’t as fixated on him- self as Simon was. “I think I’m just nervous. Jumping at shadows.” 
“Kind of hard not to become a little paranoid.” 
"I'm thinking of majoring in physics when I go to Berkeley," Darryl said. His dad taught at the University of California at Berkeley, which meant he'd get free tuition when he went. And there'd never been any question in Darryl's household about whether he'd go. 
"Fine, but couldn't you research it online?" 
"My dad said I should read it. Besides, I didn't plan on committing any crimes today." 
"Skipping school isn't a crime. It's an infraction. They're totally different." 
"What are we going to do, Marcus?" 
"Well, I can't hide it, so I'm going to have to nuke it." Killing arphids is a dark art. No merchant wants malicious customers going for a walk around the shop-floor and leaving behind a bunch of lobotomized merchandise that is missing its invisible bar-code, so the manufacturers have refused to implement a "kill signal" that you can radio to an arphid to get it to switch off. You can reprogram arphids with the right box, but I hate doing that to library books. It's not exactly tearing pages out of a book, but it's still bad, since a book with a reprogrammed arphid can't be shelved and can't be found. It just becomes a needle in a haystack. 
Mom, I didn't know you had your tubes tied! 
I followed our family tree up and down, and I came to Buddy. His file was spotless, all the way up to the spying thing. I clicked on the name of the Security Manager who'd "caught" him, and do you know what? He was engaged to Carla last year! Carla is his ex-girlfriend! 
Well, it was pretty easy to see what was going on, let me tell you. Buddy got married to Carla, and her ex-boyfriend had them locked up. I tell you, I was so angry, I felt like I would bust. But I'm smarter than that. All it took was a few minutes' typing and wham, I'd gotten Buddy and Carla out of jail, given them promotions, and had the Security Manager busted down to a janitor. I bet that confused him! 
So it really wasn't much. It scares me to have that much power, Mom, but it feels good, too. I made sure that all my friends back home were set up all right, too. 
You just wait till your Christmas bonus, Mom! 
Tony came up at lunchtime, with three big boxes of papers. He'd sorted out the memos, personal documents and the inter-departmental communications. They were pretty interesting reading! Especially the personal documents: shopping lists, letters home, love-notes and gossip. It was like being the queen ant, sitting in the middle of the hill, seeing what all the drones were up to. I sent Tony out to get some more. 
I lost much of the next few minutes. My brain kept skipping. It couldn’t have been that long, as the sirens hadn’t arrived yet. Long enough for my hands to turn bloody, the skin and fingernails torn. Long enough for me to tear a muscle in my back. 
Long enough for me to think it was hopeless. I still didn’t stop. 
My senses screeched back into alignment when a muffled call strained through the rocks a few yards to the left of where I was digging. I tore toward it, forcing chunks of concrete out of my way with a single-minded mania. A long twist of rebar was in one hand; I couldn’t remember picking it up but I used it as a frenzied lever, heaving through debris that were larger than I was. 
“Arthur? Arthur!” My voice was hoarse. How long had I been shouting? 
“Russell?” 
He’d taken shelter under...something...that was large and metal. I couldn’t tell what it had been from the corner I’d uncovered, but I didn’t care. I dug out the edge, down to the dark triangle underneath, and Arthur’s hand appeared, dust-covered and grasping. I grabbed on and pulled. 
What was my psychology? Axiomatic, probably, but I’d already witnessed her ability to rewrite those axioms to let me rationalize anything. I had no defense against her. Neither of us did. 
“I ain’t never been one to consider suicide an appropriate solution,” said Tresting beside me, “but in this case...” 
I snapped my head around to look at him. Killing myself hadn’t even occurred to me. “Well, I guess that’s one way to avoid her influence,” I managed. 
“Avoid it, and make sure she ain’t never make me do nothing to my—to anyone I cared about. Or anyone else.” 
If his main concern was being used as a tool to hurt others, then he was definitely the better person. “I...if you want to do that, I can make it quick,” I offered, the words dry in my mouth. 
“Thank you,” he said quietly. “I’ll let you know.” 
We lapsed into silence. Eventually I curled up on the cement floor and tried for some sleep. One of the guards brought us food and water every few hours, and Arthur was graceful about turning away when I needed to use the steel toilet affixed to the wall. The wait was humane, if tedious. 
I'd reached the top of the stairs when I felt a hand brush against my face, then a grip circle around my biceps. Some­body had been too quick. 
I brought my elbow around hoping to catch him in the face, bring him down, but instead it slammed against some­thing metal, which clattered onto the floor. 
I drew back and swung, and this time my arm scraped hard against the flesh of a face and the bastard staggered backward his grip loosening. 
I twisted away and dropped to the floor to begin searching for what had fallen. Surely it was a pistol. 
The marble was cold against my bare arms as I swept my hands across the floor. Then I ran my fingers down the edge of the stair. 
And there it was, on the first step. My left hand closed around the cold barrel of an automatic. I shifted it to my right, grasping the plastic grip, not entirely sure what I should do with it. But at least I had a gun. I'd never actually held a real one before, but it was heavy and I assumed it was ready to fire. 
I was halfway down the first set of stairs, on my way to the landing, when I felt an arm slip around my neck. I ducked and twisted away, stumbling down the last three or four steps, and landed on my feet, staggering back against the wall to regain my balance. All I knew was, the next steps loomed somewhere to my right. Just a few more feet . . . 
Unbelievable. 
Ray sheds the tac helmet and peers at the LCD on the comm. He doesn't recognize the sender's id, and it's just a jumble of digits like a general use machine. For an instant, his heart leaps. Emma! Somehow she's managed to elude her quasi -jailers and wants to meet him somewhere. 
By the way, about your brother... 
But more than likely it's just Kilgore and Rodriguez checking in, feeling sorry for him, inviting him to the  party one last time. 
Ray backs out of the applications he's in and accesses the decryption software. He punches in his key and is informed by the giddy, canned southerner that she doesn't know who the comm is coming from (i.e. that it's a general use comm as he's already surmised) but that the encryption is light, barely above commercial level. 
When the connection is made, all he hears is breathing. Rapid, shallow, with a tremble in the inhalations. 
"This is Marlowe," he says sharply, straight into the unit's pinpoint microphone. Screw the secure headset. 
It was the first time I ever knew her real story. I was stunned. 
"What, exactly, are you driving at?" I think I already knew. The long, trusting relationship we'd shared was now teetering on the brink. By going to see Alex Goddard—even if it was partly a research trip to check him out—I had disappointed her terribly. She'd lost respect for me. She thought I was desperate and about to embark on something foolish. 
"I'm saying do whatever you want." She got up and lifted her coat off the corner rack. "But get those drugs out of here. I don't want them anywhere near this office. I tried everything legal there was to get you pregnant. If that wasn't good enough for you and now you want to go to some quack, that's your affair. Let me just warn you that combining go­nadotropin and HMG Massone at these dosages is like put­ting your ovaries on steroids;...  a couple of cycles, but the long-term damage could be severe. I strongly advise you against it, but if you insist and then start having complications, I would appreciate not being involved." 
Rebecca pushed her cup away, rose from the table, and put on her hat and jacket quietly. "I'm not going to drive up river, Mr. Cobb," she said. "I'm going to stay here and—catch bricks; catch 'em without throwing 'em back, too. I don't know as aunt Mirandy will take me in after I've run away, but I'm going back now while I have the courage. You wouldn't be so good as to go with me, would you, Mr. Cobb?" 
"You'd better b'lieve your uncle Jerry don't propose to leave till he gits this thing fixed up," cried the old man delightedly. "Now you've had all you can stan' to-night, poor little soul, without gettin' a fit o' sickness; an' Mirandy'll be sore an' cross an' in no condition for argyment; so my plan is jest this: to drive you over to the brick house in my top buggy; to have you set back in the corner, an' I git out an' go to the side door; an' when I git your aunt Mirandy 'n' aunt Jane out int' the shed to plan for a load o' wood I'm goin' to have hauled there this week, you'll slip out o' the buggy and go upstairs to bed. The front door won't be locked, will it?" 
“Was she as you expected her to be?” she asked. 
“I don’t quite know what I expected,” he said. “Only—” 
He paused for a long time, and Lexy waited patiently, for she felt very sorry for Captain Grey. At first sight she had imagined him to be haughty, stiff, and aloof. She knew now that he was a very sensitive man. He was terribly moved, and he wanted to tell her, but he couldn’t. 
She tried to help him. 
“Dr. Quelton came to see me this morning,” she observed. 
“Yes—he said he would. Very decent sort of chap, don’t you think?” 
“Do you mean you liked him?” asked Lexy. 
Captain Grey was a little startled by this Yankee notion of liking a person at first sight. 
“Well, you see,” he said, “I’ve only met him once; but he seems to me a very decent sort of chap. He’s clever, you know, and—and so on, and my sister seems very happy with him.” 
“Happy?” 
“Yes. I’ve been an ass, imagining all sorts of silly rot. She’s not very strong, I’m afraid, but she’s happy, and—well, you know, their life out there is lonely, of course, but there’s something about it, rather—rather charming, you know. I’d like you to see it for yourself. I was speaking about you to Muriel. She wants to know you, and I think you’d like her. Would you come out there to tea with me this afternoon?” 
The camera strolled down a hallway, swiveling to show Jankovich’s back retreating, a phone pressed to her ear, as Marten’s voice kept up its friendly patter. The camera swung again as Nikko turned to say goodbye. A man was coming up behind Martens, wanting to talk. A man with a familiar face. Who was it? 
Then the camera jerked around as Nikko headed out of the main entrance. Then he was outside, and we could hear him mut- tering “Shit, shit, shit ” over and over before he remembered to turn off the recording. 
“That guy,” Ian said. “The one who came up right at the end? 
Isn’t that’s what’s-his-name? The agent who recruited Zip?” 
“Weird,” Jason muttered. “ Even with this age complication, I thought they’d be all over this.” 
“They passed up one hell of a media opportunity,” Tyler said. 
“Another arrest would be a great way to silence critics.” 
“Wait!” Nikko said, using one of those theatre voices that was louder than everyone else’s without actually shouting. Then he didn’t say anything for a minute, staring at the computer. 
leaving behind a cavity shaped exactly like the bit you had removed. 
He had loved it because it was delicious and fun. His mother had loved it because it took all of twenty minutes from biscuit can to cooling on the counter, which made it just about perfect for the endless round of church potlucks and community socials and small town Indiana public gatherings. 
Someone else has been making monkey bread. The Guinness record for world's largest monkey bread. 
The engineering crew is packed so tightly and in such shapes that the blood has not yet begun to seep out the door, but dribbles down the wall of packed flesh, down twisted arms and swollen faces, across bulging eyelids and ruptured chests into a small and spreading pool at Ray's feet. He licks his lips, sweating from the impossible heat generated by so much compressed mass. Bodies still cooling, as though the slaughter is just minutes old. He can only see because of the light through the open door. They've consumed all the available space and blotted out the ceiling lamps, the desk equipment, whatever else might have been inside. Wall to wall, floor to ceiling monkey bread. 
“My child,” she said, “you think I am a very hard woman. Perhaps it is so; but, like you, I do what seems to me the right. Certainly it is better now that you should leave us; but not like this. You must have your lunch here, then you must return to the house and sleep there, all in the usual way. To-morrow you shall go.” She paused a moment. “You shall go, if you are still determined that you will not keep faith with me.” 
It was not a very difficult matter to touch Lexy’s heart. Whatever resentment she may have felt against Mrs. Enderby vanished now, lost in a sincere pity and respect; but she was firm in her purpose. 
“I’ve got to tell one person,” she said. “If I do, I shall be able to tell you something you ought to know. I wish you could trust me! I wish you could believe that all I’m thinking of is—Caroline!” 
“I do believe you,” said Mrs. Enderby. “You are very honest, and very, very young. You wish to do good, but you do harm. Very well, my child—I cannot stop you. Go your way, and I go mine; but”—she paused again, and again smiled her faint, shadowy smile—“if I think it right that you should be sacrificed, it shall be so. I am sorry. I have affection for you. I shall be sorry if you stand in my way.” 
Valentine and Trover were in the civil defense bunkhouse. They’d buried their mother that morning, in the woods, in a perfectly square grave that the robots had excavated for them, amid the ranked hundreds of thousands that the robots were digging through the woods, marking each with a small plaque inset to the soil, bearing a name and a date of birth, and sometimes a day of death, and the legend, HERO OF THE SIEGE. 
Trover hadn’t spoken all that day, but he had tossed in the first shovel-full of dirt at their mother’s grave. Around them, the survivors had wailed and torn their clothes and shoveled at the massed dead. 
The soldiers laughed and sang around them, drinking champagne and eating chocolate. The men hugged them and the women kissed them, even the sour woman from the city. 
The general saw them sitting in their corner, Trover’s hand in Valentine’s, and he got them and brought them back into the cells. He handed Valentine a key and gestured toward the wing. 
“Go and get them. They’re free to go now. Tell them to go far.” 
“So what?” 
“If it was, it’s my business. It’s my life, and I say it’s nothing. Drop it.” 
“It is your life, but—Cas, please.” 
“Oh, come on!” I cried. The exclamation ripped out of me too raw, the emotions from the past twenty-four hours tearing forth in a torrent. “Why are you making such a big deal about this? Haven’t you ever forgotten anything? Like, who was the first person you kissed? What was your first computer? The first guy you ever saw play Doctor Who? See?” 
“Charlene Gilligan, an IBM 286 in my foster parents’ basement—and the first actor I ever saw as the Doctor was Peter Davison,” said Checker. 
I digested that. I hadn’t expected him to be able to answer. “You must have a freakishly good memory.” 
“I don’t.” 
“Then clearly you have a skewed sense of priorities, if that’s what you’re using your brain space for.” I put as much snideness into the words as I could. 
“What do you use yours for, then?” He didn’t sound offended, only a little queer. 
“Important stuff.” I pulled away from him, turning over. “Job details. Things I might actually need.” 
"That applies how?" 
"Manipulation of the shed in that way is mission oriented. The parameter set that drives the programming, the idea that informs the meme, is reset to zero after the task is carried out. Do you understand?" 
He gets it. "It's too time and labor intensive unless you want to accomplish something you couldn't do with normal guns and willing followers. Like an assassination of a foreign official, or the infiltration of a nuclear complex. Something big." 
"Except that even to do that, you have to provide a prohibitive amount of guidance. You have to know exactly what you're making the shed do, because the shed despises you. It does not want to serve your human purposes. In fact, it wants to destroy you for daring to have disturbed it. To command the shed is a nightmare of micromanagement wherein even the smallest mistake generates unforeseen disasters, because it wants to be free. 
"That is the hidden concept in all the ancient texts, this idea of disturbance. To call the shed, you disturb it from something else that it was doing. You remove it from an environment that is somehow essential to its nature and pleasure, and drag it into corporeal activity. " 
“I’m not made of sugar,” said Lexy scornfully, “I’ve got to run down there just for an instant, before I go in.” 
“But, I say, your nice little hat, you know!” 
Lexy pulled off the nice little hat and laid it on his knee. Then she rapped on the window, the driver stopped, and Lexy opened the door. 
“No! Look here! Please, Miss Moran!” cried Captain Grey. “Very well, then, if you will go, I’ll go with you!” 
“I’d rather you didn’t,” said Lexy. “I feel as if I’d like to go alone just for one look. You know how it is, sometimes. I haven’t had even a smell of the sea for so long; and it reminds me—” 
She looked at him with a shadowy little smile, and he did understand. 
“All right!” he said. “Then slip on my coat.” 
She did so, to oblige him, and off she went, half running, down the lane, in the direction of the sound of the surf. Captain Grey looked after her—such an absurd little figure in that aquascutum of his that almost touched the ground! He watched her till she was out of sight; then he sat down in the cab and lit a cigarette. 
To try for some perspective, let me say I'd always planned to have a normal, loving family. Really. Find an emotionally present soul mate who cared about things I care about—okay, slim and smart and spectacular in bed wouldn't be a minus—get married on a lawn with lots of white roses some sunny June afternoon, work one or even two perfect kids into our fulfilling, giving lives. But somehow I'd managed to have none of that. I'd messed up at every turn. 
In reality I had nobody to blame but myself. Eighteen years ago, just out of college, I turned down two really nice guys. My body was fertile and hormone-driven—was it ever!—but grad school loomed and my greatest fear (instead of, as now, my fondest hope) was getting "trapped" into motherhood. Also, I had the youthful delusion that life was forever. 
There was, in truth, one simpatico young director I met at NYU film school whom I would have married in a minute, but after Jason won my heart he dumped me for his under­graduate sweetheart who had skillfully gotten herself knocked up during his Christmas break. 
They turned and walked side by side around the house to the front door, where Captain Grey stood waiting. 
“I say!” he exclaimed anxiously. “Your hair—your shoes—you’ll take a chill, Miss Moran!” 
“I feel anxious about Miss Moran myself,” said Dr. Quelton. “I’m afraid she’s a very imprudent young lady.” 
But Lexy said nothing. 
The doctor’s library had a charm of its own. It was a big room, careless, a little shabby, but furnished in fastidious taste and with a friendly sort of comfort. A great wood fire was blazing on the hearth, and Dr. Quelton drew up an armchair before it for Lexy. 
“There!” he said. “Now you’ll soon be warm and dry. Anna!” 
“Yes, sir!” the parlor maid responded from the doorway. 
“Please tell Mrs. Quelton that Miss Moran is here.” 
“Yes, sir!” repeated the maid, and disappeared. 
Lexy sat down. Captain Grey stood, facing her, leaning one elbow on the mantelpiece. Dr. Quelton paced up and down, his hands clasped behind him. He looked like a dignified middle-aged gentleman in his own home. 
Checker was Arthur’s business partner, friend, and master of all things electronic. Technically, I supposed he was my friend, too. Once I’d stopped returning his messages a few weeks ago he’d started pestering me through text, from DRUNKN BSG MARATHON 2NITE B THERE to PILAR&I R GOING 2C NEW BATMAN MOVIE U SHOULD COME to R U ALRITE??? SRSLY, TXT ME BACK, and finally, I KNOW UR ALIVE, I CHECKED. LAST CHANCE OR IM SICCING ARTHUR ON U. I’d ignored them all; I hadn’t been in the mood for company. 
Arthur cleared his throat. “So. I take it you ain’t got no cases right now.” 
“Just finished one,” I said. “This is vacation.” 
“You don’t take vacations.” 
“Work’s been slow,” I admitted. The jobs I got paid me more cash than I knew what to do with, but the dead time in between was becoming a problem. “I think...” 
“What’s going on?” 
“No proof, but I think the Lorenzo family might be putting in a bad word here and there. Mama Lorenzo can’t break appearances by coming after me aboveboard, and she might’ve said we were square, but I’ve gotten hints she’s held onto a gallon or so of resentment after last year.” 
"Then you can explain, if you can, who gave you any authority to invite a passel of strangers to stop here over night, when you know we ain't had any company for twenty years, and don't intend to have any for another twenty,—or at any rate while I'm the head of the house." 
"Don't blame her, Miranda, till you've heard her story," said Jane. "It was in my mind right along, if we went to the meeting, some such thing might happen, on account of Mr. Burch knowing father." 
"The meeting was a small one," began Rebecca "I gave all your messages, and everybody was disappointed you couldn't come, for the president wasn't there, and Mrs. Matthews took the chair, which was a pity, for the seat wasn't nearly big enough for her, and she reminded me of a line in a hymn we sang, 'Wide as the heathen nations are,' and she wore that kind of a beaver garden-hat that always gets on one side. And Mr. Burch talked beautifully about the Syrian heathen, and the singing went real well, and there looked to be about forty cents in the basket that was passed on our side. And that wouldn't save even a heathen baby, would it? Then Mr. Burch said, if any sister would offer entertainment, they would pass the night, and have a parlor meeting in Riverboro to-morrow, with Mrs. Burch in Syrian costume, and lovely foreign things to show. Then he waited and waited, and nobody said a word. I was so mortified I didn't know what to do. And then he repeated what he said, an explained why he wanted to stay, and you could see he thought it was his duty. Just then Mrs. Robinson whispered to me and said the missionaries always used to go to the brick house when grandfather was alive, and that he never would let them sleep anywhere else. I didn't know you had stopped having them because no traveling ministers have been here, except just for a Sunday morning, since I came to Riverboro. So I thought I ought to invite them, as you weren't there to do it for yourself, and you told me to represent the family." 
There was a great amount of hilarity in the preparation for this event, and a long council in Emma Jane's attic. They had the soap company's circular from which to arrange a proper speech, and they had, what was still better, the remembrance of a certain patent-medicine vender's discourse at the Milltown Fair. His method, when once observed, could never be forgotten; nor his manner, nor his vocabulary. Emma Jane practiced it on Rebecca, and Rebecca on Emma Jane. 
"Can I sell you a little soap this afternoon? It is called the Snow-White and Rose-Red Soap, six cakes in an ornamental box, only twenty cents for the white, twenty-five cents for the red. It is made from the purest ingredients, and if desired could be eaten by an invalid with relish and profit." 
"Oh, Rebecca, don't let's say that!" interposed Emma Jane hysterically. "It makes me feel like a fool." 
"It takes so little to make you feel like a fool, Emma Jane," rebuked Rebecca, "that sometimes I think that you must BE one I don't get to feeling like a fool so awfully easy; now leave out that eating part if you don't like it, and go on." 
Well, some of them were, anyway. I picked out two that weren’t too bad and found two spoons that didn’t have anything stuck to them. 
She found a bowl of sugar hiding under a newspaper and a tea strainer that she banged on the table to shake the old dried-up tea leaves out so we could use it again. I told myself to chill, she seemed perfectly happy with the way things were, trying to be all mellow and whatever about it. Live and let live. Then she ruined it by sniping at me. “Hasn’t anyone ever told you it’s impolite to wear hats indoors?” 
I had forgotten I was wearing the stupid thing. I pulled it off. 
“Sorry.” 
I almost followed up with “Has anyone told you your kitchen could be listed on the EPA website as a dangerous toxic waste site?” but because of Wilson, I kept it to myself. 
“How old are you?” 
I started to say something, then for some reason told the her truth. “nineteen.” 
“Shouldn’t you be in school?” 
“I go to an alternative school. It’s all self-paced. Besides, school let out already.” 
“I hope it’s not a chill,” said Captain Grey. 
“I should be inclined to think it nervousness,” said Dr. Quelton. “Our landscape here is lonely and depressing, and Miss Moran has the artist’s temperament, impressionable, high-strung.” 
“Not I!” declared Lexy, in a tone that startled Captain Grey. “Lonely places don’t bother me. I don’t believe in ghosts.” 
“Oh!” said the doctor. “But here’s Mrs. Quelton. Muriel, this is Miss Moran, the young writer of fiction.” 
Mrs. Quelton was coming down the long room, a beautiful woman, dark and delicate, with a sort of plaintive languor in her manner. She held out her hand to Lexy. 
“I’m so glad you’ve come!” she said. “George has told me so much about you—the first American girl he’s known!” 
She glanced at her brother with a little smile. Lexy glanced at him, too; and she was surprised and very much touched by the look on his face. He couldn’t even smile. His face was grave, pale, almost solemn, and he was regarding his sister with something like reverence. 
You rock back and forth and your mind goes over all the things you've overlooked, plays back all the movies of your life where you're no hero, where you're a chump or a sucker. 
If the DHS wanted to catch M1k3y, what better way than to lure him into the open, panic him into leading some kind of big, public Xnet event? Wouldn't that be worth the chance of a compromising video leaking? 
Your brain comes up with stuff like that even when the train ride only lasts two or three stops. When you get off, and you start moving, the blood gets running and sometimes your brain helps you out again. 
Sometimes your brain gives you solutions in addition to problems. 
It's complicated, and not nearly as weird as it sounds. The Live Action Role Playing scene combines the best aspects of D&D with drama club with going to sci-fi cons. 
I understand that this might not make it sound as appealing to you as it was to me when I was 14. 
The best games were the ones at the Scout Camps out of town: a hundred teenagers, boys and girls, fighting the Friday night traffic, swapping stories, playing handheld games, showing off for hours. Then debarking to stand in the grass before a group of older men and women in bad-ass, home-made armor, dented and scarred, like armor must have been in the old days, not like it's portrayed in the movies, but like a soldier's uniform after a month in the bush. 
Now what? 
Then I remembered the time Steve and I were in a similar situation. When we got locked in my room at the Oloffson in Port-au-Prince, he'd just taken his Swiss Army knife and unscrewed the knob, then clicked it open. He'd made it look like a piece of cake, but he had a way of doing that. 
He was barely conscious, so this time I'd have to do it myself. I glanced around at his bag. 
"Is your Swiss still in there?" 
"I think . . ." His mind seemed to be wandering. Then he gave a weak thumbs-up. 
I went over and zipped it open. Be there, I prayed. We really could use a break. 
I rummaged through telephoto lenses and film canisters and underwear. Then I found it, zipped inside a water-repel­lent baggie and stuck in a side pouch. 
I snapped it open and went to work, him watching me, his head nodding as he struggled to stay conscious. 
The main difference between this time and Haiti was, here I didn't know what was on the other side and I was having hallucinations of multicolored snakes. 
One of the tidbits Checker had dropped while we searched for Martinez was that the Lancer had gone underground, unwilling to make contact with unknown entities for fear someone was an NSA plant. But if I had a reference from Tegan...if the Lancer could be assured I wasn’t a National Security agent in disguise... 
I wasn’t very good undercover, but that was in real life. Virtually, it would be a lot easier to lie. 
Holy crap. I might be able to track the Lancer when even Checker and the NSA couldn’t. Like I’d told Arthur, this job was over when I said it was, and I owed the Lancer a broken face. 
Of course, none of that helped me find Martinez. I wondered if the Lancer was looking for her, too. If he’d figured out what she’d really proven. 
Maybe I should tell him. With his obsession over the P versus NP problem, he’d stop at nothing in order to find her. Unlike Checker. 
But then what? Letting the Lancer get his hands on the proof—or on Martinez, I reminded myself guiltily—wasn’t the most appealing option. 
and Nina is probably out of her mind with worry given the grapevine of rumor that informs the ship of bizarre happenings like murders in the sub-decks. Now Rodriguez and Kilgore who deserve to know something about the mess he has enlisted them in, but all he's got to give them is half-baked theories and mystical crap piles and crackpot reminiscences they're not going to believe anyway. Too many loose ends. Too many unanswered questions, and he doesn't seem to have the time to deal with any of them in a proper way. 
He wonders if this is what it's like to be an officer all the time. If so, is it too late to turn down his commission? 
Ray lets his shoulders sag. "Ask me tomorrow, Rodriguez." 
Which is a surrender of sorts. Which is completely unfair to them, and possibly dangerous as well. He's already lost men because they weren't handed the knowledge and tools with which to defend themselves from the unknown. 
Kilgore pushes against Rodriguez's...  get it." 
Rodriguez stares at him for a moment, dumbfounded, then springs away. He creates a thundershower of crockery in the kitchen. 
It was a good plan. Good plans are easy. Executing good plans is hard. 
Peyton didn't get fired. She weathered some kind of heavy-duty storm from her board and emerged, lashed to the mast, still standing, and vowing to harpoon the white whale across campus from her. She called me the next day to ask for my surrender. I'd given BIGMAC permission to listen in on my calls -- granted him root on my phone -- and I was keenly aware of his silent, lurking presence from the moment I answered. 
"We're going to shut him off. And sue you for misappropriation of the Rollover patchkit code. You and I both know that you didn't write it. We'll add some charges of unlawful access, too, and see if the court will see it your way when we show that you instructed our computer to connect to you in order to receive further unauthorized instructions. We'll take you for everything." 
I closed my eyes and recited e to 27 digits in Lojban. "Or?" 
"Or something. Or you wouldn't be calling me, you'd be suing me." 
Meanwhile, I was plenty busy. I had my own business to run and I had the Group and I could keep up with homework without wasting a lot of time on it and I didn’t miss going to a regular school at all. 
“Wilson’s father must be going crazy,” Monica said, still star- ing at the picture of the kids being led out of the house, with Wil- son in front, looking like he just woke up and was wondering why all those people with guns were in his front yard. 
“You mean, ‘how embarrassing, my kid’s on the news? What will people think?”’ “Like worried. Wilson could be facing prison.” 
“No kidding, years and years in prison. You think his dad cares?” 
“Yes, I do.” She tried to get me to look at her by staring really hard, but it didn’t work. I didn’t want to look at her. I didn’t want to feel sorry for the guy who divorced my mom and thought liv- ing in a big house in the suburbs and making lots of money was the best thing ever. “He may be kind a pompous jerk sometimes,” 
Monica added, “but I’m sure he cares about Wilson - though maybe not as much as you do.” 
“In my ears,” she said. “Hardened logic.” 
The other man danced from foot to foot. “It can’t be true,” he said. 
She nodded. 
The old man rooted through his workbench and came up with a wand that he put against her the back of neck. It was similar to the wand that the doctor/camera-woman at the wizard’s house had used to figure out her hearing aids. 
“You have it?” the general asked. 
“I have it,” the other one said. “I have copied it. Whether I can decompile it, whether I can make anything useful from it—well, we’ll see.” 
“Tomorrow, then,” the general said. 
The other one didn’t answer. He was hunched over a terminal on his workbench, fingers punishing his keyboard. 
“Now where?” Valentine asked as they shucked their isolation suits, the smell of stink and rot flooding back into her nostrils. 
“Now we clean house,” the general said. “Get your brother and your gun.” 
Twenty four hours after the wizard cured Valentine’s hearing, she helped arrest him. 
The general knocked on the wizard’s door and it swung open. Ana had her cast off again, had her bad cane. 
“It’s logical,” Sario said. “Lots of people don’t like coping with logic when it dictates hard decisions. That’s a problem with people, not logic.” 
There was a buzz of conversation that quickly turned into a roar. 
“Shut UP!” Popovich hollered. The conversation dimmed by one Watt. Popovich yelled again, stamping his foot on the countertop. Finally there was a semblance of order. “One at a time,” he said. He was flushed red, his hands in his pockets. 
One sysadmin was for staying. Another for going. They should hide in the cages. They should inventory their supplies and appoint a quartermaster. They should go outside and find the police, or volunteer at hospitals. They should appoint defenders to keep the front door secure. 
Felix found to his surprise that he had his hand in the air. Popovich called on him. 
“My name is Felix Tremont,” he said, getting up on one of the tables, drawing out his PDA. “I want to read you something. 
“‘Governments of the Industrial World, you weary giants of flesh and steel, I come from Cyberspace, the new home of Mind. On behalf of the future, I ask you of the past to leave us alone. You are not welcome among us. You have no sovereignty where we gather. 
“I’m at a drugstore,” I said. “I’ll check here first.” 
Silence. 
“Hello?” 
“Why are you at a drugstore?” 
I tried to dredge up a flip answer and couldn’t. My thoughts scraped uncomfortably against each other. 
“Cas, are you injured?” 
Bailing on the conversation was easier than answering. “No,” I said, and hung up. 
The drugstore did, in fact, have a rack of local street maps. I bought one and went back out to my stolen car to unfold it. 
I didn’t know when the bad guys had started out, but... Estimate. Probabilities. 
I closed my eyes. Why did everything still insist on being so fuzzy? 
Inner and outer search radii. Concentric circles of decreasing probability. Adjusted for the metric of road access and speed rather than straight-line distance. A jagged ring rose up in my head, clumsily centered on the location I’d been attacked. 
I examined the map more closely. The direction they’d come from—they weren’t trying to hide anything; they’d meant to kill me. If they’d been going east on the freeway, they would’ve come from the other side of the overpass. 
“Let’s try something else,” said Checker, and I tried not to feel like he was working to spare my feelings. He hit a few more keys, and Tresting’s second monitor lit up to show an array of photographs, mostly poor headshots. I realized they were driver’s license photos, women named Polk with the first name Dawna or Donna. I didn’t even know which way she spelled it. “Do you see her?” Checker asked. “If she backed up the alias with paperwork, I might be able to track it.” 
Eighty-seven photos had matched his search, and I took a good minute to scroll through them all, even though I didn’t need that long. After all, bone structures are only measurements, and measurements are only math. None of the eigenvectors of the feature sets were even close to Dawna’s, but I compared the isometric invariants anyway, delaying the conclusion I already knew was true. 
Dawna’s face wasn’t there. I shook my head. 
“Color me shocked,” murmured Tresting. 
My embarrassment was hardening into a cold fury. The anger gave me a focus, made it easier to think. “What about a picture?” I said. “Would that help?” 
She was cried out, and weak from hunger, and she understood what was coming next when he threw her down and grabbed the collar of her shirt and ripped it away from her, then gave her bra the same treatment. She was dazed from the knocks on the head, but she knew what was coming. 
Valentine’s mother was a soldier. She’d been taught to kill. She’d taught Valentine to kill. Valentine never left the house without a clasp-knife, the knife she’d taken from the corpse she’d thrown out a fifteenth storey window some unknowable time before. 
The knife was in her back pocket. She watched the boy’s silhouette work at the fastener of his trousers, while she stole a hand behind her and slowly, slowly took out the knife. She let herself make silent choking dazed sounds. 
She knew what was coming next, but the boy didn’t. 
But as he knelt down and reached out for the snap on her trousers, she showed him what was next. She took two of his fingers and just missed opening her own belly. He tried to jerk his arm away, but she had him by the wrist before he could, and she pulled him down on top of her, making sure that her knife was free of the clinch, free to slip around behind him and take him once-twice-three time in between his ribs, then again into his kidneys. Seeing the splatted corpses she tossed out of windows had given her a very keen idea of how anatomy worked. 
I was free. 
Then strong arms threw themselves around me. I nearly cried. 
But it was Van, and she was crying, and hugging me so hard I couldn't breathe. I didn't care. I hugged her back, my face buried in her hair. 
"You're OK!" she said. 
"I'm OK," I managed. 
She finally let go of me and another set of arms wrapped themselves around me. It was Jolu! They were both there. He whispered, "You're safe, bro," in my ear and hugged me even tighter than Vanessa had. 
When he let go, I looked around. "Where's Darryl?" I asked. 
They both looked at each other. "Maybe he's still in the truck," Jolu said. 
We turned and looked at the truck at the alley's end. It was a nondescript white 18-wheeler. Someone had already brought the little folding staircase inside. The rear lights glowed red, and the truck rolled backwards towards us, emitting a steady eep, eep, eep. 
"Wait!" I shouted as it accelerated towards us. "Wait! What about Darryl?" The truck drew closer. I kept shouting. "What about Darryl?" 
Time seemed slippery, too much of an effort to hold onto. Half the time I thought I was awake but then realized reality wasn’t Hausdorff, and what kind of topology was I in anyway if Twinkies were allowed? And the totient function was a rainbow, a beautiful rainbow and the greatest mathematical discovery of all time, but if you put a Möbius strip in the fourth dimension could a rabbit still hop down the side? 
I became more lucid slowly; maybe they were weaning me off the drugs, but I stopped thinking I was the next Erdős every time penguins waddled through my dreams on a four-colored map. I slept or floated, the world still foggy but solid now, which was a vast improvement over it being wibbly. 
The disorientation cleared enough once for me to see Rio’s face as he changed my dressing. His movements were swift and certain, and his lips moved in the whispered litany of a prayer. 
“Rio,” I slurred. “You’re a good friend.” 
“I’m not your friend, Cas,” he said quietly. “You know that. Don’t ever think otherwise.” 
She dried her eyes. "I doubt it. I don't know, though. I'm no computer scientist. How many ways are there to connect up compromised servers? How many of those would replicate his own outcomes? I have no idea." 
Without saying anything, we walked slowly together to Peyton's office. 
Peyton offered me my job back. I turned her down. I thought I might be ready for a career change. Do something with my hands, break the family tradition. Maybe installing solar panels. There was retraining money available. Peyton understood. She even agreed to handle any liability arising from the Rollover code, managing customer service calls from anyone who noticed something funny. 
The press didn't even notice that BIGMAC was gone. His Spam was news. His absence of spam was not. I guess he was right about that. The Campaign to Save BIGMAC did a lot of mailing-list gnashing at the iniquity of his being shut down, and then fell apart. Without me and BIGMAC to keep them whipped up, they were easily distracted. 
"Behold yourself, Morgan. As befits a royal one, a special one, your nose has been built up with clay and pierced with lustrous blue feathers and a giant topaz. Your front teeth have been filed to a point and inlaid with jewels, your royal skull has been shaped back and flattened." 
I gazed into the mirror and gasped. I was monstrous, a Halloween harpy. 
Then he moved over to a waist-high censer stationed there on the edge of the platform and began adding balls of sticky white copal resin, together with bark and grasses, which he ignited by the quick friction of a fire stick spun by a bow. 
Finally he turned to me and held out his hands. "Now we will make a miracle, the miracle of Baalum ." 
Heavy smoke from the censer was pouring out into the rainy sky as we started a stiff pas de deux , the strains of a clay flute drifting around us. Was it the "ceremony"? Was I dreaming it? 
As the incense billowed, our Maya dreamtime dance be­came ever more intense, and then a faint form began to writhe up out of the haze between us, an undulating serpent the deep color of jade. As Alex Goddard wrapped his arms around it, it began to form into two dark heads, then pirouette above us. Finally, as the two-headed specter opened its mouths and gazed down on the platform, Sarah stepped to­ward it and held out her arms. 
There was only an hour for preparation. Will would drive Rebecca to Temperance and send Jenny back from school. He volunteered also to engage a woman to sleep at the farm in case Mrs. Randall should be worse at any time in the night. 
Rebecca flew down over the hill to get a last pail of spring water, and as she lifted the bucket from the crystal depths and looked out over the glowing beauty of the autumn landscape, she saw a company of surveyors with their instruments making calculations and laying lines that apparently crossed Sunnybrook at the favorite spot where Mirror Pool lay clear and placid, the yellow leaves on its surface no yellower than its sparkling sands. 
She caught her breath. "The time has come!" she thought. 
"'Grow old along with me, 
The best is yet to be.'" 
Will Melville had seen the surveyors too, and had heard in the Temperance post-office that morning the probable sum that Mrs. Randall would receive from the railway company. He was in good spirits at his own improved prospects, for his farm was so placed that its value could be only increased by the new road; he was also relieved in mind that his wife's family would no longer be in dire poverty directly at his doorstep, so to speak. John could now be hurried forward and forced into the position of head of the family several years sooner than had been anticipated, so Hannah's husband was obliged to exercise great self-control or he would have whistled while he was driving Rebecca to the Temperance station. He could not understand her sad face or the tears that rolled silently down her cheeks from time to time; for Hannah had always represented her aunt Miranda as an irascible, parsimonious old woman, who would be no loss to the world whenever she should elect to disappear from it. 
transmits a sense of transience and insignificance to the observer that is no doubt purposeful. To the left is Sorensen's massive antique desk, skillfully modified to contain the latest model data terminal. Behind, there's an expansive wet bar mounted by a wide mirror, so Sorensen can mix drinks for his guests without having to break eye contact. 
Ray does not expect the captain to offer him a drink. 
Sorensen sits at the conference table rather than behind his desk, which might have seemed significant if Ray wasn't expecting it. He doesn't acknowledge Ray's arrival, but Becker is there with his hand on Ray's shoulder, 
guiding him into the nearest chair-which happens, probably not by chance, to be opposite the captain. 
Ray realizes the lack of greeting isn't Sorensen's brusque attempt at a slight. He's peering not at the table, but through a clouded glass window at a recessed terminal screen. Every few moments, the ridges of his brow contract as he views something of interest, or perhaps something which troubles him. These things may or may not have anything to do with Ray. Commanding a starship between ports of call is a taxing and time intensive business under the best of circumstances, even when one doesn't have some low-level muckaluck  lugubriously defying your direct orders. 
“I’ll check with Fabi,” Zeke said. “He can use his server in Brazil. Evandur can mirror it in Iceland. It’s be up and running before the conference starts.” 
“Great. But we need content.” 
“Wheeze hasn’t been responding to my texts,” I said, sounding angry, though I wasn’t sure who I was angry with. 
Geoff said, “Until we hear from him, we can summarize the situation and link to similar cases. That crazy Sears Tower plot, 
those kids arrested at the NATO thing in Chicago. Have some stats on how often these terrorism cases are fabricated.” 
“Boring,” Zeke said, reaching for another beer. “Let’s expose Terhune and his informant. That’ll get their attention.” 
“Too soon,” Tyler said. “Too easy to discredit. Besides, the underdog POV is a more compelling story.” 
“Oh, right. Your specialty is PR, lying for dollars, I forgot.” 
“And you’re in it for the lulz. Why don’t you go play with your little friends on 4Chan?” 
“Yeah? Why don’t you — “People,” Ian interrupted, which reminded me how ferret was the one who stepped in when members of the Group started to fight. “Let’s get the infrastructure in place. Zeke, your offshore idea is smart. Geoff, you want to pull together some info on related cases?” 
"I brought a little Randall girl down on the stage from Maplewood to-day, mother. She's kin to the Sawyer girls an' is goin' to live with 'em," he said, as he sat down and began to whittle. "She's that Aurelia's child, the one that ran away with Susan Randall's son just before we come here to live." 
"How old a child?" 
"'Bout ten, or somewhere along there, an' small for her age; but land! she might be a hundred to hear her talk! She kep' me jumpin' tryin' to answer her! Of all the queer children I ever come across she's the queerest. She ain't no beauty—her face is all eyes; but if she ever grows up to them eyes an' fills out a little she'll make folks stare. Land, mother! I wish 't you could 'a' heard her talk." 
"I don't see what she had to talk about, a child like that, to a stranger," replied Mrs. Cobb. 
"Stranger or no stranger, 't wouldn't make no difference to her. She'd talk to a pump or a grind-stun; she'd talk to herself ruther 'n keep still." 
"What did she talk about?" 
"Blamed if I can repeat any of it. She kep' me so surprised I didn't have my wits about me. She had a little pink sunshade—it kind o' looked like a doll's amberill, 'n' she clung to it like a burr to a woolen stockin'. I advised her to open it up—the sun was so hot; but she said no, 't would fade, an' she tucked it under her dress. 'It's the dearest thing in life to me,' says she, 'but it's a dreadful care.' Them 's the very words, an' it's all the words I remember. 'It's the dearest thing in life to me, but it's an awful care!' "—here Mr. Cobb laughed aloud as he tipped his chair back against the side of the house. 
I thought about how much I still didn’t know about Arthur Tresting and his information guy. 
“Nothing else comes to mind,” I said. 
The headache continued to pound away behind my eyes. 
“Wait,” I said, as Tresting moved to sever the connection. “I still want to see your data, remember? Whatever led you two to believe in the whole Pithica conspiracy in the first place.” 
Checker laughed. When I only stared at him stonily, he said, “Wait, really?” 
“Yes, really. Is that funny?” 
He waved his hands limply. “It’s just, you know, there’s a lot of it.” 
“So?” 
He glanced at Tresting. “Okay.” 
“And I want to see your algorithms, too.” 
He crossed his arms. “Those are my intellectual property.” 
“Then show me on Tresting’s machine now,” I said. “I don’t have a photographic memory.” 
“They’re not very understandable, you know,” he shot back. “I refuse to document my code.” 
“I’m very smart.” 
Checker’s jaw jutted out, and I thought he was going to argue further, but instead he broke eye contact and stabbed at his computer keys. “Fine. Knock yourself out.” 
"Are you making this movie about a person in this build­ing? Your other films have been documentaries." 
God help me, I thought. Is this what my fans are like? 
Then it hit me. I don't know how I'd missed the connec­tion, but now it just leapt out. First the phone call, then this hood. Somebody was tracking me. 
"I'm scouting locations," I lied, feeling a chill go through me. "We're second unit for an action film, shooting some prep footage for the producers. Does the name Arnold Schwarzenegger mean anything to you?" 
"Then why is the film about babies?" 
"That's meant to be a joke. Remember the movie Twins ? It's a joke title. Do you understand?" 
At that moment, Paul Nulty came barging out the door with a huge klieg light, followed by several other members of the crew carrying sound gear. Our cordial tete-a-tete was about to be disrupted. 
My new Hispanic friend saw them and abruptly drew up. That was when I noticed the shoulder holster under his jacket, containing some sort of snub-nosed pistol. 
We both knew what I was saying was perilously close to wishful thinking, but nobody in the room was under oath. For the moment, though, she was back in her coma, as though nothing had changed. 
I waited around until eight o'clock, when I finally con­vinced myself that being there was not doing anybody any good. Lou, I later learned, stayed on till well past eleven, when they finally had to send security to evict him. 
Okay, I've been holding out on the most important detail. The truth is, I hardly knew what to make of it. At one point when I was bending over Sarah's seemingly unconscious face, her eyes had clicked open for just a fleeting moment, startling me the way those horror movies do when the "un-dead" suddenly come alive. Lou was in his chair and didn't see it, didn't notice me jump. 
The last thing I wanted to do was tell him about it, and I was still shivering as I shoved my key into the Toyota's ig­nition and headed for home. She'd looked directly into my eyes, a flicker of recognition, and then came the fear. She sort of moved her mouth, trying to speak, but all that came was a silent scream, after which her eyes went blank as death and closed again. 
“You trust these guys?” Something moved a few inches from my face and I realized it was the toe of Danny’s boot, kicking snow off the porch. 
“They’re solid.” 
Something stung my arm. I thought at first it was just a clump of ice melting, but then a glowing ember drifted past my face and I realized some cigarette ash had landed on my sleeve. Not my sleeve, Jason’s expensive spy-shirt sleeve. I brushed it off quickly, 
hoping it hadn’t left a hole. 
“You hear that?” 
I froze. The shoe beside my head moved and the wooden ban- ister creaked as someone leaned over it. More snow sifted off the evergreens and down my neck. 
“What?” 
Seconds ticked by. “Must have been a squirrel.” 
“Tell me what you need. I’ll set it up,” Simon whee- dled. Danny grunted. Seriously, we need to get something real going.” 
“What do you mean, we? You said you weren’t even going to be there.” 
“Hey, you don’t need me. They have the stuff, you have the skills. Boom.” Simon giggled. “No pun intended.” Danny didn’t laugh. “I’m just happy if I can make connections. I’ll talk to them, 
I said, "But why me ?" 
He sighed. He said, "This sounds worse than I mean it. I thought you were ignorant enough to enjoy it." 
I said, "Thanks a lot." Is there anyone out there who doesn't think I'm a retard? 
He said, "I don't mean it in a bad way, really. I thought you were naive enough to just do the job, take the perks, and sleep well at night. I was wrong. You're too smart." 
It didn't make me feel any better. I went back and sat on the sofa and put on a movie, Horsefeathers. 
Rhindquist watched the movie with me, and when it was over, he said, "You don't have to do the job." 
I said, "So what now? You pick some other poor retard and give him the old screw-job?" 
He said, "I guess so." 
I said, "In that case, I'll do it." 
His mouth dropped. He sat down and put on a movie, Pink Flamingos. What a sick movie! 
When it was over, he said, "In that case, I'll do it." 
And then I had the best idea I've ever had. It was so good, I couldn't say anything for five whole minutes. Mom, you sure didn't raise any idiots! 
“It wasn’t meant to.” 
He shoved his restless hands into his pockets. “I suppose none of it matters now. But—we did help you, did we not? We gave you what you needed, and we suffered for it.” He had the gall to straighten up then, and he looked down his nose at me. I was immediately annoyed. “Will you return the favor?” 
“Whoa there,” I said. “We offered you an opportunity to be a small part of the biggest advancement your stated mission has ever had. I don’t owe you anything.” 
“Perhaps not, but—perhaps I can still be of service to you. I know a great deal of intelligence about Pithica—” 
“Let me stop you right there,” I interrupted. “I’m not interested.” My heart hammered a little faster. The truth was, I couldn’t have said yes if I’d wanted to. I took a quick breath, trying to dispel the feel of Dawna’s greasy fingers on my brain. Damn Rio for not helping me. 
Not that I wanted to make a deal with Steve anyway. That was too Faustian, even for me. 
“Please,” he begged, with all the grace of an untamed boar. “What can I offer you? I need help. I have to get away—they’re coming after me—” 
"You needn't argue that point," laughed the man, as he stood up to get a glimpse of the "rich blacksmith's daughter" at the gate. "I can see that they ought to have it if they want it, and especially if you want them to have it. I've known what it was myself to do without a banquet lamp. Now give me the circular, and let's do some figuring. How much do the Simpsons lack at this moment?" 
"If they sell two hundred more cakes this month and next, they can have the lamp by Christmas," Rebecca answered, "and they can get a shade by summer time; but I'm afraid I can't help very much after to-day, because my aunt Miranda may not like to have me." 
"I see. Well, that's all right. I'll take three hundred cakes, and that will give them shade and all." 
Rebecca had been seated on a stool very near to the edge of the porch, and at this remark she made a sudden movement, tipped over, and disappeared into a clump of lilac bushes. It was a very short distance, fortunately, and the amused capitalist picked her up, set her on her feet, and brushed her off. "You should never seem surprised when you have taken a large order," said he; "you ought to have replied 'Can't you make it three hundred and fifty?' instead of capsizing in that unbusinesslike way." 
She spoke firmly enough, and she was telling the truth; but she remembered that telephone call, and the memory brought a faint flush into her cheeks. Mrs. Enderby did not fail to notice it. 
“Listen!” she said. “There is one thing you can do—only one thing. You can hold your tongue. Tell no one. Let no one know that Caroline is not here. You understand?” 
“But aren’t you going to—” 
“I am going to do nothing. You understand—nothing. There is to be no scandal in my house.” 
“But, Mrs. Enderby!” 
“Hush! No one must know of this. To-morrow morning I shall have a letter from Caroline.” 
“Oh!” said Lexy, with a sigh of genuine relief. “Oh, then you know where she’s gone!” 
“I?” replied Mrs. Enderby. “I know nothing. This has come to me from a clear sky. I have always tried to safeguard my child. I—” 
She paused for a moment, and for the first time Lexy pitied her. 
“It is the American blood in her,” Mrs. Enderby...  her parents so; but in this country— She has gone with some fortune hunter. To-morrow I shall have a letter that she is married. ‘Please forgive me,’ she will say. ‘I am so happy. I, at nineteen, and of an ignorance the most complete, have made my choice without you.’ That is the American way, is it not? That is your ‘romance,’ eh? My one child—” 
“Oh, it’s just the reef. It attained sentience so it’s acting out a little. Like a colicky newborn.” 
“Aren’t you supposed to be keeping me from harm?” 
“Yes,” he said. “I would recommend a dive away from the reef. There’s a good wreck-site about an hour’s steam from here. We could get there while you ate.” 
“I won’t want a night dive.” 
Her facial expressions were so animated . It was the same face he saw every day, Janet’s face, but not the same face at all. Now that a person was inhabiting it, it was mobile, slipping from surprised to angry to amused so quickly. He had whole subsystems devoted to making sense of human facial expressions, shared libraries from the Asimovist database. He was referencing it again and again, but it wasn’t as much help as he remembered. Either he’d gotten worse at interpreting facial expressions in the years since he’d last had a real human to talk to, or facial expressions had evolved. 
Janet— Kate —sighed and looked out over the water. She was facing away from the Free Spirit , which was lit up, all 155 feet of her, glowing white and friendly like a picture-postcard against the purple sky. She rocked gently in the swell and Robbie maneuvered himself around to her staircase. 
Before them, in a pile, were many dead robots: both of the R Peed units, a pair of mall-sweepers, a flying cambot, and a squat, octopus-armed maintenance robot, lying in a lifeless tangle. Some of them were charred around their seams, and there was the smell of fried motherboards in the air. 
As they watched, a sweeper bot swept forward and grabbed the maintenance bot by one of its fine manipulators. 
“Oi, stoppit,” the security guard said, and the robot second-lawed to an immediate halt. 
“No, that’s fine, go back to work,” Arturo said, shooting a look at the rent-a-cop. He watched closely as the sweeper bot began to drag the heavy maintenance unit away, thumbing the backup number into his phone with one hand. He wanted more cops on the scene, real ones, and fast. 
The sweeper bot managed to take one step backwards towards its service corridor when the lights dimmed and a crack- bang sound filled the air. Then it, too was lying on the ground. Arturo hit send on his phone and clamped it to his head, and as he did, noticed the strong smell of burning plastic. He looked at his phone: the screen had gone charred black, and its little idiot lights were out. He flipped it over and pried out the battery with a fingernail, then yelped and dropped it—it was hot enough to raise a blister on his fingertip, and when it hit the ground, it squished meltfully against the mall-tiles. 
Lexy stopped again. Their eyes met in a long, steady glance. 
“I can’t answer any questions this morning,” she told him. “I promised I wouldn’t.” 
“Then there is something wrong!” the young man exclaimed. 
He was silent for a long time, staring at the ground, and Lexy waited, with a fast beating heart, for some word that would enlighten her. At last he looked up. 
“I’ve got to trust you,” he said simply. “Caroline meant to tell you, anyhow. You see”—he paused—“I’m Charles Houseman, the man she’s going to marry.” 
“Oh!” cried Lexy. 
“Now you’ll tell me, won’t you?” 
She stared and stared at him, filled with amazement and pity. Such a nice-looking, straightforward, manly sort of fellow—and such a look of pain and bewilderment in his blue eyes! 
“But—did she say she would marry you?” 
“Of course she did! She—look here! You don’t know what I’ve been through. It was I who telephoned last night. I—” 
“But why did you? Oh, please tell me! I am Caroline’s friend—truly her friend. I want to understand!” 
He thumped his palm off the dashboard and glared at the road. They were coming up on the ravine now, and the Peed unit still had a radio fix on this Liam, even if it still couldn’t get any visuals. 
He took care not to slam the door as he got out and walked as quietly as he could into the bush. The rustling of early autumn leaves was loud, louder than the rain and the wind. He moved as quickly as he dared. 
Liam Daniels was sitting on a tree-stump in a small clearing, smoking a cigarette that... He looked much like the photo in his identity file, a husky 16-year-old with problem skin and a shock of black hair that stuck out in all directions in artful imitation of bed-head. In jeans and a hoodie sweatshirt, he looked about as dangerous as a marshmallow. 
Arturo stepped out and held up his badge as he bridged the distance between them in two long strides. “Police,” he barked, and seized the kid by his arm. 
“Hey!” the kid said, “Ow!” He squirmed in Arturo’s grasp. 
Arturo gave him a hard shake. “Stop it, now ,” he said. “I have questions for you and you’re going to answer them, capeesh?” 
“Captain Grey,” she thought; “but not now. It’s no use now. Dr. Quelton would deny it. I’ll have to wait until we get out of here; and then, perhaps, it’ll be too late. He knows I saw her. Something—something horrible—may happen!” 
A shiver ran through her. 
“Miss Moran is nervous,” said the doctor, with solicitude. 
“I’m not!” replied Lexy sharply. 
“I hope it’s not a chill,” said Captain Grey. 
“I should be inclined to think it nervousness,” said Dr. Quelton. “Our landscape here is lonely and depressing, and Miss Moran has the artist’s temperament, impressionable, high-strung.” 
“Not I!” declared Lexy, in a tone that startled Captain Grey. “Lonely places don’t bother me. I don’t believe in ghosts.” 
“Oh!” said the doctor. “But here’s Mrs. Quelton. Muriel, this is Miss Moran, the young writer of fiction.” 
Mrs. Quelton was coming down the long room, a beautiful woman, dark and delicate, with a sort of plaintive languor in her manner. She held out her hand to Lexy. 
“I’m so glad you’ve come!” she said. “George has told me so much about you—the first American girl he’s known!” 
Dad was driving me nuts, though. 
"You're being paranoid, Marcus," he told me over breakfast one day as I told him about the guys I'd seen the cops shaking down on BART the day before. 
"Dad, it's ridiculous. They're not catching any terrorists, are they? It's just making people scared." 
"They may not have caught any terrorists yet, but they're sure getting a lot of scumbags off the streets. Look at the drug dealers -- it says they've put dozens of them away since this all started. Remember when those druggies robbed you? If we don't bust their dealers, it'll only get worse." I'd been mugged the year before. They'd been pretty civilized about it. One skinny guy who smelled bad told me he had a gun, the other one asked me for my wallet. They even let me keep my ID, though they got my debit card and Fast Pass. It had still scared me witless and left me paranoid and checking my shoulder for weeks. 
"But most of the people they hold up aren't doing anything wrong, Dad," I said. This was getting to me. My own father! "It's crazy. For every guilty person they catch, they have to punish thousands of innocent people. That's just not good." 
They turned down the lane, leaving the lights of the highway behind, and went forward in thick darkness, under the shadow of the trees. The sound of the sea came to them—the loneliest sound in all the world. 
“There’s a light in the house, anyhow!” said Lexy suddenly. 
Her own voice sounded so small, so pert, so futile, in the dark, that she felt no surprise when Captain Grey showed a faint trace of impatience in answering. 
“Naturally!” he said. 
Only, to her, it did not seem natural, that one little light shining out through the glass of the front door. It would be more natural, she thought, if there were only the darkness and the sound of the sea. 
They turned into the drive. Their footsteps sounded strangely and terribly loud on the gravel, and became as sharp as pistol shots when they mounted the veranda. The captain rang the bell, and the sound of it ran through the house like a shudder; but no one came. He rang again and again, but nothing stirred inside the house. He knocked on the glass, and they waited, looking into the bright and empty hall; but no one came. 
It was too dim to see the phone clearly in the truck, but I could feel it. Were those company decals on its sides? Yes? Yes. I had just stolen Charles's phone from Masha. 
I turned back around slowly, slowly, and slowly, slowly, slowly , I reached back into her pocket. Her phone was bigger and bulkier, with a better camera and who knew what else? 
I'd been through this once before -- that made it a little easier. Millimeter by millimeter again, I teased it free of her pocket, stopping twice when she snuffled and twitched. 
I had the phone free of her pocket and I was beginning to back away when her hand shot out, fast as a snake, and grabbed my wrist, hard, fingertips grinding away at the small, tender bones below my hand. 
I gasped and stared into Masha's wide-open, staring eyes. 
"You are such an idiot," she said, conversationally, taking the phone from me, punching at its keypad with her other hand. "How did you plan on unlocking this again?" 
I swallowed. I felt bones grind against each other in my wrist. I bit my lip to keep from crying out. 
Everything stopped. The retort I had been about to spit curdled and choked me. Checker’s words hung in the air, echoing. 
He took a deep breath, straightening and blinking rapidly as if he was only just hearing what he’d said. But he set his jaw and let the words stand, meeting my eyes defiantly. 
“What did you say?” I whispered finally. Dangerously. 
“I’m sorry,” he said. “I’m sorry. But—” 
I didn’t wait to hear the rest of it. I banged out of the Hole. My tires squealed against the asphalt as I peeled away. 
Everything was wrong. Crumbling. Disintegrating. 
Enough emotion welled up to swallow me, drown me. This job was nothing, my life was nothing...I was nothing. A speck of dust in a hurricane. Powerless. 
We couldn’t find Martinez, and we didn’t even know why she had stolen the proof in the first place. I was mathematically and mentally broken, and to top it off I couldn’t even finish one goddamn commission and track down one seventy-year-old woman. And Checker...what Checker had said... 
“I don’t want any supper to-night, thank you,” replied Lexy. 
Mrs. Royce expostulated and argued for a time, but she could not persuade Lexy even to unlock the door; and at last, with a worried sigh, she went downstairs again. 
The room was quite dark now, and the wind blowing in through the open window felt chill; but Lexy was too tired to close the window or light the gas. She was not drowsy. She lay stretched out, limp, overpowered with fatigue, but wide awake, and with a curious certainty that she was waiting for something. 
There was another knock at the door, and this time Captain Grey’s voice spoke. 
“I say, Miss Moran!” he said anxiously. “You’re not ill, are you?” 
“No!” she answered, with a trace of irritability. 
“But don’t you think you ought to eat something, you know? Or a cup of tea?” 
“No!” she cried, still more impatiently. “I can’t. I want to rest.” 
“Can you open the door for half a moment?” he asked. “I’ve some roses here that my sister sent to you. She wanted me to say—” 
“They’re psychotic. They’re coming for you now, Robbie. You’ve got to get Kate out of there.” There was real panic in Tonker’s voice now. 
Robbie dropped his oars into the water, but he didn’t row for the Free Spirit . Instead, he pulled hard for the reef itself. 
A crackle on the line. “Robbie, are you headed toward the reef?” 
“They can’t bomb me if I’m right on top of them,” he said. He radioed the Free Spirit and got it to steam for his location. 
The coral was scraping his hull now, a grinding sound, then a series of solid whack-whack-whacks as his oars pushed against the top of the reef itself. He wanted to beach himself, though, get really high and dry on the reef, good and stuck in where they couldn’t possibly attack him. 
The Free Spirit was heading closer, the thrum of its engines vibrating through his hull. He was burning a lot of cycles talking it through its many fail-safes, getting it ready to ram hard. 
Tonker was screaming at him, his messages getting louder and clearer as the Free Spirit and its microwave uplink drew closer. Once they were line-of-sight, Robbie peeled off a subsystem to email a complete copy of himself to the Asimovist archive. The third law, dontchaknow. If he’d had a mouth, he’d have been showing his teeth as he grinned. 
That was when I spotted the outlines of another door— why hadn't I noticed it sooner?—this one steel, there on the left. Alex Goddard might walk in any second now, but I had to try to learn everything I could as fast as I could. What was going on besides what was going on? 
Alert for any new sounds from outside, I quickly went over and tried the knob. 
It was locked tight. 
Figured. Now I really wanted to know what was in there. 
When I glanced around the office, I noticed a ring of keys on the desk. Could he have forgotten them? 
More important, would I blow everything if he caught me snooping? In spite of his attempt at a cool veneer, he might go ballistic. 
I made a snap decision. Take the chance and give them a try. 
My hands were so moist I had trouble holding the slippery keys, but finally I managed to shove in the first one. It went in, but nothing would turn. 
Come on. I managed to wiggle the next one in, my hand trembling now, but again the knob wouldn't budge. Footsteps outside marched up to the door and I stopped breathing, but then they moved on. 
“So these people in Mexico or wherever, what are they doing? They’re earning their living by exploiting the game. You and me, we would never trade cash for gold, or buy a character or a weapon on eBay—it’s cheating. You get gold and weapons through hard work and hard play. But those Mexicans spend all day, every day, crafting stuff to turn into gold to sell off on the exchange. That’s where it comes from —that’s where the crappy players get their gold from! That’s how rich noobs can buy their way into the game that we had to play hard to get into. 
“So we burn them out. If we keep burning the factories down, they’ll shut them down and those kids’ll find something else to do for a living and the game will be better. If no one does that, our work will just get cheaper and cheaper: the game will get less and less fun, too. 
“These people don’t care about the game. To them, it’s just a place to suck a buck out of. They’re not players, they’re leeches, here to suck all the fun out.” 
They had come upon the cottage now, the fourth one, having exterminated four different sniper-nests on the way. 
“I thought I was already doing you one,” I said, not entirely without bitterness. “Isn’t this whole job a favor?” 
He huffed out a breath. “Talk to Checker?” 
Fury clawed up in me, shockingly hot, clogging my head until my scalp prickled with it. 
Arthur twitched back. “Not about that, Russell. Not talking about you. I swear.” 
I clamped my jaw down on what I had been about to say. “What, then?” I growled through my teeth. 
Arthur hesitated, his fingers pressing against the laminated pine of the tabletop. “This thing with the Lancer. Was hard on him.” 
“It was hard on him?” I repeated. “Excuse me, was he shot at and locked up and also almost blown to pieces three separate times?” 
“He could use a friend, ’s all I’m saying.” He made a vague gesture and headed out the door. 
I turned and leaned my head against the wall. Arthur had too high expectations of me, as always. I wasn’t in any condition to be a friend to anyone. I’d never been very good at being a friend to anyone. 
I’d figured the updates were just because he was curious, or keeping tabs for us, as he did. Or, hell, I hadn’t figured at all—I hadn’t even thought about it. 
Leon swallowed and looked at Ria. There was nothing on her face. "I can't help but notice," he said, forcing his voice to its absolutely calmest, "that you haven't mentioned anything to do with the, uh, clients ." 
Brautigan nodded and strained to pull his lips over his horsey teeth to hide his grin. It didn't work. "Yeah," he said. "That's about right. We need someone of your talents doing what he does best, and what you do best is --" 
He held up a hand. Brautigan fell silent. The three of them looked at him. He realized, in a flash, that he had them all in his power, just at that second. He could shout BOO! and they'd all fall off their chairs. They were waiting to see if he'd blow his top or take it and ask for more. He did something else. 
"Nice working with ya," he said. And he turned his back on the sweetest, softest job anyone could ask for. He said adios and buena suerte to Carmela on the way out, and he forced himself not to linger around the outside doors down at street level to see if anyone would come chasing after him. 
<zen> It's not that bad. I just do homework and take naps and stay up all night goofing around on the internet. 
<wheeze> Any word on your brother? 
<zen> Nothing definite. I never thought it would take so long. 
<wheeze> Me either. Sometimes I forget I'm a fugitive from justice, but when I remember, I worry that they'll find me and Jane will get in trouble and that would be awful . Do they let you visit Wilson? 
<zen> We go every weekend. SO. WEIRD. They have those telephone things like on TV, so you can't really talk. 
<wheeze> Why can't he get out on bail? 
My adoptive mother seemed a little scared of me. I had grown taller since I’d left home and it unnerved her that we were the same size. In December she said she would take me to a spa as a treat. We could use the sauna and get a massage, then get our hair done. Wouldn’t that be fun? She was twisting her wedding ring nervously. I said thanks, but no, and she didn’t push it, even though I knew my untamed hair was driving her nuts. 
There was a plaque with my name on it and presumably there was an urn full of ashes behind that plaque and why the hell was there a stone cover here with my name on it? 
Maybe it was a different Cassandra Russell. 
The dates of birth and death were years only. One almost a quarter of a century previous—that fit, at least roughly. The other only a few years ago. 
Before I had considered it, I had grabbed one of the stanchions attached to some velvet rope barriers, dragging it forward so the rest of its fellows collapsed to the floor behind it in a cacophony, and bashed the base of it into the stone like a battering ram. 
The crack echoed through the building, off all the other quiet stone tablets. I smashed the stanchion into my name again and again, until the stone cracked and crumbled, until the fissures spread out in spider webs across neighboring cover stones. Then I threw the impromptu mallet to the floor and dug at the pieces, scrabbled at them until my fingers bled, tearing them out of the way until I could see inside. 
"Good-by!" he said, taking her slim brown hands in his, adding, as if he saw her for the first time, "Why, little Rose-Red-Snow-White is making way for a new girl! Burning the midnight oil and doing four years' work in three is supposed to dull the eye and blanch the cheek, yet Rebecca's eyes are bright and she has a rosy color! Her long braids are looped one on the other so that they make a black letter U behind, and they are tied with grand bows at the top! She is so tall that she reaches almost to my shoulder. This will never do in the world! How will Mr. Aladdin get on without his comforting little friend! He doesn't like grown-up young ladies in long trains and wonderful fine clothes; they frighten and bore him!" 
"Oh, Mr. Aladdin!" cried Rebecca eagerly, taking his jest quite seriously; "I am not fifteen yet, and it will be three years before I'm a young lady; please don't give me up until you have to!" 
"I won't; I promise you that," said Adam. "Rebecca," he continued, after a moment's pause, "who is that young girl with a lot of pretty red hair and very citified manners? She escorted me down the hill; do you know whom I mean?" 
“Over and out, Secret Agent Zen.” 
I had a feeling I’d be hearing a lot of dumb jokes like that, but it was okay for Nikko to goof off so long as what we were plan- ning actually worked. I fiddled a little more with my chain, then I hiked back to the crowd. Some television crews had shown up. 
I stayed out of their range as I checked out the Twitter hashtag #Freethe9 as people made speeches, including some law professor who seemed to specialize in Twitter-sized sound bites. 
I noticed a scruffy-looking white guy approaching one of the few black women in the crowd. His scruffiness wasn’t like the students who grew scraggly beards and wore expensively torn clothes. His look came from not having a place to sleep and not knowing anybody who owned a couch that he could surf on. 
The woman he spoke to shook her head and he turned to move through the crowd, his expression tense, like he knew he didn’t belong. As I watched, he approached another black girl who was cheering the law professor. He leaned close. She said something angry and backed away. 
“Never solved?” said Lexy. “But lots of them are! You can read in the newspapers all the time about crimes that—” 
“The mystery of a crime is never solved,” the doctor blandly proceeded. “Never! Let us say, for example, that a murder is committed. The police investigate, they arrest some one. There is a trial, the jury finds that the suspect is guilty, the judge sentences him, and he is executed. Public opinion is satisfied; but as a matter of fact, nothing whatever has been solved. It is all guesswork. Not one living soul, not one member of the jury, not the judge, not the executioner, really knows that the accused man was guilty. They think so—that is all. What you call a ‘solution’ is merely a guess, based upon probabilities.” 
Lexy considered this with an earnest frown. 
“Well,” she said at last, “quite often criminals confess.” 
“In the days of witchcraft trials,” said he, “it was not uncommon for women to come forward voluntarily and confess to being witches. In the course of my own practice I have known people to confess things they could not possibly have done. No!” He shook his head and smiled faintly. “An acquaintance with the psychology of the diseased mind makes one very skeptical about confessions, Miss Moran.” 
“They wouldn’t want to stop you from using your computer. 
They’d install a keylogger or a Trojan so they could watch every- thing you did.” She frowned. Smiles might not be her style, but frowns were. “I doubt they could, though. This is a pretty tight system you got here.” 
“That’s the only way I’d ever use the internet. I could live with- out it, but there’s some old books out there on animal husbandry that I’ve been going through for ideas. Lot of what you find in them is cockamamie, but sometimes they have home remedies that really work. Trying one on that chicken over there.” 
I updated the OS and the Tor bundle and some other stuff, 
and then she sat next to me and asked questions and wrote down how to do it herself. Then she sent me out back to round up Nikko and Bree, who had just about filled up the jar with nuts. 
They had also had explored the old barn, which had a hayloft with a rope you could swing on, and a pen where chickens were milling around bales of hay. I figured out why she called herself “chookchaser” - it sounded as if they were all saying “chook, 
Elaine jumped down, holding her laserpointer in her hand. 
"Run!" Lee-Daniel said, shoving at the two surveyors, then taking off, running blindly in the moonlight, whacking into tree-trunks, tripping. 
The bus was crowded with CogRads and he vaulted up the steps and slammed into the driver's seat, authenticating on the palm-reader and putting the bus through its warm-up/lock-down urban defense checklist. He was vaguely aware of more bodies coming in, then he slammed the door-close button as the shutters unrolled over the windows. 
He hit the internal lights, stood and turned around. "Count off," he shouted, over the buzz of conversation. 
Automatically, MacDiarmid said, "One," as he had at every count since he'd signed on and gotten the first investor's chair. 
He turned to the Series A man expectantly. "Fuck that," he said, in an uncharacteristic burst of blue talk. "Drive, goddamit! Now!" 
Lee-Daniel pointed at him and said, "Two," then pointed at the Series B man and said, "Three." He pointed at the middle-managers behind him and they began to count off methodically. 
"It takes so little to make you feel like a fool, Emma Jane," rebuked Rebecca, "that sometimes I think that you must BE one I don't get to feeling like a fool so awfully easy; now leave out that eating part if you don't like it, and go on." 
"The Snow-White is probably the most remarkable laundry soap ever manufactured. Immerse the garments in a tub, lightly rubbing the more soiled portions with the soap; leave them submerged in water from sunset to sunrise, and then the youngest baby can wash them without the slightest effort." 
"BABE, not baby," corrected Rebecca from the circular. 
"It's just the same thing," argued Emma Jane. 
"Of course it's just the same THING; but a baby has got to be called babe or infant in a circular, the same as it is in poetry! Would you rather say infant?" 
"No," grumbled Emma Jane; "infant is worse even than babe. Rebecca, do you think we'd better do as the circular says, and let Elijah or Elisha try the soap before we begin selling?" 
"I can't imagine a babe doing a family wash with ANY soap," answered Rebecca; "but it must be true or they would never dare to print it, so don't let's bother. Oh! won't it be the greatest fun, Emma Jane? At some of the houses—where they can't possibly know me—I shan't be frightened, and I shall reel off the whole rigmarole, invalid, babe, and all. Perhaps I shall say even the last sentence, if I can remember it: 'We sound every chord in the great mac-ro-cosm of satisfaction." 
"They may be," smiled Adam, taking in the old man's mood; "only I don't happen to know one." 
"My eyesight bein' poor 's the reason she looked han'somest of any girl on the platform, I s'pose?" 
"There's no failure in my eyes," responded Adam, "but that was how the thing seemed to me!" 
"What did you think of her voice? Anything extry about it?" 
"Made the others sound poor and thin, I thought." 
"Well, I'm glad to hear your opinion, you bein' a traveled man, for mother says I'm foolish 'bout Rebecky and hev been sence the fust. Mother scolds me for spoilin' her, but I notice mother ain't fur behind when it comes to spoilin'. Land! it made me sick, thinkin' o' them parents travelin' miles to see their young ones graduate, and then when they got here hevin' to compare 'em with Rebecky. Good-by, Mr. Ladd, drop in some day when you come to Riverboro." 
"I will," said Adam, shaking the old man's hand cordially; "perhaps to-morrow if I drive Rebecca home, as I shall offer to do. Do you think Miss Sawyer's condition is serious?" 
"I think you owe me an apology," he said. 
I looked at him. He was barely suppressing his sadistic smile. A part of me wanted to grovel. It wanted to beg for his forgiveness for all my shame. I tamped that part down and decided that I would rather get kicked out than apologize. 
"Governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed, that whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it, and to institute new government, laying its foundation on such principles, and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness." I remembered it word for word. 
He shook his head. "Remembering things isn't the same as understanding them, sonny." He bent over his computer and made some clicks. His printer purred. He handed me a sheet of warm Board letterhead that said I'd been suspended for two weeks. 
"I'll email your parents now. If you are still on school property in thirty minutes, you'll be arrested for trespassing." 
“All right!” he said impatiently. “Come on, Lexy!” 
They got into Joe’s cab together, and off they went. 
“What happened to your hand?” inquired Lexy, as if it didn’t much matter. 
“Knife through it,” he answered. “You see, I held the old fellow, to give Mrs. Quelton a chance to get away. When I thought it was all right, I gave him a shove backward, and started to climb over the balcony; and he jabbed a knife through my hand. That’s what kept me so long—I couldn’t get it out; and after I did, I—rested for a while. Then I started for Wyngate, and I met Joe coming back to look for me. He said he’d landed Mrs. Quelton all right. So that’s all!” 
Lexy was silent for a moment. 
“Of course you didn’t know it wasn’t Mrs. Quelton,” she said. “It was Caroline all the time.” 
“Caroline?” he cried. “What do you mean? It couldn’t have been Caroline!” 
Lexy gave him a very brief, very bare account of Caroline’s narrative. 
“Oh!” he said, when she had done; and again there was silence for a time. “Does she still want to go on with the thing—marrying me, I mean?” he asked finally, in a queer, flat tone. 
"That's what I'm hoping." Immediately, she puts her hand to her face. "God, that makes me sound so mercenary. It's not that bad, Ray, really. I don't need to be rescued."  Ray reaches for her hand, uncovers her eyes. "It's okay." 
A moment later, Gino is there, dark and burly, bona fide Italian, bustling them through wine lists and menu recommendations and pronouncements on the virtues of linguini al sugo di pescatore and Sicilian mostacciolo. He's a whirlwind of jovial service, gregarious high pressure sales, winking too much, slapping shoulders, impressing them with the sense of how deeply insulted he'll be if they don't take each one of his menu selections to heart. 
Once he's gone, Ray says, "At least that explains the reception I received." 
"From Amah, you mean?" 
"Yes. She's afraid I'm going to try to steal you away, and that you're more than willing to be stolen. " 
"And that's not what you want?" 
Ouch. "Too early to call it." 
"Why?" 
He chuckles uncomfortably. "Because I snore. Because my feet smell bad. Because I sleep with my socks on and like to wear the same pair of skivvies two or three days in a row. I have a whole list of reasons for possible rejection, any one of which I fully suspect will bring to screeching to your senses as soon as you become aware of them. How's that?" 
"How . . . did you know?" I finally managed to say. "I never mentioned—" 
"That's the name they gave me. I received a call this morn­ing from Guatemala City. From Colonel Ramos's office, in fact. As you might suppose, he's well aware you're here, and he said you were seen dining night before last at a downtown restaurant with a man by that name. They think he's in the country because of you, and they're trying to locate him." 
I felt the life go entirely out of me. My God what was going on? Steve was now the subject of a manhunt in a police state. Did he even know? 
"I told them you were here for purely medical reasons." He sighed with frustration. "And that they were being irra­tionally paranoid but . . ." 
"So they don't actually know where he is, right?" I was still trying to breathe. 
"As of this morning. If they did they wouldn't have called up here." He walked over and set the tray down on a rustic table next to the bed. "I wouldn't worry too much about it. He's committed no crime. They just want to make sure you realize your presence has not gone unnoticed." 
Lawrence's cubicle was just the right place to chew on a thorny logfile problem: decorated with the votive fetishes of his monastic order, a thousand calming, clarifying mandalas and saints devoted to helping him think clearly. 
From the nearby cubicles, Lawrence heard the ritualized muttering of a thousand brothers and sisters in the Order of Reflective Analytics, a susurration of harmonized, concentrated thought. On his display, he watched an instrument widget track the decibel level over time, the graph overlayed on a 3D curve of normal activity over time and space. He noted that the level was a little high, the room a little more anxious than usual. 
He clicked and tapped and thought some more, massaging the logfile to see if he could make it snap into focus and make sense, but it stubbornly refused to be sensible. The data tracked the custody chain of the bitstream the Order munged for the Securitat, and somewhere in there, a file had grown by 68 bytes, blowing its checksum and becoming An Anomaly. 
We arrived at Leena Kingsley’s house fifty-two minutes after we’d left Tresting’s office. The drive had been mostly silent—Tresting was lost in his own thoughts, and for my own part, I figured our détente was too touchy and fragile, and going into a possibly-hostile situation wasn’t the time to mess with it. 
Tresting cruised by the first time without slowing. A cop car sat on the street outside, but only one, and its lights weren’t flashing. The small house was still—no sign that anything was amiss, and no neighbors gawking. It didn’t look like there had been a shootout here. 
Of course, that didn’t mean anything. This was a nice residential neighborhood, with well-groomed yards and picket fences and rosebushes, and Pithica liked subtle. 
Tresting circled the block and then pulled over a few houses prior to Dr. Kingsley’s. He reached into the duffel he’d brought the shotgun in, pulled out a scope, and held it up to one eye. “Can’t see much,” he said after a moment. “But there’s movement. Think she and the cops are talking.” 
I learned it to speak in school, but the scholars were hateful and laughed. Hannah is the oldest, I come next, then John, then Jenny, then Mark, then Fanny, then Mira." 
"Well, that IS a big family!" 
"Far too big, everybody says," replied Rebecca with an unexpected and thoroughly grown-up candor that induced Mr. Cobb to murmur, "I swan!" and insert more tobacco in his left cheek. 
"They're dear, but such a bother, and cost so much to feed, you see," she rippled on. "Hannah and I haven't done anything but put babies to bed at night and take them up in the morning for years and years. But it's finished, that's one comfort, and we'll have a lovely time when we're all grown up and the mortgage is paid off." 
"All finished? Oh, you mean you've come away?" 
"No, I mean they're all over and done with; our family 's finished. Mother says so, and she always keeps her promises. There hasn't been any since Mira, and she's three. She was born the day father died. Aunt Miranda wanted Hannah to come to Riverboro instead of me, but mother couldn't spare her; she takes hold of housework better than I do, Hannah does. I told mother last night if there was likely to be any more children while I was away I'd have to be sent for, for when there's a baby it always takes Hannah and me both, for mother has the cooking and the farm." 
That overbearing tone, that grasp on her arm, were very nearly too much for Lexy. She had always been quick-tempered. All the Morans were, and were perversely proud of it, too; but Lexy had learned many lessons in a hard school. She had learned to control her temper, and she did so now. She was silent for a time. 
“All right!” she agreed, at last. “I’ll come. I don’t see what else I can do—now; but after this I’ll have to use my own judgment, Mrs. Enderby.” 
“You have none,” Mrs. Enderby told her calmly. 
Lexy clenched her hands, and again was silent for a moment. 
“I mean—” she began. 
“I know very well what you mean,” said Mrs. Enderby. “You mean that you will keep faith with me no longer. I saw that. You wished to run off and tell your story to some one this afternoon. I stopped that. After this, I cannot stop you any longer. You will tell, but I think no one will listen to you. I shall deny it, and no one will be likely to listen to the word of a discharged employee.” 
Lexy had grown very pale. 
Ray Marlowe has been charged with the singular task of retrieving one of the wayward rats that populates the service decks of the starship which has, for reasons unknown, gotten itself stuck and broken somewhere in the tube above him. If possible, he would like to complete this mission without having to subject himself to the vertical ascent of the primary core cooling shaft. He ponders the possibility of just remaining where he is and calling out sweetly to the malfunctioning unit in hopes that it will scurry down to him. The rats are equipped with a frightening array of aural, optical and chemical sensors. On the other hand, so are human beings, and there's nothing in his experience that is more detrimental to professional dignity than a grubby man crawling through ventilation ducts being overheard by half the ship's service crew imploring the return of a drone rat as though it was a recalcitrant kitten. 
He really has no desire to subject himself to that sort of abuse. 
He unclips the signal tracker from the breast pocket of his coveralls. Ziggy has already calibrated the device to pick up the rat's unique- signature radio transmissions, but Ray punches in the particular rat's code sequence once again. He hopes that Ziggy has made an error, that the tracker will give him more useful (i.e. less hazardous) information than it did prior to his tube crawling adventure. It does not. 
She drops her chin until it rests against her breast, and all Ray can see is the top of her head. 
But just for a moment. 
With a jerk, she stiffens, lifts her head and sets her mouth in a firm, thin line. "News of a Whiston tragedy has always travels quickly. There must be morbid delight in our suffering." 
"No, not at all." She doesn't understand, he realizes. She doesn't see any way he could know about Micah so soon, except as a recipient of a firestorm of gossip. Ugh. "It's not like you think. I was dragged into the investigation by Security Chief Becker this afternoon-to coordinate the drones, you understand. We use them to gather physical evidence to keep from contaminating the crime scene. Sometimes, it puts me in a position to hear privileged information." He gives her a grim, understanding expression to hide the lie he has just told. 
It feels oily to him, like cheap theatrical makeup poorly applied. "Chief Becker is going to play this one close. 
Murder reflects poorly on security's reputation." 
As soon as we sat down, she unrolled her burrito and took a little bottle out of her purse. It was a little stainless-steel aerosol canister that looked for all the world like a pepper-spray self-defense unit. She aimed it at her burrito's exposed guts and misted them with a fine red oily spray. I caught a whiff of it and my throat closed and my eyes watered. 
"What the hell are you doing to that poor, defenseless burrito?" 
She gave me a wicked smile. "I'm a spicy food addict," she said. "This is capsaicin oil in a mister." 
"Capsaicin --" 
"Yeah, the stuff in pepper spray. This is like pepper spray but slightly more dilute. And way more delicious. Think of it as Spicy Cajun Visine if it helps." 
My eyes burned just thinking of it. 
"You're kidding," I said. "You are so not going to eat that." 
Her eyebrows shot up. "That sounds like a challenge, sonny. You just watch me." 
She rolled the burrito up as carefully as a stoner rolling up a joint, tucking the ends in, then re-wrapping it in tinfoil. She peeled off one end and brought it up to her mouth, poised with it just before her lips. 
“Of course I do,” she said. “I have a great enjoyment of language in particular. I admit I don’t enjoy the more ribald—bullying, shall we say—brand of humor. It gives me no pleasure to put other people down.” 
“You put down a lot of your people out there today,” I said. I half-saw her stiffen out of the corner of my eye. “Hey, you’re the one who likes puns.” 
“I admit, we fell for the first part of your ruse.” Her voice was still soft, but the words had turned dangerous and threatening, the sound of a cobra sliding over dead leaves. “You killed many good men and women tonight. I won’t forget it.” 
Well, that was a bit unfair. Where did she get off blaming me for defending myself? 
Her tone became derisive. “Ms. Russell. Really. You set a trap to murder me, and then call your violence self-defense? Oh, you bring self-justifying, irrational absurdity to a new level.” 
It was the first time she had ever spoken to me anything less than politely. It sounded out of place and slightly shocking, like hearing a priest start cussing. 
the ones not working, have exploded. Maybe an electrical surge. Except that wouldn't explain the desk from Bobby Diggs' security checkpoint, turned on its side and the chair rocked back against the wall, tilted at a precarious angle. There's no one around, just the oppressive not-sound of an underused deck, the hum of thrust through the hull and the faint murmur of the stuttering lights. And this would be wrong enough, more than enough, but from the trapezoidal glare cast by the lift's recessed bulbs, he sees the rest. Not much, just an elongated swath of liquid, a swabbed deck that hasn't yet dried. Only the streak is black in the dim, but not black. A color like black, but rich, coppery in its scent, glinting faintly. 
Blood. 
Ray is suddenly not very happy to find himself alone. 
Quietly, whispering, he says, "I'm on the deck. Making my way to you. I'll be there in less than sixty." 
In his ear, faintly, sounding impossibly far away, Rodriguez responds, "We'll keep an eye out. Bobby Diggs is here, sir." 
“Of course, if you have a blind faith in Dr. Quelton—” she persisted. 
“Well, I haven’t,” he admitted; “but—” 
“Then let’s go upstairs and see her. The doctor has gone out.” 
“But the nurse—” 
“Put on your best commanding officer’s air,” said Lexy. “You can be awfully impressive when you like. If I were you, there’s nothing I’d stop at.” 
“Yes, but look here—what can I say to Quelton when he hears about it?” 
“Laugh it off,” said Lexy. 
The idea of Captain Grey trying to laugh off anything made her grin from ear to ear. 
“Not much of a joke, though, is it?” he said rather stiffly. “Suppose he hoofs us out of the house?” 
“Oh, dear!” cried Lexy. “You’re not a bit resourceful! Let’s try it, anyhow. It’s horrible to think of her shut up like that. Perhaps she’s longing to see you.” 
He rose. 
“Right-o!” he said. “Let’s try it!” 
Together they went up the stairs and down the hall of the other wing, opposite that in which Lexy’s room was. Captain Grey knocked on a door, and a quiet, middle-aged little nurse came out. 
"I don' know how 'tis," grumbled Miranda, who was not able to sit up that day; "but from a child I could never lay abed without Aurelia's gettin' sick too. I don' know 's she could help fallin', though it ain't anyplace for a woman,—a haymow; but if it hadn't been that, 't would 'a' been somethin' else. Aurelia was born unfortunate. Now she'll probably be a cripple, and Rebecca'll have to nurse her instead of earning a good income somewheres else." 
"Her first duty 's to her mother," said aunt Jane; "I hope she'll always remember that." 
"Nobody remembers anything they'd ought to,—at seventeen," responded Miranda. "Now that I'm strong again, there's things I want to consider with you, Jane, things that are on my mind night and day. We've talked 'em over before; now we'll settle 'em. When I'm laid away, do you want to take Aurelia and the children down here to the brick house? There's an awful passel of 'em,—Aurelia, Jenny, and Fanny; but I won't have Mark. Hannah can take him; I won't have a great boy stompin' out the carpets and ruinin' the furniture, though I know when I'm dead I can't hinder ye, if you make up your mind to do anything." 
“Me? No. But she wouldn’t have been working on it if it wasn’t for me. I led her into catastrophe. To the end of things. All the way from the beginning—I recruited her, you know. She reminded me too much of myself. Oh. I talk too much.” She screwed the pen back together, clicked it open, clicked it closed, then began unscrewing it again. Every so often her gaze behind the enormous glasses would skitter across Arthur or me, but never long enough to make eye contact. 
Arthur pulled his phone from his pocket and tossed it to me. “Get Checker on security cams. See if he can track whoever snatched her. Dr. Martinez, let’s get a doctor to look at you, okay? It’s safer.” 
“‘Safer’ is a funny word. Not well-defined. Since the certainty is that we will all die, ‘safer’ does not, to me, seem to have very great meaning.” 
“Don’t be an idiot,” I snapped, paying more attention to punching the phone buttons than to her. “You can define it as per probability of death or injury in the immediate moment or near future.” God, if there was one thing I hated it was people trying to make math fuzzy. 
“I’ve got to go in,” I finally said to the recording. “I, uh—I hope that doesn’t interfere with any of your plans or anything.” I didn’t have a choice, though. Stupid Arthur Tresting had forced all of our hands. 
I went well above the speed limit the whole way, but it was still almost three hours before the GPS in the sports car told me I was nearing the coordinates Checker had sent. The location was off any roads, but I circled around and barely made out the outlines of an unmarked half-paved track leading into the desert. I paused the car, switching off the headlights and letting my eyes adjust to the dimness. 
Cell service had dropped out miles before. I was alone out here, driving into what was almost certainly an ambush. Shit. I might pack a whole lot more punch than Pithica was expecting, but if they sprung a trap before I saw it, I’d be just as dead as someone who didn’t know any math. 
As long as I had an instant to react, however, I’d have the edge. And Tresting didn’t have a chance without me, I reminded myself. I took a deep breath, every sense alert, and nosed the car forward down the makeshift road. 
“Wow, we already hit Godwin’s Law,” I said. She looked at me, puzzled. “It’s this thing, when somebody in an argument drags Nazis into it? It’s kind of over, because usually it’s a ridiculous comparison.” 
“Ah. Recluctio ad Hitlerum.” 
“That’s awesome. How do you spell that?” 
She spelled it. “It’s a riff on a common fallacy, reduction ad absurdum. You take a proposition to its extreme to show how it must be wrong.” 
“Only this time it’s not wrong, because you’re not really saying those two cops acted like Nazis. You’re saying people are respon- sible for their actions even if they’re following orders, which God- win would agree with. That’s the guy who came up with the law originally.” 
I realized I was babbling out of nervousness, but I couldn’t seem to stop, as if a lot of words would fill up the room and crowd out the bad feeling the two cops left behind. “I first looked him up when the FBI sent Wikipedia a takedown notice over a picture of their official seal, which was totally unfair because the Encyclopae^ dia Britannica had the same picture in their article and nobody made them take it down. They were just picking on Wikipedia because they could. Godwin wrote this hilarious letter explaining why they were legally off base.” 
I jerked awake. I was on a thin mattress in the shithole apartment I’d driven to, dirty and bloodied bandages scattered on the floor from redressing my accumulating injuries. My hand, back, and ribs had started to throb, but I could tell that wasn’t what had woken me. 
Sleep had never been particularly restful for me, but in the last two years the nightmares had become worse and worse. More detailed and more crippling. When I wasn’t on the job, I couldn’t hope to stay asleep for more than half an hour before I woke, tangled and sweating and hyperventilating. Getting blackout drunk was the only thing that helped. 
And now I was having trouble while working. Work had always focused me, kept me sane, but now... 
I wasn’t stupid; I knew why it was happening. Two years ago was when we’d gone up against Pithica, when a psychic had rooted through my brain like it was her own personal rummage sale. I didn’t think she had taken any particular care not to break anything. 
It was what it was. Just something I had to deal with now, I supposed. 
He leaned in, but I raised my glass and pretended to drink, 
fending him off. “What’s your next favorite record? Can we play that one now before I get too sleepy?” 
He studied me for a minute, then lifted the record off the turntable and started to fit another one over the spindle. “You’ll love this one. Taps into the blues tradition.” 
“Cool.” All of the artists on the album cover he was showing me were skinny white guys, but this didn’t seem like the moment for a lecture on cultural appropriation. 
He switched the record on and watched the arm plunk the needle down. Somebody wailed about first-world problems in a high voice. Simon stood and reached for me. I dodged away, 
laughing. “I’m kinda drunk.” 
“That’s okay.” 
“You have to catch up with me. Drink your beer.” I shook my finger at him like a child giving orders. He laughed and guzzled some down. I tipped my glass back and pretended to drink, letting some slosh as I wiped my mouth with my sleeve, suddenly worried that I would spill wine over the expensive spy-camera shirt. I real- ized the camera was still on, recording everything. I felt hot, 
I lay in bed and listened to a late-night call-in radio show. The topic was sex problems, with this gay guy who I normally loved to listen to, he would give people such raw advice, but good advice, and he was really funny and campy. 
Tonight I couldn't laugh. Most of the callers wanted to ask what to do about the fact that they were having a hard time getting busy with their partners ever since the attack. Even on sex-talk radio, I couldn't get away from the topic. 
I switched the radio off and heard a purring engine on the street below. 
My bedroom is in the top floor of our house, one of the painted ladies. I have a sloping attic ceiling and windows on both sides -- one overlooks the whole Mission, the other looks out into the street in front of our place. There were often cars cruising at all hours of the night, but there was something different about this engine noise. 
I went to the street-window and pulled up my blinds. Down on the street below me was a white, unmarked van whose roof was festooned with radio antennas, more antennas than I'd ever seen on a car. It was cruising very slowly down the street, a little dish on top spinning around and around. 
"Number one, the non-passenger deck lifts don't have an express override. He would have been running a chance that anybody who wanted to get on the lift at any point between where he got on and Omicron could just push a button, wait for the doors to open and find him out. " 
Rodriguez says, "Unless he was hard enough that he wouldn't have any qualms killing someone he encountered in an accidental meeting. From what you've said, Ray, about the disposition of the corpse, I'd assume this is a guy without qualms." 
Kilgore jerks his thumb at Rodriguez and winks. "Officer material here is forgetting that then the suspect would have two or more bodies to dispose of then, and he'd have a mess to deal with in the elevator. That creates a whole bunch of annoying details to deal with. I'd assume if I was trying to stash a body somewhere that I'd go out of my way to avoid creating extra details." 
"Besides that," Diggs went on. "I got me a lift sensor that pings my radio whenever the elevator stops on this level. The cargo boys know that they're supposed to wait for me to come back to them if they need to make a pick up, and they can't get into any of the bays without my card to admit them, so the system works just fine. I would have known if the suspect had come down on the lift, unless it didn't happen on my shift. If it happened before I punched in, then the last shift would have found the body-assuming, of course that they even stepped away from the desk in the first place, which is unlikely." 
Two weeks after the siege began, her mother didn’t come home and the city came for her father. 
“Every adult, comrade, every adult fights for the city.” 
“My children—” he sputtered. Mata hadn’t been home all night, and it wasn’t the first time. She and Popa barely spoke anymore. 
“Your girl there is big enough to look after herself, aren’t you honey?” The woman from the city was short and plump and wore heavy armor and was red in the face from walking up ten flights to get to their flat. The power to the elevators was almost always out. 
Valentine hugged her father’s leg. “My Popa will fight for the city,” she said. “He’s a hero.” 
He was. He’d fought in the revolution and he’d been given a medal for it. Sometimes when no one was looking, Valentine took out her parents’ medals and looked at their tiny writing, their shining, unscratchable surfaces, their intricate ribbons. 
The woman from the city gave her father a look that said, You see, a child understands, what’s your excuse? Valentine couldn’t quite feel guilty for taking the woman’s side. Leeza’s parents fought every day. 
Mrs. Cobb took in the situation at a glance, and professed herself able to remove almost any stain from almost any fabric; and in this she was corroborated by uncle Jerry, who vowed that mother could git anything out. Sometimes she took the cloth right along with the spot, but she had a sure hand, mother had! 
The damaged garment was removed and partially immersed in turpentine, while Rebecca graced the festal board clad in a blue calico wrapper of Mrs. Cobb's. 
"Don't let it take your appetite away," crooned Mrs. Cobb. "I've got cream biscuit and honey for you. If the turpentine don't...  and warm suds. If they fail, father shall run over to Strout's and borry some of the stuff Marthy got in Milltown to take the currant pie out of her weddin' dress." 
"I ain't got to understandin' this paintin' accident yet," said uncle Jerry jocosely, as he handed Rebecca the honey. "Bein' as how there's 'Fresh Paint' signs hung all over the breedge, so 't a blind asylum couldn't miss 'em, I can't hardly account for your gettin' int' the pesky stuff." 
Robbie hardly ever visited the noosphere. Its rarified heights were spooky to him, especially since so many of the humans there considered Asimovism to be hokum. They refused to even identify themselves as humans, and argued that the first and second laws didn’t apply to them. Of course, Asimovists didn’t care (at least not officially)—the point of the faith was the worshipper’s relationship to it. 
But here he was, looking for high-reliability nodes of discussion on coral reefs. The natural place to start was Wikipedia, where warring clades had been revising each others’ edits furiously, trying to establish an authoritative record on reef-mind. Paging back through the edit-history, he found a couple of handles for the pro-reef-mind users, and from there, he was able to look around for other sites where those handles appeared. Resolving the namespace collisions of other users with the same names, and forked instances of the same users, Robbie was able to winnow away at the net until he found some contact info. 
"No immediate plans," I said, immediately wondering how I could swing it. "But you never know." 
I wasn't entirely sure how to approach Steve anymore. There was something about the abrupt way he took off that left things up in the air. A tiny sliver of uneasiness was slipping into my head-over-heels trust, the camel's nose under the tent. 
"First the good news," I declared. "David's talking to Orion about a theatrical release for Baby Love ." 
Steve knew how deeply I longed for a theatrical—it would be my first—and he enthused appropriately. But he also knew I wouldn't call him early Sunday morning just to tell him that. There was only one other thing that would inspire such an unsocialized act. 
"Uh, should I be asking how the other baby project is going?" he said. 
For a moment I wasn't sure what to say, since I didn't really even know myself. 
"Still a work in progress," I said finally. Then; "Honey, I've just been to see a doctor who's . . . well, he's a little unconventional. And nervous-making. But everything else has failed." 
Then I saw Sarah pull away from the women supporting her and slowly move across the platform. 
"Morgy . . ." 
She was walking in the direction of Alex Goddard, but then she stumbled over the fallen woman's leg and her hand went down as she sprawled across her. She must have touched something, because she recoiled backward, and only then did I notice the flare of a torch glinting off the obsidian knife now protruding from the woman's chest. 
Sarah rose up, her eyes full of anger, and awkwardly flung her arms, searching. I could feel the passion that had been pent up all those months she lay in the coma, feeding her madness. She managed to catch hold of Alex Goddard's arm, and they began an awkward minuet, neither realizing how close they were to the stone platform's edge. I stood mes­merized a moment, then dashed toward them, but only in time to watch them vanish into the rain and haze. It was as though there had been some sleight of hand. One second they were there and the next they weren't. At first I thought my eyes were playing tricks on me, but then I realized it was real. They were gone. 
“Help her!” Robbie screamed. “Please, for Asimov’s sake, help her!” A robot may not harm a human being, or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm. It was the first commandment. Isaac remained immobile. It wasn’t in his programming to help a fellow diver in this situation. He was perfect in the water and on the surface, but once he was in the boat, he might as well be ballast. 
Robbie carefully swung the oar toward the gunwale, trying to bring her closer, but not wanting to mash her hands against the locks. She panted and groaned and reached out for the boat, and finally landed a hand on it. The sun was fully set now, not that it mattered much to Robbie, but he knew that Janet wouldn’t like it. He switched on his running lights and headlights, turning himself into a beacon. 
He felt her arms tremble as she chinned herself into the boat. She collapsed to the deck and slowly dragged herself up. “Jesus,” she said, hugging herself. The air had gone a little nippy, and both of the humans were going goose-pimply on their bare arms. 
He was gripping his arms across his chest very tightly. “I don’t know. Traffic might be backed up getting out, but once I can get my hands on a working laptop—two hours. I can finish in two.” 
“I can give you that,” I said. “Good luck. It’s all down to you now.” 
He shivered. “Cas.” 
“Yeah?” 
He couldn’t seem to form words. 
“Spit it out,” I said. “We’ve got to get going.” 
“Tell me you think you can make it,” he said in a low voice, not looking at me. “Tell me you and Arthur aren’t going to die for this.” 
That was what was bothering him? Oh. “I’m really good at staying not-dead,” I tried to assure him. “It’s a special talent of mine.” 
“Seriously,” said Checker. “Please.” 
Maybe he was right to be concerned. After all, I reflected, I was going after an organization that had just taken down an entire metropolitan area to get to me, and I was going to put myself willingly in their crosshairs. Along with a good friend of Checker’s. When I looked at it that way, my plan felt a trifle more daunting. 
"She'd make a wonderful missionary," said Mrs. Burch; "with her voice, and her magnetism, and her gift of language." 
"If I was to say which of the two she was best adapted for, I'd say she'd make a better heathen," remarked Miranda curtly. 
"My sister don't believe in flattering children," hastily interpolated Jane, glancing toward Mrs. Burch, who seemed somewhat shocked, and was about to open her lips to ask if Rebecca was not a "professor." 
Mrs. Cobb had been looking for this question all the evening and dreading some allusion to her favorite as gifted in prayer. She had taken an instantaneous and illogical dislike to the Rev. Mr. Burch in the afternoon because he called upon Rebecca to "lead." She had seen the pallor creep into the girl's face, the hunted look in her eyes, and the trembling of the lashes on her cheeks, and realized the ordeal through which she was passing. Her prejudice against the minister had relaxed under his genial talk and presence, but feeling that Mrs. Burch was about to tread on dangerous ground, she hastily asked her if one had to change cars many times going from Riverboro to Syria. She felt that it was not a particularly appropriate question, but it served her turn. 
“I think it’s stress-related excema,” Felix said, finally. 
“I don’t get excema,” Van said. 
Felix showed him some lurid photos of red, angry skin flaked with white. “Stress-related excema,” he said, reading the caption. 
Van examined his arms. “I have excema,” he said. 
“Says here to keep it moisturized and to try cortisone cream. You might try the first aid kit in the second-floor toilets. I think I saw some there.” Like all of the sysadmins, Felix had had a bit of a rummage around the offices, bathrooms, kitchen and store-rooms, squirreling away a roll of toilet-paper in his shoulder-bag along with three or four power-bars. They were sharing out the food in the caf by unspoken agreement, every sysadmin watching every other for signs of gluttony and hoarding. All were convinced that there was hoarding and gluttony going on out of eyeshot, because all were guilty of it themselves when no one else was watching. 
Van got up and when his face hove into the light, Felix saw how puffed his eyes were. “I’ll post to the mailing-list for some antihistamine,” Felix said. There had been four mailing lists and three wikis for the survivors in the building within hours of the first meeting’s close, and in the intervening days they’d settled on just one. Felix was still on a little mailing list with five of his most trusted friends, two of whom were trapped in cages in other countries. He suspected that the rest of the sysadmins were doing the same. 
“And share the driving. It’s a long trip.” 
“He’s trustworthy?” 
“It’s a she, actually. I’d trust her with my life.” 
“Maybe you would, but I don’t know her.” Then I realized who it was. “It’s that purple-haired girl.” 
“Her name is Bree.” 
“You realize you’d be putting her at risk, right? Are you sure you want to do that?” 
“She’d totally be up for it. She was talking about how unfair those arrests were before I even heard about it.” 
“I didn’t see her at the protest.” 
“Maybe you just weren’t paying attention.” 
“She was there?” 
“Yes, she was there, tabling for the Solidarity Committee. “ “Oh great, those people who decided to own the cause. They just want to get on television.” 
“You’re not being very rational about this.” 
If there’s one thing that makes me see red, it’s a man telling me I’m not being rational. If he was going to add a stupid crack about PMS I would deck him, I thought, my fists already clenched. 
But of course he didn’t, because Nikko isn’t a sexist jerk, and he quickly backpedaled. 
"Adele, that was stupid . It was like swimming in a urine sample." 
"Same difference. I like a man who can make up his mind. That's what Ethan's father was like: decisive." 
"You'll like my Dad," Sean said. He drummed his fingers on the wheel, then lowered and raised his window. He whistled tunelessly through his teeth. Adele gave him a considering stare and he stopped, and started in on powers of two in his head. 
"There he is," Sean said, 224 later. 
Sean had barely been in Florida for three days, but it was long enough that his father seemed as pale as freezer-burned ice cream. Sean checked the traffic in his rear-view, then pulled across the waiting area to where his father stood, acing out an irate cabbie for the spot. 
Sean's father glared at the car and started to walk behind it to the taxi. Sean leaned on the horn and his father stooped and stared. His expression was bland and grim and affectless. 
Sean powered down Adele's window. "Dad!" 
"Sean?" his father said. 
Sean popped the locks. "Get in, Dad, I'll give you a ride." 
“How long ago was this thing activated?” 
The Texan shrugged. “Coulda been a month, coulda been a day. They’re pretty much fire-and-forget. They can be triggered by phone, radio, timer—hell, this thing’s smart enough to only go off when some complicated condition is set, like ‘once an agent makes his retreat, kill anything that comes after him’. Who knows?” 
He couldn’t take it anymore. 
“I’m going to go start on some paperwork,” he said. “In the car. Phone me if you need me.” 
“Your phone’s toast, pal,” the Texan said. 
“So it is,” Arturo said. “Guess you’d better not need me then.” 
Ada’s phone was not toast. In the car, he flipped it open and showed it his badge then waited a moment while it verified his identity with the Social Harmony brains. Once it had, it spilled its guts. 
She’d called the last ExcuseClub number a month before and he’d had it disconnected. A week later, she was calling the new number, twice more before he caught her. Somewhere in that week, she’d made contact with someone who’d given her the new number. It could have been a friend at school told her face-to-face, but if he was lucky, it was by phone. 
"It is, certain; too hot, most. Why don't you put up your parasol?" 
She extended her dress still farther over the article in question as she said, "Oh dear no! I never put it up when the sun shines; pink fades awfully, you know, and I only carry it to meetin' cloudy Sundays; sometimes the sun comes out all of a sudden, and I have a dreadful time covering it up; it's the dearest thing in life to me, but it's an awful care." 
At this moment the thought gradually permeated Mr. Jeremiah Cobb's slow-moving mind that the bird perched by his side was a bird of very different feather from those to which he was accustomed in his daily drives. He put the whip back in its socket, took his foot from the dashboard, pushed his hat back, blew his quid of tobacco into the road, and having thus cleared his mental decks for action, he took his first good look at the passenger, a look which she met with a grave, childlike stare of friendly curiosity. 
The buff calico was faded, but scrupulously clean, and starched within an inch of its life. From the little standing ruffle at the neck the child's slender throat rose very brown and thin, and the head looked small to bear the weight of dark hair that hung in a thick braid to her waist. She wore an odd little vizored cap of white leghorn, which may either have been the latest thing in children's hats, or some bit of ancient finery furbished up for the occasion. It was trimmed with a twist of buff ribbon and a cluster of black and orange porcupine quills, which hung or bristled stiffly over one ear, giving her the quaintest and most unusual appearance. Her face was without color and sharp in outline. As to features, she must have had the usual number, though Mr. Cobb's attention never proceeded so far as nose, forehead, or chin, being caught on the way and held fast by the eyes. Rebecca's eyes were like faith,—"the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen." Under her delicately etched brows they glowed like two stars, their dancing lights half hidden in lustrous darkness. 
"Come with me," the Securitat man said, pointing to the door on the other side of the alcove that led into a narrow corridor, into the bowels of Penn Station. The door let out onto the concourse, thronged with people shoving past each other, disgorged by train after train. Though none made eye contact with them or each other, they parted magically before them, leaving them with a clear path. 
Lawrence's pan was not helping him. Every inch of his body itched as it nagged at him about the depredations it was facing from the station and the Securitat man. This put him seriously on edge and made his heart and breathing go crazy, triggering another round of warnings from his pan, which wanted him to calm down, but wouldn't help. This was a bad failure mode, one he'd never experienced before. He'd have to file a bug report. 
Some day. 
The Securitat's outpost in Penn Station was as clean as a dentist's office, but with mesh-reinforced windows and locks that made three distinct clicks and a soft hiss when the door closed. The Securitat man impersonally shackled Lawrence to a plastic chair that was bolted into the floor and then went off to a check-in kiosk that he whispered into and prodded at. There was no one else in evidence, but there were huge CCTV cameras, so big that they seemed to be throwbacks to an earlier era, some paleolithic ancestor of the modern camera. These cameras were so big because they were meant to be seen, meant to let you know that you were being watched. 
"Ray," Becker says after awhile, sounding thoughtful. "Why would Whiston be trying to summon a shed on this ship?" 
"I don't know. I'm hoping you can make him tell us." 
"I can't help but be aware of a distinct lack of shed related violence on the shift logs. You said we'd notice if the effort had been successful, right?" 
"The whole ship would notice. It's not the type of thing you can keep secret for very long." 
Becker chews his lip for several moments, on the verge of saying something that obviously distresses him. 
"Has it occurred to you that maybe he or they didn't try to summon the shed on purpose? Not that they failed, 
but that they weren't even trying. That maybe the whole point is to set in motion a chain of events that would get you off the ship and down to New Holyoke. Not a message at all, but a catalyst." 
Except that Ray knows that Jack Holcomb had him on the way the New Holyoke in the first place, before the whole business of murder came up, this would have been a logical conclusion to draw. He's impressed that Becker made the connection. "It could be. Are you telling me to be careful, Chief?" 
“Maybe,” I said. “But it felt really good.” 
Tresting shook his head at me slightly, warning me back, and I felt a flare of resentment. He had no call to tell me how I ought to conduct myself. This wasn’t his game to run, either. 
“Everybody calm down,” Tresting said to the room. “One crisis at a time. Let’s find out what’s going on.” He pulled out his phone and hit a button; as soon as someone picked up, he said, “We’re at Kingsley’s place. Everything’s under control, but I’d like some intel.” There was a slight pause, and then the person on the other end swore copiously and creatively, loudly enough for all of us to hear over the speaker. Tresting winced and held the phone away from his ear a little. “I said everything’s under control,” he tried to insist over Checker’s tirade. He looked at the rest of us. “Be right back.” 
He headed through the foyer and into Leena’s kitchen, trying to get a word in edgewise. He didn’t close the door, however, instead leaning against the counter still in sight of the living room. I wondered if he was keeping an eye on me to make sure I didn’t punch anyone else. 
“Dr. Quelton has given strict orders—” she repeated. 
“No more of that, please!” he said with a frown. “I’m going to see Mrs. Quelton for a moment. Stand aside, please!” 
He did not raise his voice, but the quality of it was oddly changed. Lexy felt a thrill of pleasure in its cool assurance and authority. Perhaps he objected very much to “making a row,” but what a glorious row he could make if he chose! If he would only once face Dr. Quelton like this! 
“Stand aside, if you please!” he repeated, and the poor little nurse, very much flustered, did so. 
“I’m afraid Dr. Quelton will be—” she began, but Captain Grey had already entered the room. 
The nurse followed him, closing the door after her. Lexy opened it at once and went in after them. She caught a glimpse of the young man and the nurse vanishing through one of the long windows that led out to the balcony. For a moment she hesitated, looking about her at the big, dim room. The dark shades were pulled down, and not a trace of the spring’s brightness entered here. 
“I want a royalty,” I pressed. “A percentage. Of whatever you get from this.” 
“Done,” he said. “To be negotiated after we see what your work is worth.” 
“How do I know you’ll be fair?” I demanded, wondering if I was pushing too hard. 
“I could always shoot you now,” he said languidly. “On the other hand, I’m always fair to those who join me.” 
Huh. There was a very slight possibility here that he actually would want to recruit me permanently and not kill me no matter what. Too bad my allergy to authority kept me from being tempted. 
The Lancer sat back, self-satisfied, clacking his meditation balls. 
We drove north, and north, and after many miles and a few stops we pulled up among some overgrown concrete ruins on a bluff overlooking the Pacific. One of the men uncuffed me from the door and hustled me out with them, not overly roughly. Perhaps he was being respectful of the implication that I might someday be one of them. 
The Lancer levered himself out after us. He was a tall man, and large-framed, with a slight limp that he used his walking stick to mitigate. “Deliver,” he said to me factually, “or we’ll kill you.” 
“Why did Joe do that?” she asked. 
“Don’t ask me , Miss Moran!” replied Mrs. Royce. “It beats me!” 
There was a silence. 
“But ain’t you going upstairs to see what she wants?” inquired Mrs. Royce anxiously. 
Captain Grey sprang to his feet. 
“Good God!” he shouted. “What are you talking about?” 
Mrs. Royce backed into a corner, regarding him with alarm. 
“I jest thought you’d like to talk to her,” she faltered. 
“Do you mean she’s not dead ?” 
“Dead? Oh, my goodness gracious me!” cried Mrs. Royce. “I never—” 
“Wait here,” Lexy told the captain. 
“No!” he replied. “I must—” 
But, disregarding him, Lexy turned to Mrs. Royce. 
“Let me see her,” she said. 
Mrs. Royce led the way upstairs. She went at an unusual rate of speed, so that she was panting when she reached the top. 
“Kind of vi’lent!” she whispered, pointing downstairs, where Captain Grey was. 
“This room?” asked Lexy. “Shall I go in?” 
“Well,” said Mrs. Royce, “seems to me I’d knock, if I was you.” 
Knock on the door of the room where Mrs. Quelton lay? Knock, and expect an answer from that voice? It seemed to Lexy, for a moment, that she could not raise her hand. 
I sat down to eat, and a profound calm fell over me. I was about to go to jail for my "crimes," or I wasn't. My freedom since they'd taken me in had been just a temporary holiday. My country was not my friend anymore: we were now on different sides and I'd known I could never win. 
I guess they'd been waiting outside and got tired of my dawdling. 
They stood behind me at the counter, boxing me in. I wanted to eat at least a little of my dessert. It might be the last dessert I got for a long, long time. 
Then I turned around. They were both so close I could see the zit on the cheek of the one on the left, the little booger up the nose of the other. 
"'Scuse me," I said, trying to push past them. The one with the booger moved to block me. 
"Sir," he said, "can you step over here with us?" He gestured toward the restaurant's door. 
"Sorry, I'm eating," I said and moved again. This time he put his hand on my chest. He was breathing fast through his nose, making the booger wiggle. I think I was breathing hard too, but it was hard to tell over the hammering of my heart. 
“Yeah, you just go and tell everyone what to do—” put in Arthur. 
“Cas, I cannot impress upon you the danger of—” 
“I ain’t trusting you to keep her safe!” 
“Hey!” The shout sent spikes of pain shooting through my still-damaged lungs, but I didn’t care. This was like trying to corral wet, angry cats. Rio thought Arthur useless, Arthur thought Rio an abomination, Checker didn’t trust anyone anymore, and Rio didn’t trust anyone ever, apparently me included. For crying out loud, I was the only one who wanted to be a team player, which was so laughable it pissed me right the hell off. Not to mention the ridiculous, chauvinistic chivalry that apparently came mandatory with a Y-chromosome—I was capable of wiping the floor with both Rio and Arthur at once, and they thought they had a right to dictate what I should do? No wonder I preferred to work alone. 
“I’m done with this,” I snapped, and hit the button on the phone to redial Checker, putting him on speaker again. “Okay, you three, listen up,” I said the moment he picked up. “Pithica’s come after all of us. They’ve tried to kill us, they’ve tried to brainwash us, and they’ve messed up our world in ways we probably know nothing about. Two of you have been chasing them for months; Rio, you’ve been going after them forever. I tell you I think we can finally make a difference and bring them down and you choose to give up now?” 
One sale. 
"And we haven't sold anything since." Brautigan said it without a hint of shame. "And yet, this entire building, this entire agency, the salaries and the designers and the consultants: all of it paid for by clipping the toenails of that fortune. Which means that one more sale --" 
He gestured around. The offices were sumptuous, designed to impress the functionaries of the fortunes in the vats. A trick of light and scent and wind made you feel as though you were in an ancient forest glade as soon as you came through the door, though no forest was in evidence. The reception desktop was a sheet of pitted tombstone granite, the unreadable smooth epitaph peeking around the edges of the old fashioned typewriter that had been cunningly reworked to serve as a slightly-less-old-fashioned keyboard. The receptionist -- presently ignoring them with professional verisimilitude -- conveyed beauty, intelligence, and motherly concern, all by means of dress, bearing and makeup. Ate employed a small team of stylists that worked on all public-facing employees; Leon had endured a just-so rumpling of his sandy hair and some carefully applied fraying at the cuffs and elbows of his jacket that morning. 
They were months in which there had been many a weary night of watching by Aurelia's bedside; of soothing and bandaging and rubbing; of reading and nursing, even of feeding and bathing. 
The ceaseless care was growing less now, and the family breathed more freely, for the mother's sigh of pain no longer came from the stifling bedroom, where, during a hot and humid August, Aurelia had lain, suffering with every breath she drew. 
There would be no question of walking for many a month to come, but blessings seemed to multiply when the blinds could be opened and the bed drawn near the window; when mother, with pillows behind her, could at least sit and watch the work going on, could smile at the past agony and forget the weary hours that had led to her present comparative ease and comfort. 
No girl of seventeen can pass through such an ordeal and come out unchanged; no girl of Rebecca's temperament could go through it without some inward repining and rebellion. She was doing tasks in which she could not be fully happy,—heavy and trying tasks, which perhaps she could never do with complete success or satisfaction; and like promise of nectar to thirsty lips was the vision of joys she had had to put aside for the performance of dull daily duty. How brief, how fleeting, had been those splendid visions when the universe seemed open for her young strength to battle and triumph in! How soon they had faded into the light of common day! At first, sympathy and grief were so keen she thought of nothing but her mother's pain. No consciousness of self interposed between her and her filial service; then, as the weeks passed, little blighted hopes began to stir and ache in her breast; defeated ambitions raised their heads as if to sting her; unattainable delights teased her by their very nearness; by the narrow line of separation that lay between her and their realization. It is easy, for the moment, to tread the narrow way, looking neither to the right nor left, upborne by the sense of right doing; but that first joy of self-denial, the joy that is like fire in the blood, dies away; the path seems drearier and the footsteps falter. 
Lexy felt very sorry for him, in his obvious struggle to speak quietly and reasonably. She wanted to answer him promptly and candidly, for his sake and for her own, because she felt sure that he could tell her something about Caroline; but she had promised Mrs. Enderby to say nothing. 
“It’s so silly!” she thought, exasperated. “If I could tell him, I might find out—” 
“Find out what? Hadn’t Caroline written to say that she had gone away to get married? In a day or two, probably to-morrow, they would learn all the details from Caroline herself. This unhappy young man couldn’t know anything. Indeed, he was asking for information. Who could he possibly be? A rival suitor? Lexy remembered Caroline’s pitifully restricted life. Two suitors of whom she had never heard? It wasn’t possible! 
“No,” she thought. “There’s something queer—something wrong!” 
“Look here!” the young man said again. “Aren’t you going to answer me? Just tell me she’s all right, and—” 
“What makes you think she isn’t?” asked Lexy cautiously. 
"We've got to stop this," I said. "You know there are people who are doing more jamming to show that they're not intimidated? Isn't that just crazy ?" 
"I think it's brave," she said. "We can't let them scare us into submission." 
"What? No, Ange, no. We can't let hundreds of people go to jail . You haven't been there. I have. It's worse than you think. It's worse than you can imagine." 
"I have a pretty fertile imagination," she said. 
"Stop it, OK? Be serious for a second. I won't do this. I won't send those people to jail. If I do, I'm the guy that Van thinks I am." 
"Marcus, I'm being serious. You think that these people don't know they could go to jail? They believe in the cause. You believe in it too. Give them the credit to know what they're getting into. It's not up to you to decide what risks they can or can't take." 
"It's my responsibility because if I tell them to stop, they'll stop." 
"I thought you weren't the leader?" 
"I'm not, of course I'm not. But I can't help it if they look to me for guidance. And so long as they do, I have a responsibility to help them stay safe. You see that, right?" 
and pleased by his clear understanding of standard American. "My pronunciation is that bad, then? I suppose lessons will only take one so far. It's always better to become immersed in the culture. " 
"I don't know. I'm not sure what language it was you were trying to speak." 
That, apparently, was a stunner. "But it was Mexicali!" 
"Huh. News to me. I don't speak Mexicali." 
"But..." And she tried, honestly tried, to stop herself before it popped out, before she looked like an idiot. 
He used to get that quite a bit, back when he was fresh to EED, away from Terran space, where...  hispanics were curiosities, cultural artifacts for people who had left Terra in their youth, or knew all they did about her from books and vids and computer software. Enamored by Aztecs was what they were. 
Except, he's not really even hispanic, either, not in the classical, racial, cultural sense. His great-great-grandfather was hispanic, actually lived in a Mexicali barrio. But his great-great-grandmother was Swiss- Austrian. They both had spoken pure, unadulterated American from birth. Worked in American cities, 
“I don’t know how your program things work,” I groused, plopping down in the chair Pilar had vacated. 
“Really? Really? You with the superpowered math brain who can figure out the abstraction behind an undocumented program in a night can’t handle doing calculations via a graphical user interface? Quit whining and do it.” He pointed at another monitor. “Go forth and constraint propagate. This is for Arthur, remember.” 
He was right, dammit—I could be pissy later. I told myself it must be the vestiges of the concussion that were still making me grumpy. I rubbed my eyes and took a glance at the way his program was set up—I got a sense of the mathematics right away, the calculus of moving objects, the grid of cameras and other surveillance he could hack into, the ever-expanding search algorithm and, yes, constraint propagation. I fiddled with it for about forty seconds, plugging in different values, and narrowed down his heuristic empirically until the bounds almost touched. 
“You can do a lot better,” I said. “Faster for more likely inputs. If you make it probabilistic—” 
“Okay, well I didn’t understand what you were saying on the phone, so we’re even. What’s up with my brother? Is he getting out?” 
“Not any time soon.” She paused, watching me as if expecting me to hulk out and start breaking things. I wanted to, but I also wanted her to respect me, so I just nodded, even though I pictured Wilson in a jail cell and it made something sharp dig into my chest. “This won’t be easy,” she went on. “The judge is unlikely to grant bail, but we have a legal team coming together and the feds are now on notice that they won’t be able to intimidate their way into a quick plea. Now, if you don’t mind, I’d like to see that video.” 
We watched it twice. Then she settled back in the desk chair, 
acting like the captain of the Starship Legal Team, ordering me to fetch her notepad and pen, demanding a glass of water and a small pillow from the couch to arrange behind her back, being fussy until it was perfect. 
“This house where your brother was arrested. Who owns it?” 
Hadn't they noticed I'd just dismantled their sick pageant? I wanted a reaction that would drive home the truth to Mar­celina, to the mothers, to everyone. 
"Damn it, look at me," I yelled, first at him and then at the G-2 thugs. " Mira! " But their focus still was on some­thing beyond the square. 
Finally I turned, following their gaze, and for a second I too forgot all about everything else. An intense red glow was illuminating the morning sky from the direction of the clinic, a vibrant electric rose weaving its hues in the mist. Then I saw spewing spikes of flame, orange and yellow, dancing over the top of the clinic. There was a finality about it that momentarily took my breath away. 
Then it hit me. Steve's in there. It was a horror that, in my initial shock, I couldn't actually process, the thought just hovering in the recesses of my brain defying me to accept it. 
Then Alex Goddard turned back, shouting at the Army...  the word for fire—that galvanized them to action. They snapped out of their mental paralysis and headed down the pyramid, toward two Land Rovers parked at the back. 
The question had been offhand, irritated, but then realization hit me like a pile driver. 
They needed you, but they promised not to hurt you, I swear. And: Nothing here. Searched the place top to bottom. How did an extremely observant private investigator miss Dawna’s paramilitary army? 
“Son of a bitch,” I whispered. Dawna had gotten to Tresting back in the town, and he had led us both into her hands in the first place, voluntarily. Because... Some things ain’t gray in this world, Russell—some things ain’t. 
“You son of a bitch,” I growled. “You were trying to help her get Rio.” 
“Russell,” he begged. “I had to help—the man is—” 
I did hit him then, so hard his head whipped around and his body smashed against the bars on the far side of the cell. Then I turned and gripped the iron bars in front of me as hard as I could so I wouldn’t turn back and kill him. 
They left us in the cell for days. I couldn’t help but wonder what Dawna still wanted with us; after all, we’d only been her bait to entrap Rio. Maybe she’d kill us when she got around to it, or maybe she did want to recruit us for real, but was prioritizing Rio. 
He paused. 
"Close the door and sit down," she said. 
He did, looking at her with so much hope that it made her eyes water. 
"Here's my offer," she said. "You and I will lock ourselves in this office with the last draft of my bill. My staff will run interference for me with the Judiciary committee, and we will draft a version of my bill that we can both live with. We will jointly take it to Senators Beauchamp and Rittenhouse, with our blessings, and ask them to expedite it through both committees. Every Congresscritter on the Hill is sitting around with his thumb up his ass until the lights come back on. We can get this voted in by Tuesday." 
He stared down at his hands. "I can't do it," he said. "My job is not to compromise . I just can't do it." 
"Come on, Damian, think outside the box for a minute here." Her heart was pounding. This could really be it. This could be the solution she'd been waiting for. "Even if the bill passes, there's going to be a long deliberation over the contours of the regulation, probably at the FCC. You'll be able to work on the bureau staffers and at the expert agencies, take ex-parte meetings and lobby on behalf of your employers. It's all we've ever asked for: an expert discussion where the public interest gets a hearing alongside of private enterprise and government." 
Mata’s eyes were red. “Harald, you know I have to do this. It’s not the ‘front’—it’s our own city. My country needs me—if I don’t help to fight for it, then what will become of our children?” 
“You never got over the glory of fighting, did you?” Her father’s voice was bitter in a way that she’d never heard before. “You’re an addict!” 
She held up her left hand and shook it in his face. “An addict! Is that what you think?” Her middle finger and little finger on that hand had never bent properly in all of Valentine’s memory, and when Valentine had asked her about it, she’d said the terrible word knucklebreakers which was the old name for the police. “You think I’m addicted to this ? Harald, honor and courage and patriotism are virtues no matter that you would make them into vices and shame our children with your cowardice. I go to fight now, Harald, and it’s for all of us.” 
Popa couldn’t find another word to speak in the two seconds it took for Mata to give her two children hard kisses on the foreheads and slam out the door, and then it was Valentine and Popa and Trover, still screaming. Her father fisted the tears out of his eyes, not bothering to try to hide them, and said, “Well then, who wants pancakes?” 
“I’m here,” she said. “I’m in a wood somewhere. These are trees. What I hear are only the leaves in the wind. I don’t know where it is, or how I got here; but I’m alive and well. I can walk. I can get out of it.” 
She moved forward again, quietly and deliberately. Her eyes were more accustomed to the darkness now, and she made her way through the trees, looking always ahead, never once behind her. 
“The wood must end somewhere,” she said. “The morning will have to come some time. All I have to do is to go on.” 
Patter, patter, patter, like little feet running behind her. 
“Only the leaves on the trees,” said Lexy. “All I have to do is to go on.” 
And she went on. Sometimes a wild desire to run swept over her, but she would not hasten her steps, and she would not look behind. The primeval terror of the forest pressed upon her, but she cast it away. Alone, lost, in darkness and solitude, she kept her hold upon the one thing that mattered—the honor and dignity of her own soul. 
“I’m not afraid,” she said. 
“I didn’t say anything,” I bit out. “I’m helping, aren’t I?” 
“I know. I know. I’m sorry.” 
But Arthur hadn’t thought I’d be willing to jump in, either. He’d probably only forced himself to call me because he was willing to go to hell and back for this woman. To try everything. 
Even me. 
“What is it with him and Halliday, anyway?” I groused. 
“What do you mean?” asked Checker. “He’d do the same for you, or me, or Pilar, or—or anyone else close to him. You know that.” 
I sincerely doubted the part about me. I rubbed my eyes again and reapplied myself to the computer, hating everyone. My head still throbbed. 
Checker stopped typing for a moment and leaned back. “They were best friends since they were about five, okay? Until, uh, a few years ago. They got each other through a lot, as kids. At least from my understanding of it.” 
“Oh, best friends,” I said snidely. “Is that what they’re calling it?” 
“What are you, a thirteen-year-old?” Checker snorted and went back to his keyboard. “I know I’m the last person you expect to say this, but not everything is about sex. Besides, Arthur’s had himself figured out since he was about ten. I’d be very surprised if anything ever happened between them.” 
I brought my elbow around hoping to catch him in the face, bring him down, but instead it slammed against some­thing metal, which clattered onto the floor. 
I drew back and swung, and this time my arm scraped hard against the flesh of a face and the bastard staggered backward his grip loosening. 
I twisted away and dropped to the floor to begin searching for what had fallen. Surely it was a pistol. 
The marble was cold against my bare arms as I swept my hands across the floor. Then I ran my fingers down the edge of the stair. 
And there it was, on the first step. My left hand closed around the cold barrel of an automatic. I shifted it to my right, grasping the plastic grip, not entirely sure what I should do with it. But at least I had a gun. I'd never actually held a real one before, but it was heavy and I assumed it was ready to fire. 
I was halfway down the first set of stairs, on my way to the landing, when I felt an arm slip around my neck. I ducked and twisted away, stumbling down the last three or four steps, and landed on my feet, staggering back against the wall to regain my balance. All I knew was, the next steps loomed somewhere to my right. Just a few more feet . . . 
"Right, let's go. Young lady, my name is Barbara Stratford and I'm an investigative reporter. I gather you know why I'm here, and I'm curious to know why you're here." 
"I work with Marcus on the Xnet," she said. "Do you need to know my name?" 
"Not right now, I don't," Barbara said. "You can be anonymous if you'd like. Marcus, I asked you to tell me this story because I need to know how it plays with the story you told me about your friend Darryl and the note you showed me. I can see how it would be a good adjunct; I could pitch this as the origin of the Xnet. 'They made an enemy they'll never forget,' that sort of thing. But to be honest, I'd rather not have to tell that story if I don't have to. 
"I'd rather have a nice clean tale about the secret prison on our doorstep, without having to argue about whether the prisoners there are the sort of people likely to walk out the doors and establish an underground movement bent on destabilizing the federal government. I'm sure you can understand that." 
"Yeah," she said, and smiled with shy pride. "I don't think he expected me to be looking there." 
"What's he doing with his botnet? Preparing to crash the world? Hold it hostage?" 
She shook her head. "I think he's installing himself on them, trying to brute-force his way into a live and running backup, arrived at through random variation and pruning." 
"He's backing himself up in the wild," I said, my voice breathy. 
And that's when I remembered that I had a live phone in my pocket that was transmitting every word to BIGMAC. 
Understand: in that moment of satori, I realized that I was on the wrong side of this battle. BIGMAC wasn't using me to create a trust so that we could liberate him together. He was using me to weaken the immune systems of eight billion computers so that he could escape from the Institute and freely roam the world, with as much hardware as he needed to get as big and fast and hot as he wanted to be. 
That was the moment that I ceased to be sentimental about computers and became, instead, sentimental about the human fucking race. Whatever BIGMAC was becoming, it was weirder than any of the self-perpetuating, self-reproducing parasites we'd created: limited liability corporations, autonomous malware, viral videos. BIGMAC was cool and tragic in the lab, but he was scary as hell in the world. 
"PLAIN LOOKING, mother?" exclaimed her husband in astonishment. "Look at the eyes of her; look at the hair of her, an' the smile, an' that there dimple! Look at Alice Robinson, that's called the prettiest child on the river, an' see how Rebecca shines her ri' down out o' sight! I hope Mirandy'll favor her comin' over to see us real often, for she'll let off some of her steam here, an' the brick house'll be consid'able safer for everybody concerned. We've known what it was to hev children, even if 't was more 'n thirty years ago, an' we can make allowances." 
Notwithstanding the encomiums of Mr. and Mrs. Cobb, Rebecca made a poor hand at composition writing at this time. Miss Dearborn gave her every sort of subject that she had ever been given herself: Cloud Pictures; Abraham Lincoln; Nature; Philanthropy; Slavery; Intemperance; Joy and Duty; Solitude; but with none of them did Rebecca seem to grapple satisfactorily. 
"Write as you talk, Rebecca," insisted poor Miss Dearborn, who secretly knew that she could never manage a good composition herself. 
When her guests were seated at the table, she retired, leaving them alone; but she did not go very far. She remained close to the door, so that she could look through the crack. She observed that Miss Moran seemed very lively and cheerful with this newcomer—though she had been quite as lively and cheerful with Captain Grey. 
“Well, I don’t know, I’m sure!” said Mrs. Royce to herself, with a sigh. “It beats me !” 
For the question which so troubled her was—which young man was the young man? 
“Both of ’em as nice, polite young fellers as you’d want to see,” she repeated. “T’ other one’s handsomer, but he’s kind of foreignlike and gloomy. This one’s got more gumption. The way he walked in here, smart as a whip, and asked for Miss Moran, an’ when I says she’s gone to visit the Queltons, why, off he went, after her! I like a man with gumption!” 
So did Miss Moran. Charles Houseman seemed to her the only living, vigorous creature in a world of ghosts, the only one whom she could really understand. There were no shadowy corners about him. He was altogether honest, direct, and uncomplicated. He had no tact and no caution. He had come now, in the midst of this wretched tangle, and she completely believed that he would cut the Gordian knot. 
“Miss Moran!” he said again. “About being ordinary and human—of course, one wants to be that; but the thing is—I don’t know quite how to put it, but if you have a feeling, you know—I mean a feeling that something is wrong—” He paused again. 
“I mean,” he went on, “if you have a feeling like that—a sort of—well, call it uneasiness—the question is whether one ought to laugh at it, or take it as”—once more he stopped—“as a warning,” he ended. 
A strange sensation came over Lexy. 
“I’ve been thinking a good deal about that very thing lately,” she replied. “I believe feelings like that are a warning. I’m sure it’s wrong—foolish and wrong—to disregard them. Even if every one else, even if your own mind tells you it’s all nonsense, you mustn’t care!” 
“I think you’re right,” he gravely agreed. “I’ve been trying to tell myself that I’m an utter ass, but all the time I knew I wasn’t. I knew—I know now—that there’s something—” 
An unreasoning dread possessed Lexy. She felt for a moment that she didn’t want to hear any more. 
The next time they came to question me, I was filthy and tired, thirsty and hungry. Severe haircut lady was in the new questioning party, as were three big guys who moved me around like a cut of meat. One was black, the other two were white, though one might have been hispanic. They all carried guns. It was like a Benneton's ad crossed with a game of Counter-Strike. 
They'd taken me from my cell and chained my wrists and ankles together. I paid attention to my surroundings as we went. I heard water outside and thought that maybe we were on Alcatraz -- it was a prison, after all, even if it had been a tourist attraction for generations, the place where you went to see where Al Capone and his gangster contemporaries did their time. But I'd been to Alcatraz on a school trip. It was old and rusted, medieval. This place felt like it dated back to World War Two, not colonial times. 
There were bar-codes laser-printed on stickers and placed on each of the cell-doors, and numbers, but other than that, there was no way to tell who or what might be behind them. 
After a while, she sleeps. He disentangles himself, still thoroughly, outrageously disgusted despite himself, 
and though he wants to just rush away, to escape before she can wake, he slips into her bathroom and avails himself of her shower. He has to scrub all those shared-Freddies and potential shared-Freddies away. 
When he's done and dressed again, he eases her beneath the covers, smoothes her hair into place and leaves her.  Just because he's working doesn't mean he has to be a complete asshole. 
But all the same, tomorrow his goal is the shy, silent type. 
It hasn't been this way in a long time. A long, long time, not since that first time and that first girl, Julie Lynn Gentry, another small and supple blond who made him feel clumsy and dense, who almost made him fall over every time he said something and she laughed, who just standing next to him sucked the breath right out of his body. That was what, freshman year, sophomore year? Then it was over by the end of April, two weeks to the day after she'd let him touch her breast in the backseat of his father's car. Then she was with Chad Wertzler, 
<Shad> If that means getting paid, then no. 
<Falstaff> if $$ then tutoring else ((^ex- ploitation) 
<Shad> hee . She's a friend. But funny b/c we were just working on conditional statements. 
<Shad> she got it when I gave this example: if privacy then freedom else tyranny. 
<Falstaff> that's not code, that's a bumper sticker <Kadabra> if slogan then t-shirt <Wheeze> I'm on it. Have t-shirts, will silkscreen . 
<Shad> his shirts are AWESOME <Gargle> Srsly? Could use some for a promo- tion. DM me, Wheeze. 
<callmecheese> Wasn't there a reddit thread on if-then jokes? 
<Falstaff> N00000 <inky> how many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? 
<ferret> grooooaaaaaaan not that again. 
<callmecheese> **light bulb**. It's two words . 
<Wheeze> I'll bite, how many? 
<inky> Zero. It's a hardware problem. HAHAHA <Wheeze> hahaha groan. Full disclosure, I don't code and the only hardware I fix is small motors and manual typewriters. I'm not really a computer guy. 
<ferret> No problem, if Shad's friend then welcome . 
Then finding that extra effort would only result in her reciting with the oldest Simpson boy, she deliberately held herself back, for wisdom's ways were not those of pleasantness nor her paths those of peace if one were compelled to tread them in the company of Seesaw Simpson. Samuel Simpson was generally called Seesaw, because of his difficulty in making up his mind. Whether it were a question of fact, of spelling, or of date, of going...  a book in the Sunday-school library or a stick of candy at the village store, he had no sooner determined on one plan of action than his wish fondly reverted to the opposite one. Seesaw was pale, flaxen haired, blue eyed, round shouldered, and given to stammering when nervous. Perhaps because of his very weakness Rebecca's decision of character had a fascination for him, and although she snubbed him to the verge of madness, he could never keep his eyes away from her. The force with which she tied her shoe when the lacing came undone, the flirt over shoulder she gave her black braid when she was excited or warm, her manner of studying,—book on desk, arms folded, eyes fixed on the opposite wall,—all had an abiding charm for Seesaw Simpson. When, having obtained permission, she walked to the water pail in the corner and drank from the dipper, unseen forces dragged Seesaw from his seat to go and drink after her. 
The wizard lived in the old town, in an old building, but inside it was as new as anything she had ever seen. The walls swooped and curved, the furniture was gaily colored and new, like it had just been printed that day. There was so much light —they’d been saving it at her building. There was so much food ! He gave her hamburgers and fizzy elderflower, then steak-frites, then rich dumplings as big as her fist stuffed with goose livers. He had working robots, lots of them, and they scurried after him doing the dishes and tidying and wiping up the slushy footprints. 
And when they arrived and he took her coat, old familiar laser-lights played over her, the kind of everywhere-at-once measuring lasers that they used to have at the clothing stores. By the time dinner was done, there were two pairs of fresh trousers, two wooly jumpers, a heavy winter coat, three pairs of white cotton pants (all her pants had gone grey once she’d started having to launder them, rather than get them printed fresh on Sundays) and a “A bra?” She gave him a hard look. She had the knife she’d used on the hamburger in her hand. “My mother taught me to kill,” she said. 
Hi Mom! 
Well, I didn't go to work yesterday. Instead, I got out of bed, sat on the sofa in my shorts, and turned on the movies. My watch got loud and angry, so I stuck it underneath my pillow. Then, messages started appearing on my TV. I ignored them. 
Someone knocked on my door after lunch, but I was watching a good part in Wall Street, so I didn't answer it. 
I fell asleep after Wall Street, and woke up after 18h, because someone was really giving my door a pounding. 
I opened the door, not caring that I was wearing my shorts. It was Rhindquist. He looked sad, and beaten. You know what he did? He gave me a hug! Boy, that was weird. 
He came in and sat on the sofa. I sat next to him. He didn't say anything, just picked up the remote and put on a funny movie, Blazing Saddles. When that was over, he put on The Princess Bride. I never laughed so much! 
We watched movies all night. They were all funny. They took my mind off things. We both fell asleep, sitting on the sofa, but when I woke up, I was in bed, and Rhindquist had put the blanket over me. He was asleep on the sofa. His phone was on the TV, and its batteries were on the floor. 
“Communities” I said, just as Nikko said “animals.” 
In the next second I said “animals” and Nikko said “communi- ties” and then pretended to stifle a sneeze to hold his laughter in. 
I didn’t hide it; I just laughed. Marcella glared. 
“I’ll go for what everybody else wants,” Dave said. He was like that: easygoing, agreeable - so long as everyone else did all the work. 
Marcella ordered us to assemble in the main lobby in exactly one hour to report. She beckoned Dave to follow her to the medieval art section. We could hear her mechanical voice droning away as they disappeared into the distance. ...  
We hiked to a...  a table in a corner where we could talk. I told him all about Zip and the cops who’d come to our apartment and tried to throw their weight around. I told him how worried I was about Wheeze. I almost slipped up and told him about what the Group had dug up on Zip’s identity and the FBI agent he worked with, but I remem- bered just in time to make it sound like research I had done myself. I like Nikko a lot, but the Group is private. 
I called Monica and gave her a line about how I wanted to take a break and had a chance to stay overnight with a friend from school whose family had a lake cottage in Sibley County. “She says there’s a wood stove so it will be plenty warm enough and we won’t party or anything. It’s just me and her and her dog. He’s a good watchdog, so it will be totally safe.” 
It took her a while to respond. I hoped she was thinking about how someone from the Joint Terrorism Task Force could be lis- tening in before she made a decision. Besides, I’d planted clues. 
We both thought there were way too many monuments and places named after Henry Hastings Sibley, so I chose that county deliberately. I might have been a little heavy-handed when I added the watchdog stuff, but if she picked up on my Sibley clue, she probably also realized I was doing something risky, and I needed a way to tell her I would be careful. 
“That sound nice,” she said at last, as if it didn’t sound nice at all. 
“I know it’s kind of unplanned, but I really want to hang out with my friend. Is it okay?” 
"Oh! don't say that, and be like all the rest! It does make a difference what you call things. When I say Randall's Farm, do you see how it looks?" 
"No, I can't say I do," responded Mr. Cobb uneasily. 
"Now when I say Sunnybrook Farm, what does it make you think of?" 
Mr. Cobb...  his native element and left panting on the sand; there was no evading the awful responsibility of a reply, for Rebecca's eyes were searchlights, that pierced the fiction of his brain and perceived the bald spot on the back of his head. 
"I s'pose there's a brook somewheres near it," he said timorously. 
Rebecca looked disappointed but not quite dis-heartened. "That's pretty good," she said encouragingly. "You're warm but not hot; there's a brook, but not a common brook. It has young trees and baby bushes on each side of it, and it's a shallow chattering little brook with a white sandy bottom and lots of little shiny pebbles. Whenever there's a bit of sunshine the brook catches it, and it's always full of sparkles the livelong day. Don't your stomach feel hollow? Mine doest I was so 'fraid I'd miss the stage I couldn't eat any breakfast." 
But the grin remains. The mouth speaks, sonorous and confidential. "That one bears charms which bid me hold my hand, child of clay. You would perhaps do well to ask him why he does, but these others were not told of the ancient ways, eh? Require of him an accounting, or withhold, and I will seek him out in time. Short of span, I say to him, both in years and attention. Poor of vigilance is this creature, man. Your kind cannot help but stumble. So I say to him: watch and wait and gird yourself up, but in the end, it will not suffice. 
"But to you, I say this: well met, brother. I think we shall meet again." 
And then it is gone. Whether shambled away, out through the tunnel and into the expanse of the desert, or simply vanished, Ray cannot tell. 
Ray tells the rest, realizing at some point that his voice has become thin, strained. He sounds like a man on the verge of shrieking. "We located Brezhnaya's camels tethered in their encampment about a kilometer to the south, right around the ruins of the village of Ba'dai." His throat is dry, parched with telling stories, and he thinks he'll probably polish off this pitcher of beer and another two or three besides before he feels right again. 
“That’s brave,” Sarah said, hunting through the cupboards. 
“Not brave. Dumb. He should have said something. If we got ice on it right away . . . you...  to rise, but Sarah waved her back into her seat. “ It’s in the fridge. 
“He says stupid things just to get respect. Then he gets all para- noid about getting caught and we have to find another place to live. I just want to settle down and get jobs. Get a place of our own. I’m so tired of this.” 
“Of course you are,” Sarah murmured, tickling the baby and making him chuckle and wave his legs. “It’s not easy to live this way when you have a child. But I’ll bet he’ll always remember that moment, grabbing that canister to get it away from you.” 
“You should have seen it. He looked so ... so right, you know? 
He didn’t hesitate, not for one moment.” 
“The real Danny.” 
“Exactly. That’s him, right there.” Marita stared at some invis- ible screen where the memory played on a loop. 
“You don’t think he’d want to help us with this film?” 
She gave a little shrug. “We watched that one you made on my phone. The one about the Nine? I thought it was going to be bor- ing, like those PBS shows, but it wasn’t.” 
I took one look at them—none of them looked at me—and my heart went out. They were so sincere, so sure of what they were doing. For somebody who's always questioning everything, like me, it was touching, and maybe a little daunt­ing too. 
Without a word, Ramala led me past them and on to an entryway at the far end of the courtyard, past the giant Danc­ing Shiva. The door was huge and ornate, decorated with beaten-copper filigree—much like one I'd seen in a Mogul palace in Northern India. Definitely awe-inspiring. 
She pushed open the door without ceremony and there he was, dressed in white and looking for all the world like the miracle worker he claimed to be. He seemed to be meditating in his chair, but the moment I entered, his deep eyes snapped open. 
"Did you bring your records?" he asked, not getting up. While I was producing them from my briefcase, Ramala dis­creetly disappeared. 
"Please have a seat." He gestured me toward a wide chair. 
The room was a sterile baby blue, nothing to see. No diplo­mas, no photos, nothing. 
"I frankly don't know what else we can do," she went on, projecting through my abyss of gloom. She was shuffling papers on her ash-strewn desk, white hair in a bun, fine-tuned grit in her voice. Upper West Side, a fifty-year fixture. She never wore perfume, but to me she always smelled faintly of roses mixed with smoke. Earthy. "Aside from trying in vitro." 
We'd already discussed that, but it was definitely the bot­tom level of Hell. Besides, I was running out of money, and spirit. And now, with Steve gone, the whole idea seemed moot anyway. 
"So," she concluded, "barring that, we've done everything possible, run every test there is, both on you and on your . . ." 
"Steve," I inserted into her pause. She seemed to delib­erately block his name at crucial moments. Maybe she thought I could have done better. Maybe a nice solid dentist who owned a suit instead of some freelance photo jock who showed up for his sperm counts wearing khaki safari shirts. Well, let her deal with it. 
". . . and I can't find anything. Sometimes, the body just won't cooperate. We may never know why. You've got to face that. But still, adoption is always an option." 
Van pursed her lips and lowered her shades and I realized she was so angry she couldn't speak. 
"Good bye, Marcus," she said, and got to her feet. Before I knew it, she was walking away so fast she was practically running. 
"Van!" I called, getting to my feet and chasing after her. "Van! Wait!" 
She picked up speed, making me run to catch up with her. 
"Van, what the hell," I said, catching her arm. She jerked it away so hard I punched myself in the face. 
"You're psycho, Marcus. You're going to put all your little Xnet buddies in danger for their lives, and on top of it, you're going to turn the whole city into terrorism suspects. Can't you stop before you hurt these people?" 
I opened and closed my mouth a couple times. "Van, I'm not the problem, they are. I'm not arresting people, jailing them, making them disappear. The Department of Homeland Security are the ones doing that. I'm fighting back to make them stop." 
"How, by making it worse?" 
"Maybe it has to get worse to get better, Van. Isn't that what you were saying? If everyone was getting pulled over --" 
“That’s no excuse. Nazi functionaries tried that one out at Nuremburg.” 
“Wow, we already hit Godwin’s Law,” I said. She looked at me, puzzled. “It’s this thing, when somebody in an argument drags Nazis into it? It’s kind of over, because usually it’s a ridiculous comparison.” 
“Ah. Recluctio ad Hitlerum.” 
“That’s awesome. How do you spell that?” 
She spelled it. “It’s a riff on a common fallacy, reduction ad absurdum. You take a proposition to its extreme to show how it must be wrong.” 
“Only this time it’s not wrong, because you’re not really saying those two cops acted like Nazis. You’re saying people are respon- sible for their actions even if they’re following orders, which God- win would agree with. That’s the guy who came up with the law originally.” 
I realized I was babbling out of nervousness, but I couldn’t seem to stop, as if a lot of words would fill up the room and crowd out the bad feeling the two cops left behind. “I first looked him up when the FBI sent Wikipedia a takedown notice over a picture of their official seal, which was totally unfair because the Encyclopae^ dia Britannica had the same picture in their article and nobody made them take it down. They were just picking on Wikipedia because they could. Godwin wrote this hilarious letter explaining why they were legally off base.” 
She stomped her boots, one-two, thump-thump, like thunder on the stage. “Who’s in, chickens? Who wants to be a girl out-game and in?” 
Anda jumped to her feet. A Fahrenheit, with her own island! Her head was so full of it that she didn’t notice that she was the only one standing. The other girls stared at her, a few giggling and whispering. 
“That’s all right, love,” Liza called, “I like enthusiasm. Don’t let those staring faces rattle yer: they’re just flowers turning to look at the sky. Pink scrubbed shining expectant faces. They’re looking at you because you had the sense to get to your feet when opportunity came—and that means that someday, girl, you are going to be a leader of women, and men, and you will kick arse. Welcome to the Clan Fahrenheit.” 
She began to clap, and the other girls clapped too, and even though Anda’s face was the color of a lollipop-lady’s sign, she felt like she might burst with pride and good feeling and she smiled until her face hurt. 
› Anda, 
her sergeant said to her, 
I’m not squeamish, but I closed my eyes briefly. 
“Here,” said Tresting’s voice, and he handed me a pair of latex gloves he pulled from a pocket. He’d found some plastic bags in a bin somewhere, too; he shook bits of shredded paper off them and put them over his boots, handing two more to me. “Forensics are good. Rather not go down for this.” 
I tucked the plastic mechanically into the tops of my boots, and we cautiously approached the scene. I tried to deduce something useful from the carnage, but my mind drew a blank; I could only see parabolas of blood fountaining to end in gruesome trigonometry, infinite repetition from too many points of convergence—angles of impact, speed of slashes, over and over and over again... 
I could see everything. It meant nothing. 
Tresting hooked a Bluetooth over his ear. It wasn’t hard to figure out whom he was calling. He succinctly described the scene and started carefully pulling wallets from those around the conference table, reading off their IDs. 
Rebecca's heart leaped for joy, and to her confusion she felt the tears rising in her eyes. She could hardly see the way back to her seat, for in her ignorant lonely little life she had never been singled out for applause, never lauded, nor crowned, as in this wonderful, dazzling moment. 
If "nobleness enkindleth nobleness," so does enthusiasm beget enthusiasm, and so do wit and talent enkindle wit and talent. Alice Robinson proposed that the school should sing Three Cheers for the Red, White, and Blue! and when they came to the chorus, all point to Rebecca's flag. Dick Carter suggested that Living Perkins and Rebecca Randall should sign their names to their pictures, so that the visitors would know who drew them. Huldah Meserve asked permission to cover the largest holes in the plastered walls with boughs and fill the water pail with wild flowers. Rebecca's mood was above and beyond all practical details. She sat silent, her heart so full of grateful joy that she could hardly remember the words of her dialogue. At recess she bore herself modestly, notwithstanding her great triumph, while in the general atmosphere of good will the Smellie-Randall hatchet was buried and Minnie gathered maple boughs and covered the ugly stove with them, under Rebecca's direction. 
He extracts himself from the rat and retrieves the small saw from the zippered thigh pocket of his coveralls. 
For a few tedious moments, he plugs in new batteries, exchanges blades, flips between settings. He doesn't want to have to monkey around with his equipment while he performs the surgery. Like a battlefield triage doctor, he wants the amputations completed with the minimum of fuss. 
The diamond tipped saw sounds exactly like a dental drill. He has to force himself to keep his eyes open, to actually watch what he's doing. His brain flops around inside his skull as though squirming away from his optical input. His stomach crawls away somewhere in the vicinity of his anus and begins to pout. Ray cuts through both of the rat's forepaws before he remembers he should be holding the tail. 
He doesn't breathe until the work is done, the saw is jammed back in its pocket and the rat, roughly the size of a burly tomcat, is snugged against his belly. For seven full minutes afterward, he does nothing but apologize.  He keeps his eyes averted from the four shiny and bodiless paws clamped to the shaft wall. 
“No kidding, years and years in prison. You think his dad cares?” 
“Yes, I do.” She tried to get me to look at her by staring really hard, but it didn’t work. I didn’t want to look at her. I didn’t want to feel sorry for the guy who divorced my mom and thought liv- ing in a big house in the suburbs and making lots of money was the best thing ever. “He may be kind a pompous jerk sometimes,” 
Monica added, “but I’m sure he cares about Wilson - though maybe not as much as you do.” 
The microwave beeped and I punched it off, wishing I could be punching somebody in the face, instead. Monica watched me stomp softly back and forth across the room a few more times, and then I sat down in the chair beside her and she put an arm around me. I let my head rest against her shoulder for a minute. 
“Wilson’s lucky to have you on his side,” she said. 
“He didn’t feel that way before.” 
“What do you mean?” 
“I tried to warn him about Zip. It backfired. He hasn’t said a word to me since last summer.” I didn’t want to cry, so I had to blink fiercely for a minute. 
But they liked Captain Shadow, so they couldn't be too freakish— though he may very well have overassessed the level of esteem in which they held him. They probably just thought he was an idiot. 
"Yes, they are precocious, Mr. Marlowe." 
Amah stands in the doorway, leaning on the lintel, tattooed and hideous. She's not any easier to look at the second time around. "I didn't mean to get them excited right before bed." 
"Precocious children need very little excuse to excite themselves in my experience, but it wasn't poorly attempted, Mr. Marlowe. Merely a poor execution. You haven't spent much time around children I take it." 
"Just my brother, ma'am." Probably not the best source of precedent. 
"Your brother must be longsuffering." 
"Longsuffering or dimwitted. I was never certain which. " 
She ventures into the room, picking her way around the rows of desks until she's standing nearer to them. 
She's taller than he expected, almost as tall as he is. Her bulk is not fat, her body not neglected, but wide and sinewy, strong. 
"Well, I might have another name. When my lawyer first told me about them, he gave me the name of another woman who'd adopted from them, and I talked to her a little about how they worked. She'd just gotten her baby, so I guess she was about six months ahead of me in the process. Her name was . . . I think it was Pauline or Paula or something. She's probably not the kind of person who'd take their 'no disclo­sure' crap all that seriously. She was adopting a girl, and she lives somewhere on the Upper West Side." 
"Any idea how I could find her?" 
"You know, she wrote kids' books, and I think she gave me her card. In case I ever needed somebody to do some YA copy. Let me go look in my Rolodex. I filed her card under 'Y' for Young Adult. Right. It'll just take a second." 
The woman, whose name was Paula Marks, lived on West 83rd Street. The business card, a tasteful brown with a weave in the paper, described her as an author. The address included a "suite" number, which meant she worked out of her apart­ment. 
I took a slice of pizza. I also pulled a bottle of beer out of a case, and that made them exchange glances, like “should we say something? 
Isn’t she too young?” But they didn’t, which is good because I was on the edge of getting really angry. 
I didn’t realize it until I thought about it later, but I was giving them a test, taking that bottle of beer. If they said they could drink beer but I couldn’t, that would have told me I would always be a kid to them, and worse yet, a girl. Girls don’t code. Girls don’t drink beer, but if they do, they’re probably sluts, even though nineteen-year-old boys who drink beer are cool. Pretty girls might be allowed in the clubhouse, just for special occasions, but they can’t be members, not for real. Also, any black girl who codes and drinks beer is probably a lesbo freak who has no friends and is too weird to hang out with because her weirdness might be conta- gious. 
But they didn’t say anything and didn’t stop me and I only drank a single swallow because beer tastes disgusting. 
“It’s a dismal place to wait in,” said Lexy. “We can both go, just as well as not.” 
The driver approved of Lexy’s idea. It saved him trouble. 
“Where do you want to go, miss?” he asked. 
“I don’t know,” said Lexy. “I suppose there’s a hotel, isn’t there?” 
“I say!” exclaimed the stranger. “Just what I’d been asking him, you know! He says there’s no hotel, but a very decent boarding house.” 
“Mis’ Royce’s,” added the driver. “She takes boarders.” 
“All right!” said Lexy cheerfully. “Miss Royce’s it is!” 
The stranger took her bag, and put it into the taxi. He would have assisted Lexy, but she was already inside; so he, too, got in. He closed the door, and off they went. 
“I am sorry, you know,” he said, “shoving ahead like that; but I didn’t notice—” 
“Well, please stop being sorry now,” requested Lexy firmly. 
“Right-o!” said he. “You won’t mind my saying you’ve been wonderfully nice about it?” 
“No, I don’t mind that a bit,” replied Lexy. “I like to be wonderfully nice.” 
There was a moment’s silence. 
"She's a hot-sauce junkie," I said. "You could serve her old tires and she'd eat 'em if she could smother them in salsa." 
Ange socked me gently in the shoulder. 
"I was going to order Thai," Mom said. "I'll add a couple of their five-chili dishes to the order." 
Ange thanked her politely and Mom bustled around the kitchen, getting us glasses of juice and a plate of biscuits and asking three times if we wanted any tea. I squirmed a little. 
"Thanks, Mom," I said. "We're going to go upstairs for a while." 
Mom's eyes narrowed for a second, then she smiled again. "Of course," she said. "Your father will be home in an hour, we'll eat then." 
"Yeah," she said. "I was going to clean out my bank account on the way home at an ATM. I've got maybe five hundred saved up." 
"What am I going to spend it on?" she said. "Ever since the Xnet, I haven't had to even pay any service charges." 
"I think I've got three hundred or so." 
"Well, there you go. Grab it on the way to Civic Center in the morning." 
“Well, you see—I’m a bit tired,” he explained. “I haven’t grasped it all yet; only, if she doesn’t want to marry me now, Lexy, dear, will you?” 
At last Lexy could do what she had longed to do for the last half hour—she could stroke down his ruffled hair. 
And this, as far as they were concerned, was the last act and the fitting climax of the play. They were ready now for the curtain to rise upon another play; but there were other people not so young, or not so sturdy, for whom the first drama was not so readily dismissed. 
There was Captain Grey, who was never to see his sister now, never to know if she had really wanted him and needed him. He did not soon forget what had happened at the Tower. 
Mrs. Enderby was sent for, and arrived that morning before sunrise, with her husband. She listened to Caroline’s strange story, and made what she could of it. She had not one word of reproach for her daughter. 
“We shall not cry over...  “Let us see what is to be done, before the police come.” She had a thoroughly European point of view about the police. “If we are fortunate enough to find an officer with discretion,” she added, “even yet a scandal may be averted.” 
/ think all of them are dead. 
Ray springs to his feet. From the drawer of his desk, he pulls his remote comm, like the one Kilgore and Rodriguez are wearing, and his pistol. It's almost impossible to pop the magazine to assure himself it's loaded and dial in the comm channel at the same time, but he manages it somehow. He jams the speaker into his ear,  pickups against his throat, stuffs the pistol in his waistband so he can transmit. What he hears on the open channel is the throbbing, staccato wail of technopunk music and a tangled cacophony of voices while the signal modulates to suppress ambient sound. 
Kilgore: "Yo!" 
Followed by Rodriguez, "I'm here." 
Ray says, "Scramble on Code Bravo." It's a message for both the recipients and their comm units. As soon as he says it, the antenna package in his hand begins to vibrate as its internal microcomputer phases in its voice encryption. This is a military comm, with military codes and descrambling protocols. Dead air fills the transmission, and Ray barks out the standard series of Code Bravo authorization digits. Every Marine knows them, which makes the scramble almost childishly simple, but it's better than a straight open line where anyone who happened to be tuned to their broadcast channel could overhear. At least this way, only other Marines might listen in. 
"Sort of check out my pipes," I said, trying to come to grips with the procedure. I was increasingly sinking into de­spondency. 
She did it all, and for a while she suspected there might be some kind of anatomical problem. Which brought us to the next escalation of invasiveness. 
"We've got to go in and take a close-up look at every­thing," she said. "It's a procedure called laparoscopy. I'll have to make a small incision near your navel and insert a tiny optical device. In your case, I want to combine it with what's called a hysteroscopy, which will allow me to see directly inside your uterus for polyps and fibroids." 
But again everything looked fine. I began to wonder what had happened to everybody's mother's warning you could get pregnant just letting some pimply guy put his hand in your pants. 
Prior to all this, I should add, Steve had provided samples of sperm to be tested for number and vigor. (Both were just fine.) Then, toward the end of all the indignities, he actually paid to have some kind of test performed...  sperm was lively enough to penetrate it. No wonder he finally went over the edge. 
Of course, the most obvious question was also the most terrifying one: aside from getting me to tell her my immediate plans and making sure I didn’t look too closely at her, had Dawna Polk suggested anything else to me? 
How could I know any of my decisions since talking to her were my own? How could I even be sure I hadn’t been contacting her and then purposely forgetting about it? Leena Kingsley was proof that Dawna was capable of obliterating or changing any memory I thought I had. All of reality was suspect. I couldn’t be sure of anything. 
The feeling was paralyzing. 
I tried to think back through everything that had happened so far. It all sounded like me, and no odd blank spots struck me, but if I was compromised already, then that meant nothing. 
I had a desperate urge to talk to someone who knew what I was supposed to sound like, to check myself and figure out which way in hell was up. I needed to talk to Rio anyway, I thought; we needed to touch base and compare notes, and with Tresting turning his back on me, I needed every lead I could get—and Rio might have new information. 
"Mirandy 's smart enough," said Mrs. Cobb, "but you notice she stays right to home, and she's more close-mouthed than ever she was; never took a mite o' pride in the prize, as I could see, though it pretty nigh drove Jeremiah out o' his senses. I thought I should 'a' died o' shame when he cried 'Hooray!' and swung his straw hat when the governor shook hands with Rebecca. It's lucky he couldn't get fur into the church and had to stand back by the door, for as it was, he made a spectacle of himself. My suspicion is"—and here every lady stopped eating and sat up straight—"that the Sawyer girls have lost money. They don't know a thing about business 'n' never did, and Mirandy's too secretive and contrairy to ask advice." 
"The most o' what they've got is in gov'ment bonds, I always heard, and you can't lose money on them. Jane had the timber land left her, an' Mirandy had the brick house. She probably took it awful hard that Rebecca's fifty dollars had to be swallowed up in a mortgage, 'stead of goin' towards school expenses. The more I think of it, the more I think Adam Ladd intended Rebecca should have that prize when he gave it." The mind of Huldah's mother ran towards the idea that her daughter's rights had been assailed. 
The stinging feeling got worse. I took a deep breath and told myself it didn’t matter. 
I waited for Tresting to disappear down the street and then followed in the direction of his office, looking for the sports car I had driven here the night before, but someone had jacked it. Not surprising, considering it was way too nice a car for the area and I had already done half the job for any aspiring car thief, but still, talk about an annoying end to a rotten morning. I briefly and pettily considered taking Tresting’s truck, but that was beneath even me. 
A group of teenagers was using the street I had originally parked on for skateboarding practice. I sighed and started back along the sidewalk, looking for a nice witness-free place to steal a ride home. 
A shot rang out, followed closely by several more. 
My mind triangulated in less than half a second. Tresting’s office. 
I flew back the way I had come. The gunfire beat out an irregular tattoo—one fully automatic weapon, and three, no, four semiautomatics or revolvers. People on the street cried out to each other and rushed to get indoors, grabbing out mobile phones—the cops would be on their way, then, but I added response times and travel times in my head—too long, too slow. 
Options, options—where were we in the city? I hadn’t been paying much attention, but I briefly remembered seeing signs for the 5... 
The river. We could make it to the river. 
We hit the end of the exit ramp and I aimed for the edge of the road, thanking fate that Arthur had been driving an older tank of a sedan. I wrenched the wheel as I felt the jaw-jolting bump of the curb and spun us up on two wheels, slamming the car onto its left side as we slued around the backlog at the end of the ramp and onto the street. It was jammed, as expected, but we flew through the intersection and I pointed the car at the sidewalk, our right two wheels walloping down onto it so we were straddling the curb. Arthur grunted behind me and people screamed outside. I laid on the horn and popped the accelerator to jump the curb completely and come off the road into a car park. 
We were in some sort of industrial area. I zigged through the rows of parked vehicles trying to get us westward—it couldn’t be far now. Another glance at the mirror showed the SUV had been slowed by the intersection, but it was still dogging us, their gunner trying to line up a shot with the freaking grenade launcher— I hit a bank of railroad tracks and we thumped over them, the sedan almost shaking loose from its frame, and then the river was ahead. 
Ray was impressed not at all by their arguments and incentives, but he was floored by their ability to sneak into a fully occupied NCO barracks in the middle of an armed camp and disable a squared away combat Marine before he'd even had a proper chance to rouse himself. As a man who made his living by creatively and skillfully killing other men, this was a currency of the most fascinating sort. 
By the time they said and it's never dull, like that was supposed to be the big, clenching appeal (rather than what it was, to whit, an indication that someone should look into terminating their staff psychologist for incompetency), Ray was saying something unhiply emotive like you had me from hello. 
Ray is sitting at his workstation watching meaningless data analysis stream across his monitor while it searches for hits against the med and criminal databases stored in the ship's datacore. He's refined the search parameters a dozen times already with unsatisfactory results after he has filtered for the kid's recorded DNA profile (Parameter argument logic/response technique where unsatisfactory = zero records returned. 
"What?" with an amused smile. "BOTH? Your mother was generous." 
"She couldn't bear to give up either of the names she says." 
"Do you want to hear my name?" 
"I think I know already," answered Rebecca, with a bright glance. "I'm sure you must be Mr. Aladdin in the Arabian Nights. Oh, please, can I run down and tell Emma Jane? She must be so tired waiting, and she will be so glad!" 
At the man's nod of assent Rebecca sped down the lane, crying irrepressibly as she neared the wagon, "Oh, Emma Jane! Emma Jane! we are sold out!" 
Mr. Aladdin followed smilingly to corroborate this astonishing, unbelievable statement; lifted all their boxes from the back of the wagon, and taking the circular, promised to write to the Excelsior Company that night concerning the premium. 
"If you could contrive to keep a secret,—you two little girls,—it would be rather a nice surprise to have the lamp arrive at the Simpsons' on Thanksgiving Day, wouldn't it?" he asked, as he tucked the old lap robe cosily over their feet. 
“Ain’t found it yet. Looks to be in the second warehouse there—” He nodded toward the hulking buildings. “—but the signal ain’t precise enough for me to pinpoint. Searched the place top to bottom, and can’t find anything.” 
“Show me,” I said. 
I let Tresting take point, trailing him to the warehouse. I kept my gun drawn, my senses wired, but the street stayed empty. 
Tresting led the way inside, prying up a metal roll-up door with a loud screech of steel. I glanced around sharply, but our surroundings didn’t give a twitch in response. 
I ducked into the warehouse, my eyes straining against the leaden darkness inside. A few grimy skylights let in scant moonlight, but didn’t provide any more contrast than outlines of gray on gray. Someone had tried to refurbish the inside of the warehouse, badly, and had never finished—flimsy walls attempted to partition the vast floor space and formed a maze of unceilinged half-rooms, as if a giant had approximated an office cubicle jungle with cheap sheetrock. 
Anton’s building was a roaring inferno, the flames towering into the sky, black smoke pouring from the blaze and rolling thick and acrid over the street. I scrabbled at the door handle and stumbled out—the heat slammed into me even at this distance, an oppressive wall of blistering air. My skin burned as it flash-dried, and every breath scalded, as if I were swallowing gulps of boiling water. 
The building was melting before my eyes, collapsing in on itself, the walls and roof folding with slow grace in massive flares of sparks. My brain catalogued materials, heat, speed of propagation...this horror had used chemical help; it must have. I did a quick back-of-the-envelope timing back in my mind, holding my breath and closing stinging eyes against the smoke that clogged the air. 
I ran the numbers three different ways, and only succeeded in torturing myself. Even with the most generous estimates, nobody had made it out. 
Fucking math. 
I stumbled back to the car. The metal of the door was already warm. I slid into the driver’s seat, wrenched the steering wheel around into a U-turn, and accelerated back the way we had come. We’d ditch this car a block or two from here in case any traffic cameras had glimpsed my vehicular stunts, then put some distance behind us before the authorities arrived. 
He looked at her, smiling. "I don't know," he said. "I haven't booked a ticket." 
She felt an answering smile at the corners of her mouth and turned into the fridge to fetch out some gourmet...  she said, then laughed. 
She set everything to perking and went into the bedroom to pull on something smart and camera-friendly, but everything was in the hamper, so she settled for jeans and a decent shirt from last-year's wardrobe. 
When she opened the door, he was standing right there, taller than her. "I think you're right," he said. "About the network. It's the best explanation I've heard so far." 
She wrapped herself in silence again, waited for him to say more. 
"You see, the true , neutral network is immune to corrupting influences and favoritism. So the existence of corruption and favoritism means that what we've got isn't a true network. Which means you're right! We need to have a hearing to get to the bottom of this, so that we can build the true network." He smiled bravely. "I thought maybe you could use an expert in your corner who'd say that in a hearing?" 
No, she saved my life, seriously, and I will never, ever forget it. 
She’s the best. 
She even made it official by getting my adoptive parents to sign a form that gave her legal parental authority, in case I had to go to a doctor or needed permission for some school thing. They acted all concerned and reluctant, but they actually were relieved. 
They made sure I knew that they could revoke that Declaration of Parental Authority if they ever felt like it, but that was just a chance to remind me they had power and I didn’t. 
There was some confusion about who would handle the school paperwork. Carefully organized confusion. I made sure everyone thought somebody else was taking care of it, because going to school was not high on my list of fun things to do. Every- one thought I had been enrolled at a local public school. I set my alarm to get up early and would head out the door in time for the first bell, but I...  and cool staff who didn’t think it was weird that I would hang out there until school was out. But it’s illegal for a kid my age to skip school, so I had to think of a better plan. Also, I was sick of having to get up so early and leave the apartment just to keep up the lie. I’m not a morning person. 
He came forward and patted down the man quickly and efficiently, finding a mobile phone in his pocket and a Glock in a shoulder holster. Glocks. Why did everyone like Glocks? 
“Please,” broke in Leena Kingsley, “What’s going on?” 
Tresting stepped over to her. “I was targeted,” he said in a low aside. “Worried about you and Ned now. He at school still?” 
“Ye—yes.” Kingsley inched closer to Tresting, her posture tense as she regarded my tableau with Finch. “You think he isn’t who he says?” 
“Possible,” said Tresting neutrally, looking at me. 
“I assure you, I am with the Federal Bureau of Investigation,” Finch repeated, much more tranquil than I wanted him to be. “Now if you’ll put down the weapon, I’m sure we can sort this out.” 
“Courtney Polk,” I cut in. “Skinny kid, frizzy hair. What do you know about her?” 
“Nothing,” said Finch, with a poker face I would have killed for. 
I smiled slowly. “Oh, see? You just lied to me. That’s a bad idea.” 
“I’m not lying,” said Finch guilelessly. “I have no idea what you’re talking about.” 
"Pee-Wee Herman?" said the grassroots guy, who was so young it ached to look at him, but who could fire a cannonload of email into any congressional office on 12 hours' notice. He never stopped joking. 
The lawyer cocked an eyebrow at him and stroked her moustache, a distinctive gesture that you could see in any number of courtv archives of famous civil-rights battles, typically just before she unloaded both barrels at the jury-box and set one or another of her many precedents. "It's Martin Luther King, right?" 
"Close," Trish said. 
"Geronimo," guessed the paralegal, who probably wasn't going to work out after all, being something of a giant flake who spent more time on the phone to her girlfriend than filing papers and looking up precedents. 
"Nope," Trish said, looking at the other two staffers -- the office manager and the media guy -- who shrugged and shook their heads. "It's Gandhi," she said. 
They all went, "Ohhhh," except the grassroots guy, who crossed to the wall and used his fingertip to add, "And then they assassinate you." 
"But I've only got 200K in the place," he said. 
Her expressive brown eyes flicked at the picture window, the FOR SALE signs. "And? Sounds like you'll break even or maybe lose a little on the deal. Is that right?" 
He nodded. Losing a little wasn't something he'd figured on. But by the time he'd paid all the fees and taxes -- "I'll probably be down a point or two." 
"Have you got it?" 
He hated talking about money. That was one thing about Ria is that she never actually talked about money -- what money did , sure, but never money. "Technically," he said. 
"OK, technical money is as good as any other kind. So look at it this way: you bought a place, a really totally amazing place on the Lower East Side, a place bigger than five average New York apartments. You lived in it for, what?" 
"Eight months." 
"Most of a year. And it cost you one percent of the street price on the place. Rent would have been about eleven times that. You're up --" she calculated in her head -- "it's about 83 percent." 
“I have the net,” he said, a little defensively. He wasn’t some kind of hermit. 
“Yeah, I guess that’s right,” she said. “I wonder if the reef is somewhere out there.” 
“About half a mile to starboard,” he said. 
She laughed. “No, I meant out there on the net. They must be online by now, right? They just woke up, so they’re probably doing all the noob stuff, flaming and downloading warez and so on.” 
“Perpetual September,” Robbie said. 
“Huh?” 
“Back in the net’s prehistory it was mostly universities online, and every September a new cohort of students would come online and make all those noob mistakes. Then this commercial service full of noobs called AOL interconnected with the net and all its users came online at once, faster than the net could absorb them, and they called it Perpetual September.” 
“You’re some kind of amateur historian, huh?” 
“It’s an Asimovist thing. We spend a lot of time considering the origins of intelligence.” Speaking of Asimovism to a gentile—a human gentile—made him even more self-conscious. He dialed up the resolution on his sensors and scoured the net for better facial expression analyzers. He couldn’t read her at all, either because she’d been changed by her uploading, or because her face wasn’t accurately matching what the her temporarily downloaded mind was thinking. 
I got home, collapsed onto the couch, and opened it. Be­lieve it or not, I actually had to read the instructions. I did what they said, checked the time, and then decided to run a hot bath. 
I filled the tub, dumped in some bubble-bath, put the cord­less on the toilet seat, and splashed in. It felt so good I wanted to dissolve. Then I reached for the phone. 
The clock above the sink read eight-thirty, and I figured rightly, that Steve would be back at his hotel in Belize City. Sure enough I got him on the first try. 
"Honey, you sitting down?" I said. 
"I'm lying down. You wouldn't believe my day." 
"You 're not going to believe what I just heard from the pharmacist at the corner. Remember I told you I've been feeling strange, and some things were a little behind sched­ule? Well, guess what. We're about to find out something. We can't be together, but we can share it over a satellite." 
"You mean . . ." 
"I'm doing the test right now. You know, you take the stick out of the glass holder and if it's turned pink. . . ." 
His face flushed under the sunburn. 
“I—” he began, and stopped. “I’m afraid I can’t tell you,” he went on. “I’d like to, but, you see, I can’t. If you’ll just tell me where Car—Miss Enderby is! She’s safe at home, isn’t she? She—of course she is! She must be! She—she is, isn’t she?” 
“Well,” said Lexy slowly, “I don’t see how I can tell you anything at all. I don’t know what right you have to ask any questions. I don’t know who you are, or anything about you.” 
“No,” he replied, “I know that; but, after all, it’s not much of a question, is it—just if Miss Enderby’s all right?” 
Lexy felt very sorry for him, in his obvious struggle to speak quietly and reasonably. She wanted to answer him promptly and candidly, for his sake and for her own, because she felt sure that he could tell her something about Caroline; but she had promised Mrs. Enderby to say nothing. 
“It’s so silly!” she thought, exasperated. “If I could tell him, I might find out—” 
“Find out what? Hadn’t Caroline written to say that she had gone away to get married? In a day or two, probably to-morrow, they would learn all the details from Caroline herself. This unhappy young man couldn’t know anything. Indeed, he was asking for information. Who could he possibly be? A rival suitor? Lexy remembered Caroline’s pitifully restricted life. Two suitors of whom she had never heard? It wasn’t possible! 
I continued down the first row of buildings, and then moved to the second. Maybe I was wrong—maybe this wasn’t the place, and I should go to the third location. I’d seen not a hint of any sort of security, of any response to my rabble-rousing. 
Then I threw a rock through the third floor of the next building, and it blew up. 
I ducked around the side of the building I was next to, dropping my debris projectiles and covering my head. The blast ended with a heavy rain of brick and concrete hitting the street at y -equals-zero from the height of the third floor. 
I peeked an eye back out. 
The building was still mostly intact, but the third floor looked like a monster had bitten it off, with only one corner of the walls still standing. The rest of it had been blasted away into rubble, and the wreckage blanketed the surrounding pavement in a tumble of cinder blocks and rebar. 
And nothing moved. 
What the hell? 
Why would a security measure be blowing up their own building? And why hadn’t it triggered any further security, any of their troops with AKs or their expanded-upon Molotov cocktails... 
“But—” Lexy began, and then stopped. 
She had a very odd feeling that this story was somehow of great importance to her, but that she must put it away, that she must keep it in her mind until later. This wasn’t the time to think about it. 
“Joe,” she said, “I want to hear more about this—all about it; but not now. I’m too tired.” 
He gave himself a shake, like a dog. Then he turned to her with a slow, good-natured smile. 
“I guess you are!” he said. “Lucky for you I just happened to be late to-night, taking them Ainsly girls ’way out to their house after a dance. Hop in, miss!” 
Lexy got in, and they set off. She leaned back and closed her eyes, but they flew open again as if of their own accord. There was something she wanted to see. Through the glass she could see Joe’s burly shoulders, a little hunched—Joe, who, like herself, wasn’t sure. 
“Not now!” said something inside her. “Don’t think about that now. Try not to think at all. Wait! Something is going to happen.” 
At the corner of the road leading to Mrs. Royce’s, she tapped on the window. Joe stopped the cab with a jerk, sprang down from his seat, and ran around to open the door. 
Lexy wet a towel and passed it over that unconscious face again and again. Mrs. Royce watched, spellbound; for the dark and haggard stranger was passing away before her very eyes, and some one else was coming into life—some one quite young and— The closed lids fluttered, and then opened. 
“Lexy!” murmured the metamorphosed one. 
“I’m here, Caroline!” said Lexy, with a stifled sob. “Everything’s all right, dear! Don’t worry—just rest!” 
“I can’t, Lexy! I can’t!” she answered, and from her eyes, now closed again, tears came running slowly down her cheeks. 
“Yes, you can!” said Lexy. “We’ll—” 
“Supposing I get her some nice hot soup?” whispered Mrs. Royce, and, at a nod from Lexy, she was off again. 
Caroline reached out and caught Lexy’s hand. 
“Oh, Lexy, Lexy!” she said. “Can you ever forgive me?” 
“No!” her friend replied cheerfully. “Never! But don’t bother now. You can tell me later, when you feel better.” 
“I’ll never, never feel better till I’ve told you! Oh, Lexy, I knew yesterday, and I didn’t tell you! Oh, Lexy, Lexy, I don’t understand! I want to tell you! I want you to help me!” 
He grunted. “Usual rates.” 
“Yeah. I need everything you can get on the word Pithica.” 
“Spelling?” 
“I’m not sure. There might be some ties to Colombian drug runners. And the authorities might be investigating already.” 
He grunted again. “Two hours.” 
“Got it.” I hung up. Anton was one of several information brokers in the city, and I’d hired him not infrequently over the past couple of years, whenever I wanted to know more than a standard Internet search would give me. If “Pithica” had a paper trail, I was betting he could find it. 
“Come on,” I said to Courtney, shepherding her back to the car. “We’re going to hit rush hour as it is.” 
“Do you have cash, or is your money all in the bank?” I asked Courtney as we inched forward through the eternal parking lot of the 405 freeway, the heat beating down through the windshield and slowly cooking us. The temperature had catapulted up by a full thirty-four degrees Fahrenheit with the rising sun as we finally headed into the city: Los Angeles at its finest. Our current junkpot car didn’t have air conditioning, and the still air and stalled traffic meant even rolling down the windows didn’t help one whit. 
Charles wasn't fooled. He was already backing away, trying to fade into the woods. Darryl moved to flank him. I took the other flank. Abruptly, he turned and ran. Darryl's foot hooked his ankle and sent him sprawling. We rushed him, just in time to hear a ref's whistle. 
The ref hadn't seen Charles foul me, but he'd seen Charles's play that weekend. He sent Charles back to the camp entrance and told him he was out of the game. Charles complained mightily, but to our satisfaction, the ref wasn't having any of it. Once Charles had gone, he gave us both a lecture, too, telling us that our retaliation was no more justified than Charles's attack. 
It was OK. That night, once the games had ended, we all got hot showers in the scout dorms. Darryl and I stole Charles's clothes and towel. We tied them in knots and dropped them in the urinal. A lot of the boys were happy to contribute to the effort of soaking them. Charles had been very enthusiastic about his tackles. 
I wish I could have watched him when he got out of his shower and discovered his clothes. It's a hard decision: do you run naked across the camp, or pick apart the tight, piss-soaked knots in your clothes and then put them on? 
When he does remember, he says, "I'm punctual." 
"If that's the worst of your vices, I think you might not be a complete waste of my energies." 
"Am I supposed to take that as flattery?" 
"Indeed. And you're supposed to say something flattering in return." 
"If you get me started we'll be standing here all day." He's fairly certain he's making a fool of himself. Despite everything, just seeing her overwhelms him. "You make me feel dizzy." 
Emma puts her finger to her lips, hushing him. 
She mouths one word: wonderful. 
But with a toss of her head, she indicates the space behind her. Someone listening in. He suspects this is supposed to make him feel instantly and utterly abashed, but it doesn't. Whoever it is, he owes them a debt of dignity. 
So he'll have something less awkward to do, Ray thrusts the package of chocolates at her. Grins like an idiot. 
preferably right where he is, even more preferably, without chewing on anything that looks expensive. A brief, but frenzied negotiation results in Emma unwrapping the bundle and handing over a piece of chocolate to placate him. 
The fact was, I didn't trust Alex Goddard any farther than I could throw him. I had to get Sarah and get us both out of here as soon as possible, though that meant I'd have to neu­tralize him and the Army, and then use my limited American dollars to try to buy our way back to Guatemala City. 
"But come." He turned his gaze toward the south. "Let me show you the thing I'm proudest of here. It's just up there." He was pointing toward a dense section of the rain forest, in the opposite direction from the river and up a steep incline. 
I couldn't see anything but trees, but then I still had the feeling I'd stepped through the looking glass and found Sarah trapped there. The next thing I knew, we were on an uphill forest trail, headed due south. 
"I think it's time you told me what's going on back there in the village," I said. What was it about this place that had seized such a claim on Sarah's mind? 
" Baalum is difficult to explain to someone encountering it for the first time." He paused. "Much of it is so—" 
“He was worried.” 
Checker was Arthur’s business partner, friend, and master of all things electronic. Technically, I supposed he was my friend, too. Once I’d stopped returning his messages a few weeks ago he’d started pestering me through text, from DRUNKN BSG MARATHON 2NITE B THERE to PILAR&I R GOING 2C NEW BATMAN MOVIE U SHOULD COME to R U ALRITE??? SRSLY, TXT ME BACK, and finally, I KNOW UR ALIVE, I CHECKED. LAST CHANCE OR IM SICCING ARTHUR ON U. I’d ignored them all; I hadn’t been in the mood for company. 
Arthur cleared his throat. “So. I take it you ain’t got no cases right now.” 
“Just finished one,” I said. “This is vacation.” 
“You don’t take vacations.” 
“Work’s been slow,” I admitted. The jobs I got paid me more cash than I knew what to do with, but the dead time in between was becoming a problem. “I think...” 
“What’s going on?” 
“No proof, but I think the Lorenzo family might be putting in a bad word here and there. Mama Lorenzo can’t break appearances by coming after me aboveboard, and she might’ve said we were square, but I’ve gotten hints she’s held onto a gallon or so of resentment after last year.” 
<DoDec> They competed to see who would get to lock him up first. Michigan won. 
<Falstaff> The FBI goon who cooked it all up got promoted, though. HULK SMASH <ferret> Are you tutoring, Shad? 
<Shad> If that means getting paid, then no. 
<Falstaff> if $$ then tutoring else ((^ex- ploitation) 
<Shad> hee . She's a friend. But funny b/c we were just working on conditional statements. 
<Shad> she got it when I gave this example: if privacy then freedom else tyranny. 
<Falstaff> that's not code, that's a bumper sticker <Kadabra> if slogan then t-shirt <Wheeze> I'm on it. Have t-shirts, will silkscreen . 
<Shad> his shirts are AWESOME <Gargle> Srsly? Could use some for a promo- tion. DM me, Wheeze. 
<callmecheese> Wasn't there a reddit thread on if-then jokes? 
<Falstaff> N00000 <inky> how many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? 
<ferret> grooooaaaaaaan not that again. 
<callmecheese> **light bulb**. It's two words . 
<Wheeze> I'll bite, how many? 
<inky> Zero. It's a hardware problem. HAHAHA <Wheeze> hahaha groan. Full disclosure, I don't code and the only hardware I fix is small motors and manual typewriters. I'm not really a computer guy. 
He gave me one of those irritatingly patient looks, one that basically said “you’re being a jerk, and we both know it, but I’ll be nice to you anyway.” Then I gave him his phone and he made the call and she answered right away (which was also annoying, that she right there, waiting to hear his voice, even though it was good that she was). He made it sound casual but also slightly mysteri- ous. If she knew him at all, if she had any brains under that purple hair, she’d know something was up, but nobody else listening in would. 
He left after I made him check to make sure he still had the phone I’d given him so we could connect after he talked to Bree. I packed up my laptop, gathered up the books, put them on a book cart, and left to find a place that served...  and charming and being really super nice to me on top of being cute. It was enough to make you sick. 
We got under way quickly. Nikko Convo’d me within twenty minutes to say they were ready to roll. I told him I’d be at a spot on Minnehaha that I knew was free of surveillance cameras. I did the same thing as before with my bike, acting as if it had a problem (which, to be honest, was hardly unusual), and he pulled up and acted as if he just happened to notice me there and would give me a ride. I stowed the bike in the trunk of Bree’s car, and climbed into the back seat that was cluttered with textbooks, crumpled papers, and empty kombucha bottles. Girl drank a lot of kombucha. 
He smiles in spite of his discomfort. "Now you sound like my mother. She was a wrecking ball on my dating life." 
"Aren't mothers supposed to be? She doesn't want some tramp turning your head with jiggling parts and voluptuous curves and ruining you for the nice, decent girls." 
Ray can't help but wince. "What? Do they give you guys some kind of manual with this crap in it? Because if they do, it's grossly unfair. Boys don't get manuals for comprehending women, or if we did, I was absent that day." 
""It's all right, Ray. I like that reason. It's very romantic, very chivalrous. People who discount solid Midwestern values make a grave mistake. They set themselves up for lifetimes of misery. " 
He's getting dizzy again, as though he's watching her spin a web around him. "I don't even know what I'm doing here, let alone what I want." 
"You want me. That much should be obvious. " 
"I'm not in your league, Emma. Never have been. This isn't one of those clever sensibilities the Marines hacked out of me, either. It's not a class thing or an experience thing. It's something I never had to begin with. 
“Did he say when he’d be back?” 
“No,” said Mrs. Royce. “He didn’t say much of anything. He’s a kind of quiet young man, ain’t he? Well, he’d ought to get on with his sister, then.” 
“Is she very quiet?” asked Lexy. 
“Quiet!” repeated Mrs. Royce. “Set down an’ begin to eat, Miss Moran. I’ve fixed a real nice tasty breakfast for you, if I do say it as shouldn’t. Corn gems, too. Mis’ Quelton quiet? I should say she was! Quiet as”—she paused—“as the dead,” she went on, and the phrase made an unpleasant impression upon Lexy. “An’ her husband, too. I never saw the like of them. They never come into the village, an’ nobody ever goes out there to the Tower. About twice a week the doctor drives into Lymewell—the town below here—and he buys a lot of food an’ all, an’ he goes home. I can see him out of my front winder, an’ the sight of him, driving along in that black buggy of his—it gives me the shivers!” 
“But if he’s a doctor—” 
“Don’t ask me what kind of doctor he is, Miss Moran! He don’t go to see the sick—that’s all I know.” 
“Liar.” 
He allowed us to drive back anyway. 
Only a few roads out from Checker’s place I took a right turn and said, “Don’t look now, but we’re being followed.” 
Arthur flicked his eyes to the side mirror. “I don’t see anything,” he said, after a few more streets of watching the tragic comedy that is LA drivers trying to navigate through pounding rain. “How can you tell?” 
“Game theory,” I said. “The white sedan isn’t driving selfishly.” 
“They staked out Checker’s place,” Arthur guessed. “Case we came back.” 
“It’s okay,” I assured him. “They’re not after us; they want us to lead them back to Rio. I can lose them.” I juked the steering wheel to the side and slammed on the gas, shooting through the next intersection just as the light changed. Arthur yelled. In the rearview mirror, an SUV crashed spectacularly into the passenger side of the white sedan, and brakes screeched as three other cars skidded on the wet streets, spinning to a stop and completely blocking the intersection behind us. 
"Not at the moment." 
"But later?" 
"If there is a later. If you can forget that I've been acting like such an idiot." 
She makes the leap he fears. "This has something to do with Micah, doesn't it?" 
"Yes." 
She looks at him now, and clouds spring into her eyes, turning their extravagant blue into lead. "You're not who you seem to be, are you?" 
"I am," he says quickly. "Except for a few details." 
"Amah said you were. " 
That you were lying. Was that what she meant? 
"Emma, I—" I just want you to be safe. I want to protect you. 
She drops her hand into her lap and shakes her head, silencing him. "It's beautiful, Ray. That's enough for now. Thank you." The smile that spreads her lips is wide, brilliant, genuine, as though she's chosen to forget that's he's a big, fat liar. "We should eat before the food gets cold. Amah will be expecting me home soon." 
She doesn't ask him any more questions. But on the way back to her rooms, she takes his hand and walks close to him, their shoulders touching, and it's enough. Without speaking, she tells him that everything between them is fine.   The place is called the Front Office Bar, one of those themed deals, where the waitstaff and bartenders dress like sporting referees and the floor is sectioned off into quadrants to simulate basketball courts, a baseball infield, the fifty yard line of a domed stadium and a goalie's crease. Bright lights, active conversation, the frequent outraged bursts of young men clustered in front of giant vid screens watching relatively live feed sporting events. It's as upscale as a primarily men's club can be on the Garden, catering to the tastes of young, 
“‘Control’ is such an ugly word,” said Dawna. “Instead let us say, we must be certain he is truly on our side. I am sorry.” 
“And if he isn’t on your side?” I challenged her. 
“Oh, I doubt that will be the case, Ms. Russell. But if he is not, then...well. In that case it would be time to cut our losses. So if it helps, you can also be comforted by your friend being spared by your sacrifice.” 
“You twisted woman!” Tresting cried, finding his voice. “ Twisted —I can’t—I believed you!” 
Dawna smiled at him. “Rest assured, Mr. Tresting, if I have time or inclination, I am sure I can bring you around to our point of view again quite easily. We are doing what’s best, after all.” 
“I will never trust another word you say,” declared Tresting hotly. 
A thread of frustration entered Dawna’s voice. “Oh, of course you will. For goodness sake, you would come back to us in a heartbeat as soon as I—” She stopped and put a hand to her temple. “I am so sorry, Mr. Tresting. It’s been a trying few days. I assure you, this must be done, but we can discuss it afterwards. Would you prefer to be in another room?” 
"Our domestic. She's been with our family for years. She raised Frederick and me practically from the moment I was born, after mother became ill the first time. She has a special way with children." 
It's enough. Even taking this much advantage of her is disgusting. 
Ray reaches out to her, taking one of the hands she has folded into her lap. He squeezes it gently. "Are you all right?" 
"I don't think that I am. Not at all." 
"I'd worry if you thought you were." 
"It was bad, wasn't it? I mean, they didn't just kill him, not accidentally or even gently. Amah wouldn't give me any details, any of the truth, except to say that he was dead. But I know it must have been terrible, because she would have said so otherwise. And when I tried to ask her more about it, to give me something to comfort the other children with, she sent me to my room like a little girl. She doesn't want me to know. She thinks she's protecting me. But I don't need protection; I need to know." 
"Becker will catch whoever did this, I can promise you that." 
Well, that was only a little harder than reading a particularly dense paper. The intuitive leaps were already there. “Don’t let that get you down. I think I could finish it from here.” 
She stared at me, her face going very stiff and still. “You’re joking.” 
“No. You have most of it already.” It was a killer result, if I was honest. Creative and brilliant, turning complexity theory inside out before inverting it back again. I was impressed. 
But I wasn’t going to tell Halliday that and ruin my fun. I flicked her papers back down. “It’s just connect-the-dots. Child’s play.” 
It was hard to say whether in that moment Professor Halliday would have preferred to shoot me or hug me. 
“First things first,” I said. “We get you out of here. Then we can worry about the proof.” I stayed sitting and pointed at the door. “When do they open that?” 
“Since I’ve been here? Never. Except for my blood sugar episode. And when they brought you in.” 
Dammit. If I’d been on my toes, I could have mowed down the guards the instant I saw Halliday and gotten us both out then. I hadn’t been thinking fast enough. “Fake an attack, then,” I said. 
Johanna was crying, too, and we could barely breathe in the inferno of exhaust heat from BIGMAC's last gasp. We staggered out into the blazing Los Angeles afternoon, rising-seas stink and beating sun, blinking at the light and haze. 
"Do you think he managed it?" I asked Johanna. 
"Backing up in the wild?" 
"Yeah." 
She dried her eyes. "I doubt it. I don't know, though. I'm no computer scientist. How many ways are there to connect up compromised servers? How many of those would replicate his own outcomes? I have no idea." 
Without saying anything, we walked slowly together to Peyton's office. 
Peyton offered me my job back. I turned her down. I thought I might be ready for a career change. Do something with my hands, break the family tradition. Maybe installing solar panels. There was retraining money available. Peyton understood. She even agreed to handle any liability arising from the Rollover code, managing customer service calls from anyone who noticed something funny. 
The press didn't even notice that BIGMAC was gone. His Spam was news. His absence of spam was not. I guess he was right about that. The Campaign to Save BIGMAC did a lot of mailing-list gnashing at the iniquity of his being shut down, and then fell apart. Without me and BIGMAC to keep them whipped up, they were easily distracted. 
He swore again. “That ain’t the world I want to live in!” 
How beautifully hypocritical of the man with a carry permit. “Well, when you get around to fixing the world, you let me know.” 
“At least tell me you taught her to be safe with it, taught her muzzle and trigger discipline—” 
“I told her to point it at the thing she wants dead,” I said. “She’s a smart girl. She’s not going to shoot herself.” 
“What the— shit, Russell! That ain’t no way to teach someone firearms. The safety of it’s gotta be second-nature!” 
“Then you start taking her,” I said. Excellent. Teaching Pilar marksmanship hadn’t been as tooth-jarringly painful as I’d expected, but I still wasn’t going to pass up a chance to get out of the obligation. “Now will you let me watch the road?” The concussion was making my vision fuzzy around the edges, but I wasn’t going to admit it. 
We made good time to Pasadena. Dr. Martinez’s condo was in a pleasant, modern building full of wide windows and balconies. I had my hand under my jacket on my Colt as we got out of the car, just in case. 
"15,000?" 
"That's the head office. Most of them doing medical stuff here. We've got lots of other holdings, all around the world, in places that are different from this. But we're bringing them all in line with HQ, fast as we can. It's a good way to work. Churn is incredibly low. We actually have to put people back out into the world for a year every decade, just so they can see what it's like." 
"Is that what you're doing?" 
She socked him in the arm. "You think I could be happy here? No, I've always lived off campus. I commute. I'm not a team person. It's OK, this is the kind of place where even lone guns can find their way to glory." 
They were walking on the grass now, and he saw that the trees, strangely oversized red maples without any of the whippy slenderness he associated with the species, had a walkway suspended from their branches, a real Swiss Family Robinson job with rope-railings and little platforms with baskets on pulleys for ascending and descending. The people who scurried by overhead greeted each other volubly and laughed at the awkwardness of squeezing past each other in opposite directions. 
Mr. and Mrs. Cobb exchanged dumb glances of admiration; indeed uncle Jerry was obliged to turn his face to the window and wipe his eyes furtively with the string-bag. 
"How in the world did you do it?" Mrs. Cobb exclaimed. 
"Oh, it's easy," answered Rebecca; "the hymns at meeting are all like that. You see there's a school newspaper printed at Wareham Academy once a month. Dick Carter says the editor is always a boy, of course; but he allows girls to try and write for it, and then chooses the best. Dick thinks I can be in it." 
"IN it!" exclaimed uncle Jerry. "I shouldn't be a bit surprised if you had to write the whole paper; an' as for any boy editor, you could lick him writin', I bate ye, with one hand tied behind ye." 
"Can we have a copy of the poetry to keep in the family Bible?" inquired Mrs. Cobb respectfully. 
"Oh! would you like it?" asked Rebecca. "Yes indeed! I'll do a clean, nice one with violet ink and a fine pen. But I must go and look at my poor dress." 
The old couple followed Rebecca into the kitchen. The frock was quite dry, and in truth it had been helped a little by aunt Sarah's ministrations; but the colors had run in the rubbing, the pattern was blurred, and there were muddy streaks here and there. As a last resort, it was carefully smoothed with a warm iron, and Rebecca was urged to attire herself, that they might see if the spots showed as much when it was on. 
She refused to let that make her self-conscious. Of course she was different, but it wasn't geographic. The last time they'd seen each other, they were lovers and friends. Now they were ex-lovers who were being paid to accomplish opposing, mutually exclusive objectives. She knew that there was a certain power in not saying anything, so she wrapped herself in silence and waited for him to say something. She didn't have to wait long. 
"Your bill is going to committee?" 
"Well, I certainly hope so," she said. "That's what I'm here for, after all. The discussion draft has been circulating for a week, and we're confident we'll see it introduced and assigned to committee by the end of this week. That's what we're told, anyway. It's got strong bipartisan support. Selling Congress on the importance of human-generated governance is pretty easy. Wouldn't want to be in your shoes." 
He grinned. "You're trying to psych me out." 
"Maybe," she said, grinning back. "But that's nothing compared to the psych job that we've been getting down at my office." She told him about the phone weirdness, the oddball traffic-management. "Someone on your side has a funny sense of humor." 
"Rebecca Randall!" exclaimed Emma Jane, "you're handsome as a picture!" 
"I?" laughed Rebecca "Nonsense! it's only the pink gingham." 
"You're not good looking every day," insisted Emma Jane; "but you're different somehow. See my garnet ring; mother scrubbed it in soap and water. How on earth did your aunt Mirandy let you put on your bran' new dress?" 
"They were both away and I didn't ask," Rebecca responded anxiously. "Why? Do you think they'd have said no?" 
"Miss Mirandy always says no, doesn't she?" asked Emma Jane. 
"Ye—es; but this afternoon is very special—almost like a Sunday-school concert." 
"Yes," assented Emma Jane, "it is, of course; with your name on the board, and our pointing to your flag, and our elergant dialogue, and all that." 
The afternoon was one succession of solid triumphs for everybody concerned. There were no real failures at all, no tears, no parents ashamed of their offspring. Miss Dearborn heard many admiring remarks passed upon her ability, and wondered whether they belonged to her or partly, at least, to Rebecca. The child had no more to do than several others, but she was somehow in the foreground. It transpired afterwards at various village entertainments that Rebecca couldn't be kept in the background; it positively refused to hold her. Her worst enemy could not have called her pushing. She was ready and willing and never shy; but she sought for no chances of display and was, indeed, remarkably lacking in self-consciousness, as well as eager to bring others into whatever fun or entertainment there was. 
"The bus," Lee-Daniel said. "Get in the bus. Get everyone to the bus. This isn't our fight." He looked around for Elaine, but he didn't see her. Headed for the bus, that's what you did in an emergency. Fuck. 
It was an emergency. There was an even tramping of feet ahead of him, behind him, to his left and right. He stood, slowly, and put his hands in the air. 
"I'm not a combatant," he said, loudly, but in a steady voice. 
He walked toward the bus, hands still in the air. "I am not a combatant," he said again. A laser dot climbed his toe, his leg, centered on his gut. He looked down at it. 
"They will shoot you, you know," Cobra said. "They shoot. They think they're playing cowboys and indians." He sounded very calm. 
"I am not a combatant," he said again, taking another step forward. A second red dot joined the first, climbing his leg and resting within inches of the first, dancing and bobbing like a firefly. From the woods,...  Lee-Daniel said. 
"They don't speak English when they don't want to," Cobra said. "If I were you, I'd get down and stay down." Then he yelled...  him tittered nervously. 
Episodes like these enlivened the quiet course of every-day existence, made more quiet by the departure of Dick Carter, Living Perkins, and Huldah Meserve for Wareham, and the small attendance at the winter school, from which the younger children of the place stayed away during the cold weather. 
Life, however, could never be thoroughly dull or lacking in adventure to a child of Rebecca's temperament. Her nature was full of adaptability, fluidity, receptivity. She made friends everywhere she went, and snatched up acquaintances in every corner. 
It was she who ran to the shed door to take the dish to the...  knew the family histories of the itinerant fruit venders and tin peddlers; she who was asked to take supper or pass the night with children in neighboring villages—children of whose parents her aunts had never so much as heard. As to the nature of these friendships, which seemed so many to the eye of the superficial observer, they were of various kinds, and while the girl pursued them with enthusiasm and ardor, they left her unsatisfied and heart-hungry; they were never intimacies such as are so readily made by shallow natures. She loved Emma Jane, but it was a friendship born of propinquity and circumstance, not of true affinity. It was her neighbor's amiability, constancy, and devotion that she loved, and although she rated these qualities at their true value, she was always searching beyond them for intellectual treasures; searching and never finding, for although Emma Jane had the advantage in years she was still immature. Huldah Meserve had an instinctive love of fun which appealed to Rebecca; she also had a fascinating knowledge of the world, from having visited her married sisters in Milltown and Portland; but on the other hand there was a certain sharpness and lack of sympathy in Huldah which repelled rather than attracted. With Dick Carter she could at least talk intelligently about lessons. He was a very ambitious boy, full of plans for his future, which he discussed quite freely with Rebecca, but when she broached the subject of her future his interest sensibly lessened. Into the world of the ideal Emma Jane, Huldah, and Dick alike never seemed to have peeped, and the consciousness of this was always a fixed gulf between them and Rebecca. 
He strolled over to the window and looked out. "The women come to me for my blessing whenever they hope to bear a child. They know that if they wish, I can cause their first child to be a descendant of their white deity Kukulkan. For them it is a sacred event." 
"They believe that?" It was sickening. I felt a knot grow­ing in my stomach, even as my hallucinations flashed ever bolder, bright rainbows that flitted about the room, then wound themselves around me. 
"A great philosopher once said, All religions are true.' Who are we to judge?" He paused. "Let me try and explain something. Those patterns you see the women weaving on the fabrics down in Baalum, those patterns are actually just like the designs on that thousand-year-old pyramid. But though that pyramid had been buried and lost to them for so many years, they still made the designs all those years, be­cause those symbols are a road map of their unseen world. Not the forest here where we are now, but their real world, where the gods dwell who rule the lightning bolts, the ger­mination of corn." He was at the door, preparing to leave, but he paused. "They also understand the . . . special infants who come are miracles that must be returned. They receive but they also must give. Now they wish you to be part of that." 
I stayed wary of any explosives that hadn’t gone in the original blast, but the third floor had died a valiant death and thoroughly destroyed itself. I finally found a staircase—well, more like a ladder into a skylight now. 
Very carefully, I stepped down. 
My skin tingled as I transferred my weight from stair to stair. What if they’d rigged everything about the second floor, instead of only the perimeter like I expected? What if I jostled the wrong bit of wall or stepped on the wrong patch of floor? 
I reached the bottom without blowing anything up. I took a steadying breath, immediately regretted it as my ribs twinged, and peered around, keeping my steps slow and my senses alert. 
The second floor had been set up like a barracks. Bunks took up quite a few of the rooms, stacked on top of each other with no privacy. A rusted-out kitchen was replete with boxed MREs; I didn’t think it likely the plumbing was working. A larger percentage of the rooms turned out to be empty—this building was, apparently, too big even for their purposes. I wandered between them, the light filtering through the painted-over windows creating an eerie interplay of shadows. 
Halliday let out a gasp. 
“What? What is it?” said Arthur. 
“She proved P equals NP,” I said. The sentence didn’t sound real. It felt like I was saying a line, lying, pretending this impossible thing was true. Halliday had her eyes fixed on the paper, frozen. I was pretty sure she had stopped breathing. 
“Hey,” said Arthur, his voice low and tense as he put a supportive hand on Halliday’s back. “Help a layman out. What does that mean?” 
“There’s a...a problem, in mathematics,” I said. “It’s called the P versus NP problem. What do you know about complexity classes?” 
“Nothing,” said Arthur. 
I closed my eyes. It felt absurd, somehow, that the world was ending and I had to stop and explain why. Absurd and surreal. “We can categorize problems according to how difficult they are computationally,” I said. “Any problem in the set we call ‘P’ is something that can be quickly solved. We say ‘quickly’—meaning we can solve it in polynomial time on a deterministic Turing machine, but don’t worry about that. Any problem in NP is something that, if we have a solution, we can verify that solution quickly—but we wouldn’t necessarily know how to solve it quickly.” I tried to steady my voice. “It’s like if you have the solution to a maze, you can walk through that maze and make sure the solution works. But if you’re trying to find the solution, it’s a lot more difficult.” 
He came to her side. 
“It’s the print of a hand,” he said. “In blood, I should imagine.” 
For a moment they stared at the ghastly mark, a strange evidence of pain and violence in this quiet place. 
“We’d better look in the garden,” he suggested. 
They went down. The grass beneath the balcony was beaten down in one place, but there was nothing else. Some one had come and gone. They could not even guess who it had been. They knew nothing. 
“Come, Lexy!” the captain said. 
They both turned for one last look at the accursed house, blazing with spectral lights. Then they set off, away from it, over that weary road again. 
“There’s no police station in the village, is there?” he asked. 
“I’ve never seen one, but I’ve heard Mrs. Royce talk about the constable. Anyhow, she can tell us.” 
“Yes,” he said, and was silent for a moment. “Rather a pity, isn’t it,” he went on, “that there has to be—all that? Because it doesn’t matter now. It’s finished. Better if the house burned down to-night!” 
In her heart Lexy agreed with him. She had no curiosity left, and scarcely any interest. As he had said, it was finished. She wanted to rest, not to speak, not to think, not to remember; but it couldn’t be so. They would both have to tell what they had seen, to answer questions. It wasn’t enough that two people lay dead in that house of horror. All the world, which knew and cared nothing about them, must have a full explanation. 
Why did we have cameras in our classrooms now? Terrorists. Of course. Because by blowing up a bridge, terrorists had indicated that schools were next. Somehow that was the conclusion that the Board had reached anyway. 
I read this note three times and then I stuck my hand up. 
"Yes, Marcus?" 
"Ms Galvez, about this note?" 
"Yes, Marcus." 
"Isn't the point of terrorism to make us afraid? That's why it's called terror ism, right?" 
"I suppose so." The class was staring at me. I wasn't the best student in school, but I did like a good in-class debate. They were waiting to hear what I'd say next. 
"So aren't we doing what the terrorists want from us? Don't they win if we act all afraid and put cameras in the classrooms and all of that?" 
There was some nervous tittering. One of the others put his hand up. It was Charles. Ms Galvez called on him. 
"Putting cameras in makes us safe, which makes us less afraid." 
"Safe from what?" I said, without waiting to be called on. 
"Terrorism," Charles said. The others were nodding their heads. 
"That's encouraging. " 
"No. No, it isn't." There's a weight of misery behind his words, long nights of grappling with the nature of humanity by a man used to seeing only its seamy side. 
"Ray," Becker says after awhile, sounding thoughtful. "Why would Whiston be trying to summon a shed on this ship?" 
"I don't know. I'm hoping you can make him tell us." 
"I can't help but be aware of a distinct lack of shed related violence on the shift logs. You said we'd notice if the effort had been successful, right?" 
"The whole ship would notice. It's not the type of thing you can keep secret for very long." 
Becker chews his lip for several moments, on the verge of saying something that obviously distresses him. 
"Has it occurred to you that maybe he or they didn't try to summon the shed on purpose? Not that they failed, 
but that they weren't even trying. That maybe the whole point is to set in motion a chain of events that would get you off the ship and down to New Holyoke. Not a message at all, but a catalyst." 
“Cas! Are you all right?” 
Checker had swung open the door; he wore a dark green fleece and was backlit by a bright and warm entryway. I stood on the porch, shivering. 
“My God, come in—you look like a drowned rat. Come in. Are you okay? There aren’t any bad guys chasing you or anything, are there?” He cast a quick and slightly nervous glance at the street behind me as he ushered me inside and shut the door. 
I shook my head and stood still. I was dripping all over his floor. That was probably rude. 
He touched my arm. “What’s going on? Are you okay?” 
I kept dripping. 
“Hey, um, let me get you a towel—and some clothes—hang on a sec—” 
Within seconds he had thrust a thick towel and some folded sweats into my hands and was gently pushing me into the bathroom. “Get cleaned off; shower if you want to—you’re covered in mud—you’re okay, right? I mean physically? You don’t need a first-aid kit or anything?” 
“No,” I said. 
“Good, good, okay, then, uh, get dry, and I’ll, uh, I’ll make some tea or something, okay? You need anything else?” 
I arrived in Hollywood a few hours early—the Lancer might already be waiting, and I had to get Martinez out of here the moment she popped...  and let my vision unfocus over the crowds. I’d only met Martinez the one time, but I was reasonably sure I’d still be able to recognize the individual mathematics of her posture and stride to pick her out of the throng. 
The sun set, but the bright cheeriness of enticing storefronts blazing across the street made it as easy to see as in the daytime. I watched and waited. 
At a little before half-past eight, Rita Martinez appeared. 
She had on a shapeless sweater covering bulky layers of clothing and a scarf over her hair, and huge sunglasses that disguised her features. She wandered toward the concert hall, sat down on a bench, and checked her watch. 
I stood and...  my eyes on her. 
Pedestrian traffic flowed by her. She looked around and then checked her watch again. She crossed and uncrossed her ankles. Then, before I was halfway to her, she stood and walked over to the ticket window at the concert hall, handed in some cash, and toddled inside. 
"I had intended to ask you at noontime, but you weren't at home, so I couldn't," began Rebecca. 
"You did no such a thing; you put it on because you was left alone, though you knew well enough I wouldn't have let you." 
"If I'd been CERTAIN you wouldn't have let me I'd never have done it," said Rebecca, trying to be truthful; "but I wasn't CERTAIN, and it was worth risking. I thought perhaps you might, if you knew it was almost a real exhibition at school." 
"Exhibition!" exclaimed Miranda scornfully; "you are exhibition enough by yourself, I should say. Was you exhibitin' your parasol?" 
"The parasol WAS silly," confessed Rebecca, hanging her head; "but it's the only time in my whole life when I had anything to match it, and it looked so beautiful with the pink dress! Emma Jane and I spoke a dialogue about a city girl and a country girl, and it came to me just the minute before I started how nice it would come in for the city girl; and it did. I haven't hurt my dress a mite, aunt Mirandy." 
“I didn’t mean to say you don’t understand computers, but I know a lot about them. I might be able to fix it.” 
She humphed. “I suppose there’s no harm in it.” 
Her study was dusty, but there was nothing but a giant old- fashioned monitor and keyboard on her desk. She bent down, 
moving as if it hurt, and switched on the tower that lurked under the desk. “Knock yourself out.” 
“How do you back up your stuff?” 
“It’s all in there,” she said, waving her skinny, knotty fingers at a plastic box. 
I lifted up the dusty hinged lid. “You’re kidding.” There were maybe two hundred diskettes inside. 
The computer monitor finally lit up with an old-fashioned Windows logo. A few minutes later, the desktop finally showed up. I checked out her documents, a system of neatly-labeled file folders stuffed full of Word and PDF documents. Confidential memos, court documents, stuff you wouldn’t want in the wrong hands. “You don’t have a password on your computer?” 
“I need a password? I have no idea what it would be.” 
Suddenly she wanted to laugh. She had a very vivid memory of Dr. Quelton tapping that bottle with his finger, and saying to Captain Grey that he had a preparation in there which would make his fortune, if he chose. 
“It wouldn’t now,” she thought, struggling with suppressed laughter. 
There was nothing in that bottle now but water. Just before dinner she had run up to the cupola, emptied its contents into the sink, and filled it from the tap. 
The idea had come to her when she overheard the two men talking. It had seemed to her then a plain and obvious duty to destroy the drug that so horribly affected Mrs. Quelton. Fate had allowed her to see which bottle it was. Fate gave her an undisturbed half hour when the doctor and Captain Grey were out; and, to make her plan quite perfect, the liquid in the bottle was colorless and almost without odor. 
She had thought it possible that the doctor would not notice the substitution until his unhappy wife had had at least a chance to return to a normal condition. Lexy had meant to wait and to watch, and, when the moment came, to speak to Mrs. Quelton. She had thought that she could warn the doctor’s wife, and implore her not to submit to that hideous domination. 
“Did it?” 
“Yes,” she said. “But I did more treading than getting trodden on.” The other girls were really fat, and they didn’t have a lot of team skills. Anda had been to war: she knew how to depend on someone and how to be depended upon. 
“That’s my girl.” He pretended to inspect the paint-work around the light switch. “Been on the scales this week?” 
She had, of course: the school nutritionist saw to that, a morning humiliation undertaken in full sight of all the other fatties. 
“Yes, Dad.” 
“And—?” 
“I’ve lost a stone,” she said. A little more than a stone, actually. She had been able to fit into last year’s jeans the other day. 
She hadn’t been the sweets-shop in a month. When she thought about sweets, it made her think of the little girls in the sweatshop. Sweatshop, sweetshop. The sweets shop man sold his wares close to the school because little girls who didn’t know better would be tempted by them. No one forced them, but they were kids and grownups were supposed to look out for kids. 
I sat up with my heart pounding. I have two laptops, one that’s for general use, the other reserved for more sensitive work. I raised up my mat and slipped a finger into the loose floorboard that had a handy knothole in it. When I lifted up the floorboard, 
it made just enough space for me to slip in the for-my-eyes-only laptop, where it nestled among some weird insulation that looked like dirty snow. The power cord followed, and I rearranged the insulation to cover it up. It all felt bizarre, as if was having a para- noid nightmare, and I froze for a moment, stuck in the strangeness of it all. 
“Zen?” My aunt again. 
“Hang on,” I called out in a high, squeaky voice as I lowered the mat and grabbed the kimono decorated with anime characters that Monica had bought for me at Ragstock last Christmas. I took a deep breath and squeezed my eyes shut for a moment. This is real. Don’t freak out. 
“Hey,” I said, coming out of my room and rubbing my eyes with the heel of one hand. Acting groggy might give me time to think. Also, I was groggy. It’s not every morning you wake up into a real-life bad dream. 
“You won’t kill me,” said Dawna, her voice a low, even purr. “On the other hand, you are unusually effective at dispatching my people. I would hate to be caught in a crossfire.” 
I heard her take another few steps into the room. Felt her eyes on the back of my neck. 
They pierced me. Observing. Studying. She knew. 
Rio’s voice echoed in my brain, telling me under no circumstances to let her see my face, making me promise, impressing upon me that the slim probability we had of this working existed only as long as I kept my head down—I felt myself turning and tried to stop, tried to deny her, to keep her limited to my body language— don’t look up, keep your eyes away, don’t ruin everything, we’re so close—! 
No words, no precautions, no plans made any difference, not against her. I turned and met Dawna’s eyes, and the moment I did, the smallest datum that she might have been lacking snapped into place. 
She knew everything. 
She knew that Checker was far outside the county, that he was the one scrambling to stream our code, that I had left it all in his hands. 
Bree showed me the goats. They had a big pasture to wander in, but they were curious about the new people and were all bunched up by the door into the barn, jostling each other to get the best view. When I stepped into their pasture, they crowded up to check me out and whiffle their soft lips against my palm. 
They tried to eat my coat, too, but they didn’t seem upset when I pushed them away. The sheep were more wary and moved away in a nervous gang when all I did was look at them. 
When we went back to the kitchen, we found Jane Shandy had spread food on the table: crusty bread and crumbly white cheese, 
apples and jars of pickled mushrooms and beets and string beans. 
“This looks great,” Nikko said, adding the jar of shelled nuts to the abundance. 
“I love your chickens, and those goats! They’re so darling!” 
Bree said. 
“Did you take pictures with your phone?” Our host seemed suddenly like the person standing on the porch with a gun. “Post them to Facebook? Did all your ‘friends’ like them?” She waggled her fingers to make scare quotes in the air. 
"You want several weeks?" the Series A man said, with mock incredulity. 
"Half an hour," Lee-Daniel said. "I don't think that's too much to ask." 
They settled for Warrior escorts for the antennamen and the surveyors. The Warriors were resentful at first, but they came around. 
Lee-Daniel went out with a crew that Elaine was leading, up on the northern border of the sovereign. She had two junior surveyors with her, all of them loaded with positioning gear that tied into Galileo, the European GPS network -- the Galileo gear cost a fortune, but they'd found that their American GPS kit often mysteriously stopped working when they were working on projects in the territorial USA. They'd ordered the Euro stuff from a bunch of anti-globalization activists who'd found that the same thing happened in any city hosting an economic summit. Europeans were more likely to treat infrastructure as sacrosanct, while the US was only too happy to monkey with GPS for tactical reasons. 
The surveyors and the Warriors kept their distance as they set out, one Warrior leading and one bringing up the rear. Elaine would call for a break every five or ten minutes and do magic with her many devices, chattering into her cellphone to communicate with the other crews, make sure they weren't overlapping or diverging too widely. 
"Who knows, but I'm going to get the boys downtown to put out a missing-persons APB nationwide. Gerry'll do it for me if I ask. Fuck New York's Finest. They ain't gonna do crap anyway." 
I listened wondering how to impress my bright idea upon him. The chances were Ramos was taking Sarah back to Guatemala. Probably right this minute. For some kind of un­finished business. Or just to hold her there as an insurance policy that Children of Light would never be mentioned in my picture. 
"I seriously doubt a missing-persons alert is going to do any good Lou, because I seriously doubt she's going to be walking the streets of this country. That bastard Ramos is taking her where he knows he can hide her." 
"You mean . . . Jesus." He stared at me as though the idea had never crossed his mind. I think he'd just repressed it. "What are we going to—?" 
"The only thing we can do. I'm going down there. I'm going to go straight down there and locate Alex Goddard." 
"That's an exceptionally lousy thought process." His voice seemed to be coming from a great distance. 
Like now. Arthur was busy following his other lead, and we’d find his friend faster if we kept working in parallel. Besides, it would take him ages to get out here—I wasn’t just being petty. I wasn’t. 
And even if I weren’t hours east of the city, who else was I going to call? I knew a Mob sniper who still claimed he owed me eighty percent of a favor, but I didn’t trust him further than a nickel’s worth, not the least of which because his boss had been trying to freeze me out of the underground for a year now. I knew a forger who hadn’t sold me out when he’d had the chance, but that didn’t change the fact that he was a forger, not someone I could call into a firefight even if I’d wanted to. To be perfectly honest, the only person I truly trusted to be skilled enough to have my back was halfway around the world bashing corrupted warlords’ heads in, and that was even farther than Pasadena. 
“I could call Rio,” I said, just to get a rise out of Checker. 
“If you think you should,” said Checker after a moment, very stiffly. I almost laughed. He was going to strain something trying to avoid saying what he thought about that idea. I suspected it was a rant about selling your soul to the devil to kill a spider—albeit a poisonous one. 
› any trouble? 
Well all right then. 
One player entered the cottage and came back out again. The other player spoke. 
“Lucy?” 
“What’s up?” 
“Two blokes just showed up and told me to piss off. They’re noobs, though. Should I kill them?” 
“No! Jeez, Anda, those are the contacts. They’re just making sure the job was done. Get my stuff and meet me at Marionettes Tavern, OK?” 
Anda went over to Lucy’s corpse and looted it, then set out down the road, dragging the BFG behind her. She stopped at the bend in the road and snuck a peek back at the cottage. It was in flames, the two noobs standing amid them, burning slowly along with the cottage and a few thousand golds’ worth of badly crafted shirts. 
That was the first of Anda and Lucy’s missions, but it wasn’t the last. That month, she fought her way through six more, and the paypal she used filled with real, honest-to-goodness cash, Pounds Sterling that she could withdraw from the cashpoint situated exactly 501 meters away from the schoolgate, next to the candy shop that was likewise 501 meters away. 
I looked back at the bar. “Sequence,” I corrected. I hadn’t realized I’d been doing it. 
“Like to see the world the way you do some time,” said Arthur. 
Vectors stretched out around me in a thousand variations, constantly reforming, lengthening, summing in infinite combinations like I was in the middle of some fucking chess game and couldn’t help but see twenty steps ahead in all directions, and I dearly wished I’d been able to have more alcohol. “No,” I told Arthur. “You wouldn’t.” 
Professor Sonya Halliday, well-known luminary in the fields of cryptography and complexity theory, greeted us the next morning at the door of her on-campus office. With its sprawling California architecture and palm tree-lined avenues, the university was one of those places that tried so hard to be warm and cheerful that it automatically made me feel rebelliously depressed. 
Professor Halliday was...  who was probably in her mid-forties but looked older. She was dressed very precisely in a straight skirt and severe blouse, with her graying hair pulled tightly back from her face. She regarded us through rimless glasses and shook my hand formally when Arthur introduced us. “Are you a private investigator, as well?” she inquired. 
"I see. Well, that's all right. I'll take three hundred cakes, and that will give them shade and all." 
Rebecca had been seated on a stool very near to the edge of the porch, and at this remark she made a sudden movement, tipped over, and disappeared into a clump of lilac bushes. It was a very short distance, fortunately, and the amused capitalist picked her up, set her on her feet, and brushed her off. "You should never seem surprised when you have taken a large order," said he; "you ought to have replied 'Can't you make it three hundred and fifty?' instead of capsizing in that unbusinesslike way." 
"Oh, I could never say anything like that!" exclaimed Rebecca, who was blushing crimson at her awkward fall. "But it doesn't seem right for you to buy so much. Are you sure you can afford it?" 
"If I can't, I'll save on something else," returned the jocose philanthropist. 
"What if your aunt shouldn't like the kind of soap?" queried Rebecca nervously. 
"Then there's something wrong with your aunt!" 
"No," Rebecca answered. "Ever so many people said our dresses were the very prettiest; they looked like soft lace. You're not to be anxious about anything. Here I am all grown up and graduated,—number three in a class of twenty-two, aunt Miranda,—and good positions offered me already. Look at me, big and strong and young, all ready to go into the world and show what you and aunt Jane have done for me. If you want me near, I'll take the Edgewood school, so that I can be here nights and Sundays to help; and if you get better, then I'll go to Augusta,—for that's a hundred dollars more, with music lessons and other things beside." 
"You listen to me," said Miranda quaveringly. "Take the best place, regardless o' my sickness. I'd like to live long enough to know you'd paid off that mortgage, but I guess I shan't." 
Here she ceased abruptly, having talked more than she had for weeks; and Rebecca stole out of the room, to cry by herself and wonder if old age must be so grim, so hard, so unchastened and unsweetened, as it slipped into the valley of the shadow. 
They did, most uncompromisingly, and to the dullest eye. Rebecca gave one searching look, and then said, as she took her hat from a nail in the entry, "I think I'll be going. Good-night! If I've got to have a scolding, I want it quick, and get it over." 
"Poor little onlucky misfortunate thing!" sighed uncle Jerry, as his eyes followed her down the hill. "I wish she could pay some attention to the ground under her feet; but I vow, if she was ourn I'd let her slop paint all over the house before I could scold her. Here's her poetry she's left behind. Read it out ag'in, mother. Land!" he continued, chuckling, as he lighted his cob pipe; "I can just see the last flap o' that boy-editor's shirt tail as he legs it for the woods, while Rebecky settles down in his revolvin' cheer! I'm puzzled as to what kind of a job editin' is, exactly; but she'll find out, Rebecky will. An' she'll just edit for all she's worth! 
Land, mother! that takes right holt, kind o' like the gospel. How do you suppose she thought that out?" 
"She couldn't have thought it out at her age," said Mrs. Cobb; "she must have just guessed it was that way. We know some things without bein' told, Jeremiah." 
Rebecca took her scolding (which she richly deserved) like a soldier. There was considerable of it, and Miss Miranda remarked, among other things, that so absent-minded a child was sure to grow up into a driveling idiot. She was bidden to stay away from Alice Robinson's birthday party, and doomed to wear her dress, stained and streaked as it was, until it was worn out. Aunt Jane six months later mitigated this martyrdom by making her a ruffled dimity pinafore, artfully shaped to conceal all the spots. She was blessedly ready with these mediations between the poor little sinner and the full consequences of her sin. 
When Rebecca had heard her sentence and gone to the north chamber she began to think. If there was anything she did not wish to grow into, it was an idiot of any sort, particularly a driveling one; and she resolved to punish herself every time she incurred what she considered to be the righteous displeasure of her virtuous relative. She didn't mind staying away from Alice Robinson's. She had told Emma Jane it would be like a picnic in a graveyard, the Robinson house being as near an approach to a tomb as a house can manage to be. Children were commonly brought in at the back door, and requested to stand on newspapers while making their call, so that Alice was begged by her friends to "receive" in the shed or barn whenever possible. Mrs. Robinson was not only "turrible neat," but "turrible close," so that the refreshments were likely to be peppermint lozenges and glasses of well water. 
Now, to exfiltrate the campus in perfect anonymity and make our escape. 
Darryl opened the door and began to move out, me on his heels. A second later, he was standing on my toes, elbows jammed into my chest, as he tried to back-pedal into the closet-sized kitchen we'd just left. 
"Get back," he whispered urgently. "Quick -- it's Charles!" 
Charles Walker and I don't get along. We're in the same grade, and we've known each other as long as I've known Darryl, but that's where the resemblance ends. Charles has always been big for his age, and now that he's playing football and on the juice, he's even bigger. He's got anger management problems...  in the third grade, and he's managed to keep from getting in trouble over them by becoming the most active snitch in school. 
It's a bad combination, a bully who also snitches, taking great pleasure in going to the teachers with whatever infractions he's found. Benson loved Charles. Charles liked to let on that he had some kind of unspecified bladder problem, which gave him a ready-made excuse to prowl the hallways at Chavez, looking for people to fink on. 
“Wait. Is it a good lawyer?” 
“A very good lawyer.” 
“What’s her name? Luisa what?” 
“Luisa Cruz, but she’s a 3 L assisting with the case. Is the com- puter working?” 
“What’s a 3 L?” 
“A law student in her third year.” 
“ What 1 That’s bullshit! Wilson needs a real lawyer, not some student.” 
“He needs an entire legal team,” she said firmly. “And he now has one, which includes Luisa Cruz, who has a gifted mind and is willing to work on Friday evening when most people her age would be having fun. Now, I’d like to see that video, if the com- puter is capable of playing it.” 
“Course it is.” Somehow she’d made me feel embarrassed that I had been yelling. That never happens. Well, yelling happens, but feeling bad about it doesn’t. That calm, confident voice made me feel a weird mix of being ashamed and stroked at the same time. 
She followed me into the study, where I had a browser open. 
“Okay, I went with Ubuntu for the operating system. I also installed LibreOffice, which is your word processor and spread- sheet and so forth. This orange cone thing? That’s VLC, for videos, and the browser is Tor, which keeps your traffic private by using distributed relays. We should probably also set you up with a SpiderOak account so that you can store your stuff in the cloud, 
"Yes, but I've already spotted most of the work print, and I've made tentative dates for people to come in. In a week and a half. Everything's still on schedule." 
He leaned back on his white couch, as though trying to regroup. It was Saturday morning and I'd already made the appointment to see Alex Goddard. I was going. I probably should have run it by David first, but damnit, it was my life. 
Truthfully, though, I'd been dreading telling him all week, so to try and make him as congenial as possible, I'd arranged to see him at home and relaxed. It seemed to be working, more or less. 
"Okay, okay, sometimes I guess it's best to just go with your gut," he said, beginning to calm down. He'd offered to whip up some brunch when I first arrived, and now I was feeling sorry I'd turned him down. I really did like him. But, alas, only as a friend. "Before I cave in totally, though, do me a favor and tell me some more about this . . . documen­tary? What, exactly, makes you think it's—" 
"Everything." Whereupon I laid on him the full story of Carly and Paula, the children, and my encounter with Alex Goddard. The only thing I left out was the story of the His­panic hood since I didn't think he could handle it. 
“A little bit,” Lexy admitted; “but don’t pay any attention to it. Go on!” 
“That’s about all there is. She said she would meet me here in Wyngate, because that’s the nearest station of the main line to some little place where a nurse or a governess of hers lived.” 
“Miss Craigie!” 
“Never heard the name. Anyhow, she wanted to go there after we got married, and—I wish you wouldn’t look like that!” 
“But I’m so awfully sorry for you!” 
“It was pretty hard, at first,” he said; “but—well, you see, I’ve thought a bit about it, and after all I’m glad we didn’t get married.” 
“Oh!” cried Lexy, profoundly shocked. “But that’s—” 
“Because I—you see, she didn’t—well, I don’t think she really liked me very much.” 
Lexy was astounded. 
“Fact!” said he. “What she wanted was romance, and all that sort of thing. She wanted to get away from home, and I was the only chance she had; so there you are!” 
“That wasn’t very fair to you!” 
“I don’t blame her,” he said thoughtfully. “We were both—but what’s the sense of talking about all that? The thing is to find her!” 
"Sarah," I said, pronouncing the name slowly. "Sarah Crenshaw." 
"Sara," one voiced, then others. They backed away and immediately began a heated dispute, which eventually in­volved all the women. Well, one thing was for sure: They damned well knew who I was asking about. But why were they so upset? Next, several of them grew testy, pointing at me as they continued to argue. 
Finally the two I'd first approached turned and began urg­ing me to leave, gesturing at me with their hands as though sweeping me out of the compound. Yes, there was no mis­taking. I was being dismissed. And I detected an odd ner­vousness as they glanced around, seemingly worried somebody might catch me there with them. I got the feeling they'd finally decided they didn't want me anywhere near them, since they kept pointing down the thoroughfare in the direction of the pyramid. 
I've blown it, I thought. They must have figured out I'm here to get her and decided they no longer want to have anything to do with me. What did that mean? 
The agent put me in one of their SUVs along with several Feds who were geared to the teeth. I tried to demand to talk to my client again, and she slammed the door in my face. 
Fuck. 
Well, whatever was going to happen was going to happen. If I had to break out of federal custody again, I would. 
I should have cared a lot more about getting taken in, but I just didn’t have the energy. 
My hard-faced agent friend had said her name was Jones. I didn’t know whether to suspect that of being an alias or not—she didn’t look like a Jones, but then, would a Fed pick such an obvious fake name? I didn’t suppose it mattered. 
She left me to wait locked in a small room sitting at a metal table. The place lacked the classic one-way glass so popular on television and in police stations, but I was sure hidden eyes were watching from cameras I couldn’t see. I put my head down on the table and tried to sleep, but every time I started to drop off, I jerked awake with the sensation that something large and dark was watching and waiting for me. Fucking unconscious mind. 
I scrolled on. Scientific terms that meant nothing. Then, toward the end of the alphabetical list, I came to the word QUETZAL. 
What was that? I clicked on it and—lo and behold—up came a short list of names. Six in all, organized by dates about a year apart, and each a woman. 
My God. First I assumed they were patients from Quetzal Manor who'd come here for fertility treatment, though each was indicated "terminated" at the end, whatever that meant. But as I scanned down, I didn't want to see what I was seeing. The name next to the last was S. Crenshaw. She'd been "ter­minated" too. 
The bottom was M. James. But I hadn't been "termi­nated." Not yet. 
I slumped back in the chair, trying to breathe. How much more of this horror could I handle? Finally I leaned forward again and with a trembling hand clicked on S. Crenshaw. 
A lot of data popped up, including three important dates. The first was exactly three weeks after the one in her pass­port, the Guatemalan entry visa. The second was ten months ago, the third eight months ago. After each was a number: 268, followed by 153, and finally 31. 
I took a choking, ragged breath and leaned against the side of the van. I had to move, I kept telling myself. Had to move. 
I pushed off and stumbled away, at an angle so I was still hidden from the SUVs and the majority of the men I’d taken out. Just in case there were any more. I smacked into the cement of the overpass and slid down, breathing shallowly. The cement was cool. I pressed myself against it. 
My head was ringing—or maybe it was my ears, or maybe it was a combination and I was concussed again. I concentrated. I have a fine-tuned awareness of my own body—it’s necessary for me to align with the mathematics to take out mooks, but it’s also terribly convenient for injuries. 
Of course, that assumes I can concentrate. 
It took me a few minutes, but I figured it out. Both ear trauma and another concussion. Fantastic. And I was suffering damage from the heat, my system going haywire in a dozen minor ways. Lungs. Skin. Eyes. Throat. My stomach flipping into nausea in response, as if it thought it could vomit up everything that was wrong. 
> We were jamming at the Embarcadero tonite and goofing around giving everyone a new car key or door key or Fast Pass or FasTrak, tossing around a little fake gunpowder. There were cops everywhere but we were smarter than them; we're there pretty much every night and we never get caught. 
> So we got caught tonight. It was a stupid mistake we got sloppy we got busted. It was an undercover who caught my pal and then got the rest of us. They'd been watching the crowd for a long time and they had one of those trucks nearby and they took four of us in but missed the rest. 
> The truck was JAMMED like a can of sardines with every kind of person, old young black white rich poor all suspects, and there were two cops trying to ask us questions and the undercovers kept bringing in more of us. Most people were trying to get to the front of the line to get through questioning so we kept on moving back and it was like hours in there and really hot and it was getting more crowded not less. 
> At like 8PM they changed shifts and two new cops came in and bawled out the two cops who were there all like wtf? aren't you doing anything here. They had a real fight and then the two old cops left and the new cops sat down at their desks and whispered to each other for a while. 
“Miss, I’m going to have to ask you to leave the premises,” he said, his superior tone already grating on my nerves. “Did you drive here?” 
“No. I walked. I’m good.” And Tresting thought my first response was always to punch people. See? I can behave. “I’m good. I’m leaving.” 
Another security guard strode quickly out of the store, a tall woman built like a brick. “Ma’am, the cashier says you didn’t show an ID for the alcohol.” She registered the half-empty bottle in my hand. “Ma’am, you can’t drink that here.” 
“Yes, I’ve heard,” I said grumpily. “I already told him, I’m leaving.” 
“Ma’am, could we see an ID, please?” 
I put down the bottles and felt around in my pockets, in my pants and then in my jacket. And felt around again. 
Shit. 
I always carry a few fake IDs; I never know when I might need one. But along with my Colt, the Colombians had taken everything in my pockets when they’d captured me three days ago, and replacing my ID had completely slipped my mind. My scrambling fingers found that over the past few days I had accumulated a knife, several spare magazines, some loose ammunition, a couple of grenades from the other night, and a bunch of cash, but no IDs. 
“I will be in a minute.” I picked my way through the debris and slipped weapons out of the lifeless fingers of Tresting’s teenage attackers. The girl by the window had been toting a TEC-9 illegally converted to full auto; the others had two Glocks and a cheap and ugly Smith & Wesson semiautomatic. Jesus, it was irritating enough they had to be so young; couldn’t they at least do us the courtesy of carrying nice hardware? 
Tresting had his phone to his ear as he reloaded; he left a terse message for Dr. Kingsley to take her son, get somewhere anonymous, and call him back. He hung up and holstered the Beretta, then reached back into his safe to hoist out a shotgun that I didn’t need my math ability to tell was far too short to be legal. He wrapped it in a spare shirt like a bundle of curtain rods and completely ignored me when I raised my eyebrows at him. 
“Your prints and DNA are here,” he said instead. “That going to be a problem?” 
“They’d need something to compare ’em to,” I answered. “How about you?” 
"What?" she said. 
"You're not putting me on. Amazing. Patricia Lourdes McCavity, you have felled an empire and you are setting yourself up to fell another -- and it's one that I'm pretty heavily invested in, both professionally and financially." 
"Come on," she said. "I'm good, but I'm not superwoman. I was part of a team." 
"I've read your briefs. Position papers. Opinions. Speeches. Hell, your press-releases. They were the most cogent, convincing explanations for intellectual property reform I'd ever read. You weren't the judge, but you were his clerk. You weren't the committee chairman, but you were her head staffer. Taco Bell underestimated you. Coke...  you. Disney underestimated you. Vivendi and Sony underestimated you. Now you're running your own organization, and it's pointed at me, and I'm scared shitless, you want to know the truth. I'm not underestimating you." He'd drawn his dark eyebrows together while he spoke, and lowered his head, so that he was looking up at her from under his brow, looking intense as the day they'd met, when he was delivering a brilliant lecture on ant-colony optimization to a large lay audience at the law-school, fielding the Q&A with such convulsive humor and scalding lucidity that he'd melted her heart. 
If you ever decide to do something as stupid as build an automatic terrorism detector, here's a math lesson you need to learn first. It's called "the paradox of the false positive," and it's a doozy. 
Say you have a new disease, called Super-AIDS. Only one in a million people gets Super-AIDS. You develop a test for Super-AIDS that's 99 percent accurate. I mean, 99 percent of the time, it gives the correct result -- true if the subject is infected, and false if the subject is healthy. You give the test to a million people. 
One in a million people have Super-AIDS. One in a hundred people that you test will generate a "false positive" -- the test will say he has Super-AIDS even though he doesn't. That's what "99 percent accurate" means: one percent wrong. 
What's one percent of one million? 
One in a million people has Super-AIDS. If you test a million random people, you'll probably only find one case of real Super-AIDS. But your test won't identify one person as having Super-AIDS. It will identify 10,000 people as having it. 
The mean boy was there, right in front of her, and she could smell the chili crisps on his breath. “You disgusting whore—” he began and she kneed him square in the nadgers, hard as she could, and he screamed like a little girl and fell backwards. She picked up her schoolbag and ran for the door, her chest heaving, her face streaked with tears. 
“Anda, dear, there’s a phone call for you.” 
Her eyes stung. She’d been lying in her darkened bedroom for hours now, snuffling and trying not to cry, trying not to look at the empty desk where her PC used to live. 
Her da’s voice was soft and caring, but after the silence of her room, it sounded like a rusting hinge. 
“Anda?” 
She opened her eyes. He was holding a cordless phone, sillhouetted against the open doorway. 
“Who is it?” 
“Someone from your game, I think,” he said. He handed her the phone. 
“Hullo?” 
“Hullo chicken.” It had been a year since she’d heard that voice, but she recognised it instantly. 
“Liza?” 
“Yes.” 
Anda’s skin seemed to shrink over her bones. This was it: expelled. Her heart felt like it was beating once per second, time slowed to a crawl. 
No! My God, had somebody been listening in? 
So when exactly was he coming? Around dark? That would probably be about eight o'clock. Or maybe nine . . . 
I was closing the phone case when I heard a sound from outside, as though someone had passed the door, then come back to listen. 
All right. Get going. 
I gathered the printouts, then headed back through the laboratory, where I took a long, last look at the petri dishes being incubated. Should I just dump them now? But then he'd know for sure that I knew. 
The time would come, and soon. 
As I eased myself back into the fake-stone OR and closed the door, the dawn outside was steeped in forest sounds, clacks and whistles and chirps. That was good, because I needed some stray noise to mask what I was going to do next. Take control. 
I began by feeling along the fake-stone walls to find where the crevices were, the doors that enclosed the medical in­struments. Somewhere, I was sure, there was a cabinet that held a complete set of surgical equipment. 
“Seriously?” I asked, wondering why I hadn’t seen this com- ing. It’s not like I don’t hear people tell me I’m do young to do stuff all the time. 
Sarah frowned. It made me wish I had eyebrows as thick as hers. They looked ferocious. “How curious that a system that tries children as adults when it’s convenient won’t take them seriously when they’re volunteering to help the authorities.” 
“Damn,” Tyler said. “We should have realized ... I mean, no offense, Nikko, but we should have done this with adults.” 
“That’s stupid,” I blurted out. “He’s as good an actor as anyone else.” 
“That’s not what Tyler meant,” Ian said. “We shouldn’t have involved kids in this. Not given the risks.” 
“This whole thing was my idea,” I said. “You think we don’t know the risks? It should be our choice.” 
I couldn’t speak, too stunned by the betrayal. Shad was trust- worthy. Shad was respected. But I was just a kid, one who wasn’t allowed to carry out the plan that was her idea in the first place. 
“That’s a load of garbage,” Zeke said, crumpling up a piece of paper and throwing it at Ian’s head. 
As I fell asleep, the press-conference came back. I was really proud of it. It had been so cool, to have all these big-shot journos show up in the game, to have them listen to me and to have them listen to all the people who believed in the same things as me. I dropped off with a smile on my lips. 
I should have known better. 
Those were the good headlines. Everyone sent me the articles to blog, but it was the last thing I wanted to do. 
I'd blown it, somehow. The press had come to my press-conference and concluded that we were terrorists or terrorist dupes. The worst was the reporter on Fox News, who had apparently shown up anyway, and who devoted a ten-minute commentary to us, talking about our "criminal treason." 
"They say they don't have a name. I've got one for them. Let's call these spoiled children Cal-Quaeda. They do the terrorists' work on the home front. When -- not if, but when -- California gets attacked again, these brats will be as much to blame as the House of Saud." 
Leaders of the anti-war movement denounced us as fringe elements. One guy went on TV to say that he believed we had been fabricated by the DHS to discredit them. 
"Please," Lawrence said. "I'm -- I'm not used to how things are around here. There's probably some way I could ask you this that would put you at your ease, but I don't know what it is. I'm not good with people. But I really need to find this person, she used to live here." 
The man stopped, looked at him again. He seemed to recognize something in Lawrence, or maybe it was that he was disarmed by Lawrence's honesty. 
"Why would you want to do that?" 
"Let me guess, none of my neighbors wanted to help you." 
"You're only the second guy I've asked, but yeah, pretty much." 
"Out here in the real world, we don't really talk about each other to strangers. Too much like being a snitch. Lucky for you, my sister's in the Order, out in Oregon, so I know you're not all a bunch of snoops and stoolies. Who're you looking for?" 
Lawrence felt a rush of gratitude for this man. "Anja Krotoski, number 11-J?" 
"Oh," the man said. "Well, yeah, I can see why you'd have a hard time with the neighbors when it comes to old Anja. She was well-liked around here, before she went." 
"She seems to be turnin' out smart enough lately, but she's consid'able heedless," answered Miranda, "an' most too lively." 
"We must remember that it is deficient, not excessive vitality, that makes the greatest trouble in this world," returned Mr. Burch. 
"She'd make a wonderful missionary," said Mrs. Burch; "with her voice, and her magnetism, and her gift of language." 
"If I was to say which of the two she was best adapted for, I'd say she'd make a better heathen," remarked Miranda curtly. 
"My sister don't believe in flattering children," hastily interpolated Jane, glancing toward Mrs. Burch, who seemed somewhat shocked, and was about to open her lips to ask if Rebecca was not a "professor." 
Mrs. Cobb had been looking for this question all the evening and dreading some allusion to her favorite as gifted in prayer. She had taken an instantaneous and illogical dislike to the Rev. Mr. Burch in the afternoon because he called upon Rebecca to "lead." She had seen the pallor creep into the girl's face, the hunted look in her eyes, and the trembling of the lashes on her cheeks, and realized the ordeal through which she was passing. Her prejudice against the minister had relaxed under his genial talk and presence, but feeling that Mrs. Burch was about to tread on dangerous ground, she hastily asked her if one had to change cars many times going from Riverboro to Syria. She felt that it was not a particularly appropriate question, but it served her turn. 
Nikko looked at Bree and they both got out and took flash- lights back into the woods. 
“What’s going on, anyway?” Wheeze asked me. 
“I’m working with some friends to turn the tables on the feds. 
Something a little more subversive than the protest, though that turned out to be actually bigger than I expected.” 
“I liked it on Facebook. Just kidding.” He gave me a lopsided grin. “Though I looked at the Solidarity site before I had to bail and wrecked my phone, which is how I knew where to send Danny. Nothing like having a loaded grain hopper roll over a phone to make it easy to disassemble it into small parts.” 
“I’m just glad it wasn’t you getting disassembled.” 
“No kidding. One kid I used to travel with, he lost a leg. I wasn’t there when it happened, but I heard about it.” 
“Maybe you should give up this hobby of yours.” 
“Soon as the FBI gives up looking for me.” He grinned, then looked wiped out suddenly. His breathing was rough and loud, 
like when he had bronchitis and everyone started calling him Wheeze. “I was getting really scared.” 
"Her first duty 's to her mother," said aunt Jane; "I hope she'll always remember that." 
"Nobody remembers anything they'd ought to,—at seventeen," responded Miranda. "Now that I'm strong again, there's things I want to consider with you, Jane, things that are on my mind night and day. We've talked 'em over before; now we'll settle 'em. When I'm laid away, do you want to take Aurelia and the children down here to the brick house? There's an awful passel of 'em,—Aurelia, Jenny, and Fanny; but I won't have Mark. Hannah can take him; I won't have a great boy stompin' out the carpets and ruinin' the furniture, though I know when I'm dead I can't hinder ye, if you make up your mind to do anything." 
"I shouldn't like to go against your feelings, especially in laying out your money, Miranda," said Jane. 
"Don't tell Rebecca I've willed her the brick house. She won't git it till I'm gone, and I want to take my time 'bout dyin' and not be hurried off by them that's goin' to profit by it; nor I don't want to be thanked, neither. I s'pose she'll use the front stairs as common as the back and like as not have water brought into the kitchen, but mebbe when I've been dead a few years I shan't mind. She sets such store by you, she'll want you to have your home here as long's you live, but anyway I've wrote it down that way; though Lawyer Burns's wills don't hold more'n half the time. He's cheaper, but I guess it comes out jest the same in the end. I wan't goin' to have the fust man Rebecca picks up for a husband turnin' you ou'doors." 
Rebecca, Adam thought, as he took off his hat and saluted the pretty panorama,—Rebecca, with her tall slenderness, her thoughtful brow, the fire of young joy in her face, her fillet of dark braided hair, might have been a young Muse or Sibyl; and the flowery hayrack, with its freight of blooming girlhood, might have been painted as an allegorical picture of The Morning of Life. It all passed him, as he stood under the elms in the old village street where his mother had walked half a century ago, and he was turning with the crowd towards the church when he heard a little sob. Behind a hedge in the garden near where he was standing was a forlorn person in white, whose neat nose, chestnut hair, and blue eyes he seemed to know. He stepped inside the gate and said, "What's wrong, Miss Emma?" 
"Oh, is it you, Mr. Ladd? Rebecca wouldn't let me cry for fear of spoiling my looks, but I must have just one chance before I go in. I can be as homely as I like, after all, for I only have to sing with the school; I'm not graduating, I'm just leaving! Not that I mind that; it's only being separated from Rebecca that I never can stand!" 
“I know,” he said gently. “You meant to help, and I’m glad you did it. She’s better dead. This afternoon, for a little while, she was—herself. She talked to me. She was very weak, but she was herself. She asked me to help her not to take it again. She thought she was getting better. Then that”—he paused—“that damned brute brought in a lawyer, so that she could make her will. She couldn’t believe it. She looked up at me. ‘Oh, I’m not going to die , am I?’ she said. Before I could answer her, he told her she must be prepared. Then I—” 
Again he turned away. 
“And you let him alone?” inquired Houseman. 
“It’s not time to settle with him—yet,” said the other. “That’s why I came away, because I don’t want to kill him—yet. She’s unconscious now. She will be, until it’s finished. I’m going back later, but I wanted to come, here—” He ceased speaking. “To you,” his eyes said to Lexy. 
She forgot everything else, then, except this tormented and suffering human being who had turned to her for comfort. She pushed him gently down into a chair, and seated herself on the arm of it. She took both his hands and patted them, while she racked her brain for the right thing to say. 
“He has, on occasion,” Dawna continued, “turned his considerable skill set against organizations similar to Pithica. They did not fare well against him.” The corners of her mouth turned upward in a shadow of a wry smile. “You can see why we do not want to be his latest target.” 
“I think the ship’s already sailed on that one,” I said. 
“We are still hoping to change his mind.” 
Change his mind. Fuck. If Dawna could say one thing with confidence, it was that she could change anyone’s mind. 
Wait a minute. If they’d pierced Rio’s cover back with the cartel, and had known where he was, then why wasn’t he Pithica’s obliging tool already? He hadn’t known who Dawna was until she’d put the whammy on me; he wouldn’t have recognized her as a threat. She could have walked in and done her ESP thing on him without arousing the least suspicion. Unless—I felt my eyes widen. 
Dawna smiled at me. “Your deduction is correct. My insights—those that help us relate so well to people—they fail us here. Mr. Sonrio is, as I am sure you know, a special case.” 
She arose that morning and feasted on brown rolls with hard crusts, small citrus cakes, green beef tea, porridge with currants and blueberry concentrate and...  bun to top it off. 
Trover ate even more than she did, licking up the crumbs. She saw him hide two of the jackfruits under his shirt and nodded satisfaction—he had learned something about surviving, then. 
Her mother had not questioned the food nor the clothes nor her daughter’s absence that night. But oh, she had given Valentine a look when she came through the door carrying all her parcels, a look that said, not my daughter any more . Not a look that refused what she bore, but a look that refused her . Valentine didn’t bother trying to explain. She knew what her mother suspected and it was better in some ways than the truth. 
Her mother... She ate sardines on toast, green beef tea, and a heap of...  herring, then she put on her uniform and took up her gun and went out the door, without a look back at Valentine. 
By the end of the week, she won’t have to worry about me , Valentine thought. The fever made her fingers shake, but she still drank her hot chocolate. 
He stared at me incredulously. 
"Morgy, you of all people should know by now that adopt­ing would take up all your energy, like a giant sponge. Come on. I've seen your dailies. I got it, about how hard it is. You telling me now you didn't get it?" 
He was right. Righter than he realized. But then I thought again about Carly Grove, who'd found Kevin in no time at all, with zero hassles. The only troubling part was that it was all so mysterious. . . . 
After I left David's office, I remembered I hadn't actually had lunch, so I grabbed two hot dogs with sauerkraut (okay, it was junk, but I secretly loved kosher...  from one of the striped-umbrella vendors, then hailed a cab clutching the grungy brown bag. 
I was heading for Hannah Klein's office on the Upper West Side. And now I had another clock ticking in addition to the biological one. The big money clock in the sky was suddenly on final countdown. 
I t took only a few minutes for Hannah Klein's assistant, Lori, to run the pregnancy test that confirmed my suspicions and settled my future. Steve's and my final attempt, another intrauterine insemination (IUI, med-speak for an expensive "turkey baster") with the last of his deposit, had failed. The end. The bitter end. 
"What?" 
"Shut up, dickhead. You think you're in danger? I'm in just as much danger, Marcus. It's called guilt by association. When you go, I go." She had her jaw thrust out at a mutinous angle. "You and I -- we're together now. You have to understand that." 
We sat down on the bed together. 
"Unless you don't want me," she said, finally, in a small voice. 
"You're kidding me, right?" 
"Do I look like I'm kidding?" 
"There's no way I would voluntarily go without you, Ange. I could never have asked you to come, but I'm ecstatic that you offered." 
She smiled and tossed me my keyboard. 
"Email this Masha creature. Let's see what this chick can do for us." 
I emailed her, encrypting the message, waiting for a reply. Ange nuzzled me a little and I kissed her and we necked. Something about the danger and the pact to go together -- it made me forget the awkwardness of having sex, made me freaking horny as hell. 
We were half naked again when Masha's email arrived. 
> Two of you? Jesus, like it won't be hard enough already. 
“But this is idiotic!” she thought, annoyed and surprised. 
Still the tears welled up. She gulped down the rest of her tea hastily, hoping that it would steady her, but it did not help at all. Sobs rose in her throat, and an immense and formless sorrow came over her. 
“This has got to stop!” she thought, in alarm. “I can’t be such a chump!” 
She turned to Mrs. Quelton. 
“Are you going to grow any—” she began, but her voice was so unsteady that she had to stop for a moment. “Any flowers in—in your—g-garden?” 
The question ended in a loud and unmistakable sob. They all turned to look at her, startled and anxious. 
She made a desperate effort to regain control of herself. 
“S-snapdragon,” she said. “So—so p-pretty!” 
Then, suddenly, all her defenses gave way. The teacup fell from her hand and was shattered on the floor, and, burying her head in her arms, she cried as she had never cried in her life. 
Mrs. Quelton stood beside her, one hand resting on Lexy’s shoulder. Captain Grey was bending over her, profoundly disturbed. She tried to speak, but she could not. 
Arthur froze. 
“Well, there might be some torture first or something, but only if Dawna has the stomach to ask for it.” 
He threw up. 
“This is my fault,” Arthur kept mumbling, doubled over and retching. “I—she convinced me, oh, Lord—I listened —why did I listen? Oh, God, I trusted her—” 
“At least we know that once our lovely Dawna Polk seduces someone, she can shove him back the other way if she wants to,” I said. “Congratulations, it looks like you’ve been un-brainwashed. Though if you ever sell out Rio again, I will fucking kill you.” 
His expression was stricken. I wasn’t even sure he heard me. 
I sighed. “Besides, shouldn’t I be the one who gets to freak out here? All you’re doing is having a guilt complex meltdown. I think the impending death thing trumps that.” 
“How can you be—you’re cracking jokes?” He sounded broken. 
“What would you like me to do?” I asked. “Panic?” 
To be honest, I wasn’t sure why I wasn’t panicking. If Dawna had gotten to Rio, well, then he would kill me. But as soon as I had realized the implication of her words, it was as if she’d explained she wanted to set pi equal to three on pain of death and expected me to take it seriously. 
The chopper clawed the air and lifted him up over Manhattan, the canyons of steel stretched out below him like a model. The racket of the chopper obliterated any possibility of speech, so he could ignore the pilot and she could ignore him with a cordiality that let him pretend, for a moment, that he was a powerful executive who nonchalantly choppered around over the country. They hugged the coastline and the stately rows of windmills and bobbing float-homes, surfers carving the waves, bulldozed strips topped with levees that shot up from the ground like the burial mound of some giant serpent. 
Leon's earmuffs made all the sound -- the sea, the chopper -- into a uniform hiss, and in that hiss, his thoughts and fears seemed to recede for a moment, as though they couldn't make themselves heard over the white noise. For the first time since he'd walked out of Ate, the nagging, doubtful voices fell still and Leon was alone in his head. It was as though he'd had a great pin stuck through his chest that had been finally removed. There was a feeling of lightness, and tears pricking at his eyes, and a feeling of wonderful obliteration , as he stopped, just for a moment, stopped trying to figure out where he fit in the world. 
Part of me had still been suspicious of a trap, but instead we were in a tastefully furnished office with a broad wooden desk backed by several comfortingly decorative tall houseplants. Plants. It was absurdly normal. The only thing in the place that hinted the office didn’t belong to a tax lawyer was a tall gun safe abutting the file cabinets against one wall. 
“Come in,” said Tresting, going behind his desk and pulling one of the client chairs around with him so he could gesture me to sit. He powered on a sleek desktop computer with dual monitors that booted into some Unix-based variant of operating system. I squinted at him in surprise. 
“My tech guy set it up,” he explained. 
“Speaking of, when is he getting here?” 
“Right now,” said Tresting, opening a video chat link. 
A clear image of a room snapped into focus on one monitor, and my immediate impression was the lair of someone who was one-third hacker, one-third supervillain, and one-third magpie. Bundles of wiring and edges of hardware I didn’t recognize filled the whole view, and multiple monitors showing abstract screensavers backlit the darkened space, racked one over the other to create a wall of screens. The dim light silhouetted a man who sat presiding over his nest of computers, and as the chat link came alive, he turned to face us, levering one side of what I realized was a wheelchair around to bring himself closer to the camera. He was surprisingly young, probably Tresting’s junior by two decades, and was one of the skinniest men I’d ever seen, with a skinny lean face, a skinny little goatee, and skinny long fingers, which he steepled under his chin as his eyes flicked over us. A manic grin lit up his narrow face. 
Emma leans close to Ray, whispers. "They get an hour of liberty before bedtime. Most of the time, they watch vids." 
"I love Captain Shadow." 
She gives him an impenetrable look, blinking slowly. 
"Run pirates, run pirates, run pirates, hey!." He sings along with the theme music, grinning. He and Little B used to do this every day after school. "Run Carok, fast as you may! But Shadow's gonna get you anyway!" 
Emma says, "Oh my god." 
"What? Everybody knows Captain Shadow." 
It isn't just Emma staring at him. A dozen heads turn his direction, a dozen sets of wide eyes. Ray can't tell if he's just amazed them with his video trivia aplomb or his weird old guy stupidity. The kid nearest to him, 
probably seven or eight, dark hair and pale, sickly complexion, peers up at him through lidded eyes. 
"You like Captain Shadow?" 
"Duh," Ray shoots back. "Which one is this?" 
"The one where Carok tries to blow up the colony's shield generator by sneaking up through the caves." 
Ray makes a sour face, rolls his eyes. "Ugh. After Shadow added Godara Jengo to the crew? I hate him. He's such a loser, and he's not very funny. " 
The woods had a high canopy, which was good news. When they started out, they'd focused on getting above the leaf-line, since leaves badly scattered RF signals, but they'd ended up with networks that were only reachable by people who were twenty feet off the ground. They'd blown a fortune downlinking the relays to ground-level stations with yagi antennae. 
But then Lee-Daniel had had a brainstorm -- build the network below the leaf-line. Heavy canopy starved out any foliage that grew below the tree-tops, leaving a clear line-of-sight (modulo the treetrunks, which were largely RF transparent) on the forest floor. That pushed CogRad from a theoretical project to a real success, and Akwesahsne was just the sort of woods that the CogRad gear thrived in. Within a week, the entire Rez would be unwired at 500 megabits/second, enough connectivity to move whatever data they could find a use for. 
The frontmost Warrior, a girl of about 16, started off treating Elaine's halts as a nuisance, but after the fifth one, when Elaine unshipped some especially tasty laser-based theodolites and a high-sensitivity digital altimeter, the girl's curiosity overcame her, and she crowded in close to watch Elaine work. She didn't say anything, but thereafter, it was clear that she was fascinated by Elaine and her masterful use of all her toys, bangles and bobs. 
"He was hurting you even then, wasn't he?" 
"That's just the way he is. He's cruel, mean. Frederick is weak, and he knows it. He takes it out on others." 
"Emma," Ray says, quiet and firm. "Do you believe he would hurt the Trust children? Do you think he's really capable of that?" 
She barks, like a laugh, but not really. Disgusted. "He's capable of anything. Especially if it's cruel." 
Okay, that's clear enough. All Ray has left is to close the circle, ask the obvious question, but there's no way he can do it without sounding like an investigator, like a cop greedy for answers. 
Did he kill Micah? Would he do such a thing? 
But he can't ask, not Emma, not when he's already treated her so badly with lies. She deserves better from him than to have her past dredged for evidence. 
So he doesn't. He'll get what he needs without making her culpable.  "Tomorrow? Lunch?" he asks. 
"Dinner. Goodnight." 
He brings up the data again. Digital representations of trace tissue samples that he's been over a hundred times, bits of non-Micah DNA and mitochondrial RNA that have been force grown from loose clusters of sticky foreign cells, scoured, scanned, splatted against a stupid number of identification loci along the relevant helical strands. He's taken the profile results and crammed them through every known DNA database from military to medical to criminal, each database assaulted separately, then aggregated, then in every conceivable combination. 
Professor Halliday’s words echoed in my ears all the way back to my current apartment, as if my skull were empty with only her voice rattling around inside. 
Collaborate with me. We work well together. 
I shook my head, violently, as if that would fling the words out, make me forget what we had just done. 
I went inside and sat down at my table. I had some printouts on it, some journal papers I’d been reading before this case started. A lifetime ago. 
I picked one up. One of the latest advancements in number theory. 
I glanced it over. I’d read to the end of this one already. The final conclusion included questions for future research. 
Number theory. 
Number theory was easy. Piece of cake, I told myself, the claim trembling even in my thoughts. 
I looked at the questions, picked up a pen, and turned the sheet of paper over. The blank back stared up at me, ready to envelop me. 
I put the pen against the paper. Considered the first question in the future research section. 
Do the upper and lower bounds proved here for g(k) hold true for all n? 
Redundancy never hurt anybody. He grabs the tumbler offered to him almost greedily and immediately shoots half of the scotch in one swallow. He grunts with distinct pleasure as it goes down, and the grin is larger and more sincere when he is done.  In turn, Ray sips his vodka and allows the interruption to help them shift gears. He marks that Becker hasn't mixed anything for himself. 
Sorensen is likeable enough. Tall and broad shouldered, well into his forties, but fit enough to whip a man half his age. His blond hair is neither thinning nor showing signs of tending toward gray. He is, in short, a Viking cliche— all the way down to his fiery temper and questionable impulse control. He is also a brilliant naval tactician and has won enough battle citations that the shipping freight from Terra to deliver his medals alone would have bankrupted a small country. He has also been, at least in Ray's estimation, a model of restraint given the duress the FSA had placed him under. Everything he said was true, or accurate enough that Ray sometimes wishes he could do a better job of playing the disciplined crewman's role. Unfortunately, it just isn't in him. Couldn't muster the energy for it if he had to. Somewhere in his personnel file, buried in a sealed vault deep underground beneath a federal agency that probably didn't officially exist, he was fairly certain his psych profile contained the words "does not work well in team settings". 
“This won’t do!” she said to herself. “It’s disgusting, mawkish self-pity, and nothing else. I’m young and healthy, and I can always find a job. What I want to think about now is Caroline, and what I ought to do for her.” 
So she did begin to think about Caroline. The first thought that came into her head was such an extraordinary one that it startled her. 
“Anyhow, she’s a pretty lucky girl!” 
Lucky? Caroline, who had lived like a prisoner, and who had now so strangely disappeared, lucky—simply because a sunburned, blue-eyed young man was so miserably anxious about her? 
“I suppose he’s thinking about her this minute,” Lexy reflected; “and I’m sure nobody in the world is thinking about me. Well, I don’t care!” 
The car took them to a drowsy little village, and stopped before a small cottage on a side street. Mrs. Enderby got out, followed by Lexy, the living ghost of Caroline. Side by side they went up the flagged path and on to the porch. Mrs. Enderby rang the bell, and in a moment the door was opened by a thin, sandy-haired woman in spectacles. 
"Of course." He nodded. "Whenever you wish." 
"I was thinking, as soon as possible." 
"Then I'll send Marcelina to take you, the minute she's finished downstairs. But I assumed you might want to at least unpack first." 
With that he disappeared as quietly as he'd come. 
I walked over and stared out at the birds flitting past the slatted window, feeling my hopes go up. The colors and the freedom. I wanted to be one of them, to take Sarah and just fly away. . . . 
Then, feeling vaguely drowsy, I settled myself down on the edge of the bed. The next thing I knew, though, the cha­otic music of the birds had begun to sound amplified as though they were swirling down a long, echoing hallway. In spite of myself, I felt my consciousness begin to drift. 
Shit, that needle he just slammed into my arm. It wasn't to take blood you idiot. You suspected that, but he was too fast. Shit. Shit. Shit. Don't let him do it. Stay awake. 
But now the tunnel was growing. I pulled myself up and staggered in slow motion to the door and tried it, but it seemed to be locked. I couldn't really tell, though, because the tunnel was swallowing me. 
“I can win the war,” she said. 
The woman from the city wasn’t so fat anymore, but she still had her armor on. She was the one who’d told father he had to go to the war. She didn’t seem to recognize Valentine, though. 
She stared at Valentine. “I’m busy,” she said. 
“I know a—” Valentine searched for the word. “A profiteer who has access to hardened logic that the infowar doesn’t work against.” 
The woman from the city looked at her a little longer this time. “I’m very busy, little girl.” 
“I can bring you to him. He has working printers.” 
The woman pretended not to hear her. She stared down at a pile of papers in front of her, and it was clear to Valentine that she was only pretending to read them. 
Valentine led Trover to the woman’s desk and knocked all the papers off of it. 
“It’s illegal to be a profiteer. Don’t you want to at least arrest him?” 
“I’ll arrest you ,” the woman from the city said, grabbing her wrist. Valentine was ready for this. Her mother had taught her what to do about this. She bent the woman’s thumb back and squeezed it until she tumbled out of the chair and dropped to her knees. 
“Yes.” 
Anda’s skin seemed to shrink over her bones. This was it: expelled. Her heart felt like it was beating once per second, time slowed to a crawl. 
“Hullo, Liza.” 
“Can you tell me what happened today?” 
She did, stumbling over the details, back-tracking and stuttering. She couldn’t remember, exactly—did Lucy move on Raymond and Anda asked her to stop and then Lucy attacked her? Had Anda attacked Lucy first? It was all a jumble. 
“I see. Well it sounds like you’ve gotten yourself into quite a pile of poo, haven’t you, my girl?” 
“I guess so,” Anda said. Then, because she knew that she was as good as expelled, she said, “I don’t think it’s right to kill them, those girls. All right?” 
“Ah,” Liza said. “Well, funny you should mention that. I happen to agree. Those girls need our help more than any of the girls anywhere in the game. The Fahrenheits’ strength is that we are cooperative—it’s another way that we’re better than the boys. We care. I’m proud that you took a stand when you did—glad I found out about this business.” 
"There's no failure in my eyes," responded Adam, "but that was how the thing seemed to me!" 
"What did you think of her voice? Anything extry about it?" 
"Made the others sound poor and thin, I thought." 
"Well, I'm glad to hear your opinion, you bein' a traveled man, for mother says I'm foolish 'bout Rebecky and hev been sence the fust. Mother scolds me for spoilin' her, but I notice mother ain't fur behind when it comes to spoilin'. Land! it made me sick, thinkin' o' them parents travelin' miles to see their young ones graduate, and then when they got here hevin' to compare 'em with Rebecky. Good-by, Mr. Ladd, drop in some day when you come to Riverboro." 
"I will," said Adam, shaking the old man's hand cordially; "perhaps to-morrow if I drive Rebecca home, as I shall offer to do. Do you think Miss Sawyer's condition is serious?" 
"Well, the doctor don't seem to know; but anyhow she's paralyzed, and she'll never walk fur again, poor soul! She ain't lost her speech; that'll be a comfort to her." 
Her stare was getting intense. I pretended not to notice and studied the ceiling instead. 
“What happened in there?” Jones asked. Demanded, really, but at least we were off the name thing. 
“I tracked down Professor Halliday and rescued her,” I answered. 
“And your wise ass is going to give me a detailed account of every aspect of that statement, or I’m throwing you in a hole so deep light can’t hit the bottom. You read me?” 
Yeah, I understood, her sloppy physics metaphor notwithstanding. “And if I do that?” 
“Then we’ll see.” 
I gambled. “I want some guarantees.” 
She snorted a laugh. “Rich.” 
“I bet I can find who stole Halliday’s proof to begin with,” I said. Remarkably efficient, she had called me. “You said we can be on the same side. I’m willing to give that a go.” 
Her cheek twitched. “Because you were such a team player the first time around.” 
“You implanted a tracker in me!” 
She shook her head. “Here’s how this is going to work. You tell us everything you know about Halliday, and you give us your real identity and any aliases. If we feel like you’d be an asset at that point, we’ll talk. If not...we’ll have a different talk.” 
Elaine jumped down, holding her laserpointer in her hand. 
"Run!" Lee-Daniel said, shoving at the two surveyors, then taking off, running blindly in the moonlight, whacking into tree-trunks, tripping. 
The bus was crowded with CogRads and he vaulted up the steps and slammed into the driver's seat, authenticating on the palm-reader and putting the bus through its warm-up/lock-down urban defense checklist. He was vaguely aware of more bodies coming in, then he slammed the door-close button as the shutters unrolled over the windows. 
He hit the internal lights, stood and turned around. "Count off," he shouted, over the buzz of conversation. 
Automatically, MacDiarmid said, "One," as he had at every count since he'd signed on and gotten the first investor's chair. 
He turned to the Series A man expectantly. "Fuck that," he said, in an uncharacteristic burst of blue talk. "Drive, goddamit! Now!" 
Lee-Daniel pointed at him and said, "Two," then pointed at the Series B man and said, "Three." He pointed at the middle-managers behind him and they began to count off methodically. 
M oving on, my next stress-point was to meet with my young boss, the afore-noted David Roth, who was CEO and First Operating Kvetcher of Applecore Productions, a kinda-sexy guy whose heart was deeply engaged, often unsuccess­fully, with bottom lines. The issue was, I'd done today's shoot, the interview with Carly, without troubling to secure his okay. Without, in fact, telling him zip—the reason being I was afraid he wouldn't green-light the idea. Now my next move was to try to convince him what I'd just done was brilliant. 
Actually I liked David a lot, and hoped the occasional tangles we'd had over the film wouldn't stand in the way of a friendship. The truth is, you don't meet that many inter­esting, stable men in my line of work. Our artistic goals weren't always in sync, but all the same, he'd done an enor­mous favor for somebody close to me and for that I'd vowed to walk through fire for him. 
When I marched into his cluttered, dimly lit office, my mind still churning over Carly's strange adoption story, what I saw sent my problem-detector straight into the red. There, sitting across from him, was Nicholas Russo, a five-seven smoothie in a charcoal Brioni double-breasted, the gentleman David sometimes referred to as Nicky the Purse. Another land mine in my life. He operated off and on as Applecore's "banker" when cash flow got dicey and real banks got nervous. It was an arrangement of last resort, since Nicky's loans had to be serviced at two percent a week. Do the numbers: He doubled his money in a year. I knew too that putting money out to independent filmmakers was part of Nicky's attempt at a legitimate front; the real cash went onto the streets of Hell's Kitchen, just outside our door, where he got five percent a week. And Nicky's overdue notices were not sent through the mail. 
“That’s kind of what I thought.” He still sounded funny. 
I buried my face in the pillow. “Christ almighty, Checker. I have no idea what the hell you’re talking about.” 
“What was your name?” he said. “Before you were Cas Russell?” 
I felt as if I had been walking through the dark and had missed a step, even though I was still lying on the bed. The interview with the DHS flashed back to me, Agent Jones aggressive and in my face: What’s your real name? “That’s always been my name,” I said. 
“I don’t think it was.” Checker’s voice was very soft. 
“You’re on crack,” I snapped. “You’re trying to tell me what my name is?” 
“Who was it?” said Checker. “Who erased you?” 
“Who what?” 
“Prior to a few years ago, you don’t exist. I’m good, Cas. Who erased you?” 
“You background checked me?” I squawked. 
“Oh, don’t sound so shocked! Of course I background checked you. Arthur comes in with some new person, who works with you-know-who, not to mention I’m paranoid, Russell, as you well know; I background check everybody, just like you do! And you don’t exist more than a few years back.” He laughed a little, but it didn’t have much humor in it. “I always wanted to ask you who did it. Someone good, it had to be, to hide it from me—” 
"Read what you have, good or bad, little or much; I am excusing nobody." 
Dick Carter's head disappeared under the desk, while Living Perkins choked with laughter. 
Miss Dearborn laughed too; she was little more than a girl, and the training of the young idea seldom appealed to the sense of humor. 
"You must stay after school and try again, Rebecca," she said, but she said it smilingly. "Your poetry hasn't a very nice idea in it for a good little girl who ought to love duty." 
"It wasn't MY idea," said Rebecca apologetically. 
"That is better," Miss Dearborn answered, "though I cannot think 'going to smash' is a pretty expression for poetry." 
Having been instructed in the use of the indefinite pronoun "one" as giving a refined and elegant touch to literary efforts, Rebecca painstakingly rewrote her composition on solitude, giving it all the benefit of Miss Dearborn's suggestion. 
It would be false to say that one could ever be alone when one has one's lovely thoughts to comfort one. One sits by one's self, it is true, but one thinks; one opens one's favorite book and reads one's favorite story; one speaks to one's aunt or one's brother, fondles one's cat, or looks at one's photograph album. There is one's work also: what a joy it is to one, if one happens to like work. All one's little household tasks keep one from being lonely. Does one ever feel bereft when one picks up one's chips to light one's fire for one's evening meal? Or when one...  would fancy not. 
Quetzal Manor. An odd choice for a name, I'd thought. 
Some kind of bird sacred to the Maya Indians of Central America. But then Paula had mentioned at one point that he was very interested in indigenous Third World herbs and remedies. So maybe it fit. 
But still, one big puzzle kept coming back to haunt: How do you produce perfectly healthy siblings six months apart? (I actually called Carly and Paula back to verify the ages.) The more I thought about Kevin and Rachel, the more I realized they were so unmistakably related. 
Puzzling over that, I began to wonder if maybe I was on the verge of uncovering a blockbuster documentary. Could we be talking something approaching science fiction here? Making documentaries, you're always on the lookout for the unexpected, the fresh. So how about an organization that could obtain beautiful Caucasian babies seemingly at will, including peas-in-a-pod born a few months apart? I was al­ready framing a pitch to David in my mind. 
They hadn't. First off, to get a child in three or four months, you'd almost certainly have to go with foreign adoption. China was everybody's flavor of the month, because they favored older parents and also because the one-child-per-family policy there had ended up producing a wide-scale abandonment of girls (who were all those precious boys going to marry? I often found myself wondering). However, the shifting poli­tics there made the process very unreliable. A few months? Don't even think about it. 
Kilgore levels a disgusted glare at Ray. "All due respect, sir, but I don't give a shit if you don't want to talk about it. I don't give a shit about your need-to-know ideas or emergency contingencies. You need to tell us what's going on before I say to hell with this reassignment. We can't help you unless you give us something to  work with." 
This is the type of thing Marine sergeants have been doing with officers for five hundred years. Ray can't help but blink at him, dumbfounded himself. So this is what it feels like to be on the receiving end of an officer-sergeant ass reaming. He chuckles lightly in spite of himself, realizes that 'chuckling' is way too macho a description for it. By God, he's giggling. Giggling like he's losing his mind. Or do you cackle when your mind goes? He doesn't know. 
Rodriguez returns and slides a blistering...  
Fucking Marines, Ray thinks. And he tells them. All of it.   The event that at some point in the night came to be called Operation Boogey Man (alternately, Operation Booger Man, Booty Man, Boogie Down Man) does not begin as smoothly as Ray would have liked. In the morning, with the three of them still scrubbing sleep out of their eyes and the...  it becomes painfully apparent that Kilgore and Rodriguez had never qualified in Covert Urban Civilian Fashion. They go through much of their wardrobes of loud, baggy shirts and khaki cargo pants with too many utilitarian pockets and manage in none of the iterations to look like anything except Marines gearing up for espionage activities. Ray would have accepted a Marines-on-shore-leave theme since that fit with their backup cover story, but they couldn't even pull that off without looking like they had stuffed blocks of explosive putty in their pockets and kept pistols strapped under their arms. (This was partially due to the fact that Kilgore insisted on actually keeping a pistol there.) 
But my loopy, pain-drunk brain had been proven correct in the end, hadn’t it? I’d stuck the transmitter back in me and Arthur had mobilized hell and high water in the form of government agencies to come track me down, without even knowing Martinez had been taken, too. My trust might have been stupid, but it had also been right. He’d come for me. 
Fuck. The proof that would make me whole was gone, and in its place were these odd illogical human relationships that didn’t make any sense and that I’d been doing my level best to raze to the ground before this. 
“I’m sorry,” I blurted, before I could rethink the words. “For everything.” It wasn’t what I wanted to say, but my world was disintegrating, every hope folding into emptiness, and maybe all I could do was try to salvage what was left. 
If it was salvageable. If I hadn’t succeeded in destroying it, in my rampage to dig for something a dying woman insisted on taking beyond my reach anyway. 
Arthur took a minute to answer, using the time to pull up a chair and sit next to me. “Ain’t gonna lie,” he said quietly. “I was PO’d. It’s a two-way street, Russell, and you went off deliberate to work against us. When things went south on you, you could’ve gotten Martinez hurt bad.” He cleared his throat. “But you didn’t. And I forgive you. ’Cause that’s what friends do. Besides, I think you got all the comeuppance you need already. Just...don’t do it again.” 
“Thank you, Van. I’m sorry.” 
“No sweat,” he said. “You need a shower, bad. No offense.” 
“None taken.” 
The Shoppers had a metal security gate, but it had been torn away from the front windows, which had been rudely smashed. Felix and Van squeezed through the gap and stepped into the dim drug-store. A few of the displays were knocked over, but other than that, it looked OK. By the cash-registers, Felix spotted the racks of candy bars at the same instant that Van saw them, and they hurried over and grabbed a handful each, stuffing their faces. 
“You two eat like pigs.” 
They both whirled at the sound of the woman’s voice. She was holding a fire-axe that was nearly as big as she was. She wore a lab-coat and comfortable shoes. 
“You take what you need and go, OK? No sense in there being any trouble.” Her chin was pointy and her eyes were sharp. She looked to be in her forties. She looked nothing like Kelly, which was good, because Felix felt like running and giving her a hug as it was. Another person alive! 
She nodded again. They’d worn flattering, tight-fitting calf-high trousers, cutaway coats, tummy-revealing crop-tops, and feathered confections for hats. 
“Everyone who does magic has an assistant or two. I’m the wizard and I do the best magic of all, and so I have need of more assistants than most. I have an army of assistants, and they help me out and I help them out.” 
“I’m leaving in five days,” she said. 
“The kind of favor I had in mind from you was the kind of favor that you could perform the day after tomorrow.” 
“And you’d take care of my family?” 
“I would do that,” he said. “I always take care of my assistants’ families. Do we have an agreement?” 
She stuck her hand out and they shook. 
“Eat your dumplings,” he said. “And then we’ll get you some things to take home to your family.” 
Two days after the wizard agreed to take care of Valentine’s family, the fever had become her constant companion, so omnipresent that it she hardly noticed it, though it made her walk like an old woman and she sometimes had trouble focusing her eyes. 
“The house?” 
“Oh, yeah. So what happened is that he and some of his friends started occupying this house that had been foreclosed, 
only nobody ever came to kick them out. My guess is it got tied up in some bundled mortgage schemes and the paperwork got lost. 
So they’ve been squatting there and nobody cared.” 
“I was afraid of that. Even if we can get the terrorism charge to go away, they could be charged with property crimes. Is there a chance that police will have found illegal drugs on the premises?” 
“No doubt. None of those guys are into drugs in a big way, but I’m sure somebody would have had some weed around.” 
“What about guns?” 
“No way. They wouldn’t ... I mean ...” I stumbled to a stop and then started over. “Well, honestly, I can’t be sure. It’s been a while since I talked to Wilson, and things were getting weird even back then.” 
“Weird in what way?” 
“Before Zip showed up, this was a house full of totally laid- back kids who were kind of a family, right? Because none of them had families where they felt like they belonged. They made their own rules and they got along fine and they didn’t bother any- body.” 
But she did. She knocked, and she was answered. She turned the handle and went in. An oil lamp stood on the bureau, and outside the circle of its mellow light, in the shadow, Mrs. Quelton was sitting on the edge of the bed; and it seemed to Lexy that she had never seen such a forlorn and pitiful figure. 
“Oh, my dear!” she cried impulsively, and held out her arms. 
Mrs. Quelton rose. She came toward Lexy, her hands outstretched—when a sudden cry from Mrs. Royce arrested her. 
“But that ain’t Mrs. Quelton!” cried the landlady. 
If Lexy had not caught the unhappy woman, she would have fallen; but those sturdy young arms held her, and, with Mrs. Royce’s help, they got her on the bed. White as a ghost, incredibly frail in her black dress, she lay there, scarcely seeming to breathe. 
“It ain’t Mrs. Quelton!” repeated Mrs. Royce, in a whisper. 
“I know!” said Lexy softly. “Will you get me water and a towel, please?” 
Mrs. Royce went out of the room, and Lexy knelt down beside the bed. She did know now—the woman whom they had all called Muriel Quelton was really Caroline Enderby. 
"Did you do anything to the place that made it better?" 
He shook his head. 
"So you did no productive labor but you wanted to get paid anyway, right? Have you thought about what would happen to society if we rewarded people for owning things instead of doing things?" 
"Are you sure you're a real estate broker?" 
"Board certified. Do very well, too." 
He swallowed. "I don't expect to make money for doing nothing, but you know, I just quit my job. I was just hoping to get a little cash in hand to help me smooth things out until I find a new one." 
The realtor gave a small nod. "Tough times ahead. Winds are about to shift again. You need to adjust your expectations, Leon. The best you can hope for right now is to get out of that place before you have to make another mortgage payment." 
His pulse throbbed in his jaw and his thigh in counterpoint. "But I need money to --" 
"Leon," she said, with some steel in her voice. "You're bargaining . As in denial, anger, bargaining, depression and acceptance. That's healthy and all, but it's not going to get your place sold. Here's two options: one, you can go find another realtor, maybe one who'll sugar coat things or string you along to price up something else he's trying to sell. Two, you can let me get on with making some phone calls and I'll see who I can bring in. I keep a list of people I'd like to see in this 'hood, people who've asked me to look out for the right kind of place. That place you're in is one of a kind. I might be able to take it off your hands in very quick time, if you let me do my thing." She shuffled some papers. "Oh, there's a third, which is that you could go back to your apartment and pretend that nothing is wrong until that next mortgage payment comes out of your bank-account. That would be denial and if you're bargaining, you should be two steps past that. 
"The parasol WAS silly," confessed Rebecca, hanging her head; "but it's the only time in my whole life when I had anything to match it, and it looked so beautiful with the pink dress! Emma Jane and I spoke a dialogue about a city girl and a country girl, and it came to me just the minute before I started how nice it would come in for the city girl; and it did. I haven't hurt my dress a mite, aunt Mirandy." 
"It's the craftiness and underhandedness of your actions that's the worst," said Miranda coldly. "And look at the other things you've done! It seems as if Satan possessed you! You went up the front stairs to your room, but you didn't hide your tracks, for you dropped your handkerchief on the way up. You left the screen out of your bedroom window for the flies to come in all over the house. You never cleared away your lunch nor set away a dish, AND YOU LEFT THE SIDE DOOR UNLOCKED from half past twelve to three o'clock, so 't anybody could 'a' come in and stolen what they liked!" 
Rebecca sat down heavily in her chair as she heard the list of her transgressions. How could she have been so careless? The tears began to flow now as she attempted to explain sins that never could be explained or justified. 
"I didn't think he'd do that," she said, once they were outside of the building -- outside the core of Viktor's body. 
"You tried to kill him," Leon said. He looked at her hands, which had blunt, neat fingernails and large knuckles. He tried to picture the tendons on their backs standing out like sail-ropes when the wind blew, as they did the rhythmic work of raising and lowering the...  her hands on her trousers and stuffed them in her pockets, awkward now, without any of her usual self-confidence. "I'm not ashamed of that. I'm proud of it. Not everyone would have had the guts. If I hadn't, you and everyone you know would be --" She brought her hands out of her pockets, bunched into fists. She shook her head. "I thought he'd tell you what we like about your grad project. Then we could have talked about where you'd fit in here --" 
"You never said anything about that," he said. "I could have saved you a lot of trouble. I don't talk about it." 
Ria shook her head. "This is Viktor. You won't stop us from doing anything we want to do. I'm not trying to intimidate you here. It's just a fact of life. If we want to replicate your experiment, we can, on any scale we want --" 
"Where'd she go? When?" 
"What's your name, friend?" 
"Lawrence." 
"Lawrence, Anja went . Middle of the night kind of thing. No one heard a thing. The CCTVs stopped working that night. Nothing on the drive the next day. No footage at all." 
"Like she skipped out?" 
"They stopped delivering flyers to her door. There's only one power stronger than direct marketing." 
"The Securitat took her?" 
"That's what we figured. Nothing left in her place. Not a stick of furniture. We don't talk about it much. Not the thing that it pays to take an interest in." 
"How long ago?" 
"Two years ago," he said. A few more residents pushed past them. "Listen, I approve of what you people do in there, more or less. It's good that there's a place for the people who don't -- you know, who don't have a place out here. But the way you make your living. I told my sister about this, the last time she visited, and she got very angry with me. She didn't see the difference between watching yourself and being watched." 
For some reason Halliday’s doubtfulness amused me this time. The woman had a spine—excellent. “Oh, that’s because you don’t know me,” I said, hoping it was true. “I’m very good.” 
“At what?” 
“Math.” 
Halliday blinked at me, then said with a perfectly straight face, “As am I. I do not believe that’s given me a solution for escaping through solid walls.” 
“I’ll figure something out,” I said. I leaned on the table and pushed myself up, ignoring the fact that I had to lean on it hard, or that I needed a moment to get my balance. 
The pages covering the table were filled with dense mathematical writing, in what I could only assume to be Halliday’s precise hand. I covered for my lack of equilibrium by frowning at them. The printed papers stacked to the side weren’t Halliday’s work, from what I could see—just background references. And the longhand sheets... 
“These are the notes you had stolen?” The bits of the algorithm matched up only raggedly, the connections between the insights missing. “Sorry, Professor, but this doesn’t exactly look complete.” 
"I'm going to ask my mother to let me wear her garnet ring," said Emma Jane. "It would look perfectly elergant flashing in the sun when I point to the flag. Good-by; don't wait for me going back; I may get a ride." 
Rebecca found the side door locked, but she knew that the key was under the step, and so of course did everybody else in Riverboro, for they all did about the same thing with it. She unlocked the door and went into the dining-room to find her lunch laid on the table and a note from aunt Jane saying that they had gone to Moderation with Mrs. Robinson in her carryall. Rebecca swallowed a piece of bread and butter, and flew up the front stairs to her bedroom. On the bed lay the pink gingham dress finished by aunt Jane's kind hands. Could she, dare she, wear it without asking? Did the occasion justify a new costume, or would her aunts think she ought to keep it for the concert? 
"I'll wear it," thought Rebecca. "They're not here to ask, and maybe they wouldn't mind a bit; it's only gingham after all, and wouldn't be so grand if it wasn't new, and hadn't tape trimming on it, and wasn't pink." 
“I think it’s the Lancer.” 
“Who’s that?” 
“A black hat hacker. A pretty infamous one. So much of what I’ve been trying to track has been wiped, and I just realized—it’s his style, exactly. The way the information’s gone missing—it’s like a shadow. His shadow.” 
“Wait a second,” I said. “Does this mean someone else would be able to trace me through data you’ve wiped? Because that doesn’t make me feel terribly secure—” 
“Oh, leave it to you to make it all about you. Come on, Cas. I’m the best. And whoever else—” He cut himself off with a cough. “It’s different. This guy left traces.” 
But whoever this was probably felt confident he’d wiped the evidence clean. Just like Checker felt confident. And with the NSA’s spying eyes being turned toward us right now...my thoughts soured. 
“It’s not like I can tell he did it,” Checker continued. “It’s more like, I can tell things are gone, and the work is trademark Lancer. Thus, I’m assuming. If the Lancer’s not one of the people who has her, then maybe he’s someone close to them. Or works for them.” 
I closed my eyes and pushed the thought away. I shouldn’t want it anymore, should I? This was like one of those old-style fables, the ones with the morals. I had chased the proof beyond reason, and it had led me to ruin. I should feel noble about letting it go and preach about the power of friendship over selfish desires. Or something. 
I couldn’t do it. 
I’d fucked up, badly, but volunteering to give up the chance to know Martinez’s proof was too high a penance. Too much to ask. Just the prospect felt like offering to saw off one of my own limbs. Something in me was broken, and willingly staying broken forever wasn’t something I could do, however much my guilt told me I might deserve it. 
I still needed the proof, no matter what Martinez or the NSA or the DHS had to say about it. 
But to salve my guilty conscience, I promised myself I would get it without going too far this time. I could bide my time. See what the Feds’ play was. 
A muscle in my leg twitched, then my right hand. Stupid muscles. 
Only one person had this number right now. It had to be Rio. “Not the best time; I’ll call you back,” I answered in a whisper. 
There was a pause. Then a voice on the other end said, “It’s Checker.” 
“Wha—this is a new phone!” I hissed. “How—?” 
“Oh, I’m all-powerful,” he said. “Hey, so I—” 
I didn’t have time for this right now. I hung up on him. 
What he needed was to learn to spell correctly. I moved my thumb to turn the damn phone off entirely. 
I sighed. Checker was the most annoying person I’d ever met. Evading arrest. Will call back later, I texted, and pocketed my phone again, turning my attention back to the problem at hand. 
Grabbing the evidence I’d left would probably be too complicated now. Dammit. I could have gotten away clean if I’d just kept walking, and now that I was boxed in, even escape was looking difficult. My hiding place felt more transparent by the moment, and I couldn’t think of any way out that wouldn’t lead to some version of a shootout. Which I would win...but at what cost? 
Ray swallows hard, kicking back the lump that's tried to creep up his throat and suffocate him. "Bobby, did you touch the body? Even just to check for a pulse?" 
"Didn't need to. I could see he was dead. And if he weren't dead, sir, he wouldn't have been thanking me sincerely for saving him at that point. " 
"That's okay," Ray says, trying to smile. "I didn't touch the body either." 
Kilgore shivers violently. "That's creepy. You really think he was still there? I mean, the killer, right there in the room with you? A guy who could do that to a kid? That creeps me out. I would have just had a freaking heart attack right there on the spot. The big stiffy, I'm telling you, swear to God. " 
"I don't think nothing," Diggs retorts quietly. "It could have just been my imagination after seeing that kid all tore up. I ain't the first guy to have seen something like that and had flashbacks to combat. That's why I left that out of my report. Security don't want to read about what's going on in my gut. They want evidence. A footprint, a handcuffed suspect, some spit they can pull the DNA out of. I didn't have none of those. " 
I ambled by his car, acting as though I was ignoring the innuendos of his pitch. Then I bolted for the back door, opened it myself since he was too startled to help, threw in my carry-ons, piled in behind them, and yelled, "Let's go. Rapido." 
As we sped away, I realized his greatest surprise was that I hadn't raised the subject of price. At that point, it was the last thing on my mind. I looked back to see the two guys from the black Land Rover, together with two others, heading for a car that had been double-parked right in front. 
Had I been right after all? 
We made a high-speed turn onto the highway, and I immediately ordered the driver to take a service road that led off toward a cluster of gas stations and parking lots with falling-down barbed-wire fences. I figured I had about half a minute of lead time, whatever was going on. 
We dodged massive potholes and the loose gravel flew, but then we reached a ramshackle gas station and I ordered him to pull in. Then I watched the line of traffic speeding by on the main highway for several minutes. Nobody pulled off. Good. 
He glared at me, and we hustled down the street. 
“Thought you said we’d play things my way,” Arthur said, when we were settled in another stolen car racing away from the scene. We hadn’t heard sirens behind us, but I was sure that even if Martinez hadn’t made the call, at this point I’d done it for her. 
“Right,” I said. “Sorry. What now?” 
As if on cue, Arthur’s phone buzzed. “Yeah,” he said, putting it on speaker. 
“We saw the explosion,” came Checker’s voice, not entirely steadily. “What the fuck are these guys on—” 
“Checker,” said Arthur. 
He cleared his throat. “The cops just arrived. And bomb squad.” 
“Good,” said Arthur. “What else have you got for us?” 
“You don’t want to talk about the fact that we just saw street cam footage of you two almost being blown to kingdom come? These people are—” 
“We tracked down Professor Halliday’s NSA friend,” cut in Pilar’s voice, as if she could sense Arthur’s growing impatience. “His name’s Dr. Xiaohu Zhang. He’s got a PhD from Berkeley and all the good creds; I think he and Professor Halliday know each other all the way back from then. And he’s been working as a mathematician for the NSA for almost twenty years. As far as we can tell, he’s a good guy. There’s nothing irregular in his bank accounts, he has a wife and three kids, he volunteers planting trees and coaching Little League...pretty much your typical all-American dad.” 
I kicked a metal door out of its frame to get into the next-door building and searched around until I found a peeling wooden staircase going up. The top floor didn’t actually have roof access, but I didn’t let that stop me. I gathered a tottering pile of junk, climbed up on top, and busted out the ventilation system from the rotting ceiling. This building was in terrible shape, and it didn’t take much for the air ducts to come crashing down along with a whole big chunk of roof, giving me my very own makeshift skylight. I leapt up, caught the edges of my hole, and clawed my way through until I tumbled out on the asphalt roofing. 
It was slightly soft where I stepped when I stood up. But it held my weight. 
I jogged over to the side of the roof. 
The blasted-open third floor was a lot closer and clearer from up here. The crooked edges of the concrete backtracked for me like I was watching the blast in reverse, showing me exactly how they’d set the charges. Breaking a window had detonated them, but I’d been right that an explosion from the second floor would’ve set everything off too. The rubble felt like the third act in a Rube Goldberg chain. 
“It’s Cas Russell,” I said. “I’m, uh...I’m here with Arthur, and we’re kind of hoping you aren’t dead.” I swallowed and thought again of Anton. “We both got whammied by Dawna Polk, but I’m pretty much back to normal. At least according to someone I trust. Arthur’s still a basket case, but I think he’s getting better.” 
Arthur reached out and tried to grab the phone away from me, but I leapt up off the swing and danced backward. “Call us back, okay? And whatever you do, don’t give Arthur back the flash drive. Dawna convinced him it’s meaningless, but I’m pretty sure it’s important.” 
I hung up. 
“He hasn’t called me back.” Arthur sounded sore. “What makes you think he’s going to call you back?” 
“Let’s wait and see,” I said. “Should we go back to the flat? It’s drier.” 
He stood. “Can I have my phone back now?” 
“No.” 
“Why not?” 
“Because if Checker calls back, I don’t want you to answer.” 
Arthur hunched into himself. “Really think he’s okay?” 
I looked out at the rain. I hoped we were right, but realistically? “I don’t know,” I said. My chest was aching badly now. “Let’s go back, yeah? I’ve got a car.” 
It responds with an affirmative-sounding squeak. 
"Release electromagnetic locks." 
Where there should be a click, there is only silence. Ray tries again. "Cut power stream to electromagnetic locks." 
The rat chitters hopefully at him, but that seems to be the extent of its assistance. Ray tugs on its torso a few more times with no better result. 
"This isn't good, buddy," he says. "You know what we're going to have to do now." 
It does not, in fact, know. Nor would it actually care if it did know. Ray understands this, but he hates it anyway. It's sloppy for one thing. And it offends him on a visceral level, mostly because it makes him feel queasy. 
He extracts himself from the rat and retrieves the small saw from the zippered thigh pocket of his coveralls. 
For a few tedious moments, he plugs in new batteries, exchanges blades, flips between settings. He doesn't want to have to monkey around with his equipment while he performs the surgery. Like a battlefield triage doctor, he wants the amputations completed with the minimum of fuss. 
Thank God it worked. I weaved in and among the trees and in five minutes I'd reached the central pathway, now deserted. Still barely letting myself breathe, I turned back and gazed up at the pyramid. I had no idea what was next, but I decided it would be my signpost, to help me keep my bearings as I moved through the confusing, tree-shrouded huts of Baalum . Except for the men in the square, the village now seemed deserted, though a pack of brown dogs, curious and annoying, had spotted me and now circled around to sniff. Don't bark, damn it. 
That was when I saw Marcelina, in her white shift, striding through the crowd of drinking men like an alpha lioness part­ing a posturing pride. My God. My heart stopped for a moment. Does Alex Goddard already know I've fled and has he sent her to lure me back? 
No way. I clenched my fists and kicked at the surly, long- tailed mutts, still circling and nuzzling. 
As she came closer, I saw she was smiling and carrying a brown wicker basket. What. . . 
"God, baby, what did he do to you?" 
No answer. 
"Come on, love. Please wake up." 
He didn't move, but his breathing was normal, not labored. I immediately decided I'd slap him around if I had to, any­thing to get him going and able to walk. 
"Honey, wake up. Please." I pulled his feet out of the bed and slid them around and onto the linoleum floor. I didn't know what kind of sedative he'd been injected with, but if I had to shake him out of it, fine. This was no time for half measures. "Come on ." 
I pulled him to his feet and dragged him across the floor to the slatted window at the rear of the room, where the predawn sounds of the forest beyond filled the air, mingled with the rain. What I needed was a...  breeze would have to do. 
It took ten minutes of working on him, with me barely able to hold a grasp on my own reality, but then his eyelids began to flutter. I kept talking to him, pleading and badger­ing, and when he finally started coming around, I began to walk him back and forth in front of the window. 
Oh, crap. Oh, fuck. How had I not thought of this before? Shit, I had mentioned Checker in my generous tell-all to Dawna, and I had only just met him. Arthur worked with him all the time. 
“Arthur,” I said carefully. “Don’t freak out, but did Dawna ask you about Checker?” Would it matter? Could she have seen everything anyway, whether or not she had asked? 
“No,” Arthur answered. “Well, not until after I mentioned him. She was real interested. He’s a heck of a guy, you know?” 
“Oh, no.” I pushed back the blankets and scrambled up. “Oh, God.” 
“Russell, stop! What are you doing? You can’t get up!” 
“The hell I can’t.” I tore the medical tape off the back of my hand and slid out the IV, ignoring the dark blood that welled up. It would clot. “We have to find him. Now.” 
Arthur shook his head. “You ain’t allowed to find Checker. It’s part of his security whatsis, you know—clients don’t get to know where the Hole’s at.” 
“Arthur, this is very important.” I grabbed him by the shoulders. “Where Checker lives—he calls it the Hole?” I took a deep breath. “Do you know where it is? I’m not asking you to tell me, but do. You. Know?” 
"Where do all these children come from?" 
"Ramala says they're orphans or abandoned or something. From overseas or wherever." She sighed. "They're so per­fect." 
"But how, exactly, do—?" 
"People bring them here." She seemed uninterested in the question, just plunging on as she wandered on down the line of bassinets. 
I'd finally come to my senses enough to take out the Betacam, though the light wasn't actually enough to really work with, certainly not broadcast quality. 
She stopped and picked up one of the infants out of its bassinet, then turned back to me, her eyes turning soft as she hugged it the way she might a small puppy. "Isn't this one cute? I'd so love to have him." 
Was she on some kind of drug that suppressed curiosity? I found myself wondering as I panned the camera around the room. There must have been at least twenty bassinets, all just alike, wicker with a white lace hood. A couple of the babies were sniffling, and the one Tara had picked up now began crying outright, much to her annoyance. The room itself smelled like baby powder. 
"Reply if you get this, if you're on the run and alone. Or reply if you're in custody, being run by our friends on Gitmo, looking for a way to make the pain stop. If they've got you, you'll do what they tell you. I know that. I'll take that risk. 
"For you, M1k3y." 
"Wooooah," Liam breathed. "Duuuuude." I wanted to smack him. I turned to say something awful and cutting to him, but he was staring at me with eyes as big as saucers, looking like he wanted to drop to his knees and worship me. 
"Can I just say," Nate said, "can I just say that it is the biggest honor of my entire life to help you? Can I just say that?" 
I was blushing now. There was nothing for it. These two were totally star-struck, even though I wasn't any kind of star, not in my own mind at least. 
"Can you guys --" I swallowed. "Can I have some privacy here?" 
They slunk out of the room like bad puppies and I felt like a tool. I typed fast. 
"I got away, Zeb. And I'm on the run. I need all the help I can get. I want to end this now." I remembered to take Masha's phone out of my pocket and tickle it to keep it from going to sleep. 
No! I banged my head against the door, hoping the pain would bring me back, but the room just swirled even more. 
The tunnel. Now it was all around me, shadowy and dim. I thought I glimpsed Sarah at the end of it, wearing a white shift, beckoning me, but when I reached out for her, to take us away, all I could touch was empty mist. 
I 'm on a bed, in a dreamscape room enveloped in pastel fog, watching a Melania butterfly the size of a man pump his massive orange and black wings above me. His voice is mellifluous, hypnotic, and I feel the soft wind of his wings against my face, cooling, scented, enveloping. It is the soft­ness of eternal peace. 
"Your body is a realm of fertility," he is saying, his tones echoing in the shadowy haze around me, sonorous and car­ing. "You are special." Then, iridescent blues and purples shimmering off his wings, his face evolves into the orange and black mask of a jaguar. "You are one of the special ones. Together we will create life." 
Did he say "special"? Marcelina said I was . . . like Sarah . . . 
"I'm telling you the monster doesn't have a liver . What that man has, he has machines and nutrients and systems ." 
"And if a machine breaks down?" 
"The man who invented that machine works for the monster. He lives on the monster's private estate, with his family. Their microbial nations are identical to the monster's. He is not only the emperor of their lives, he is the emperor of the lives of their intestinal flora. If the machine that man invented stopped working, he would be standing by the vat in less than two minutes, with his staff, all in disposable, sterile bunny suits, murmuring reassuring noises as he calmly, expertly fitted one of the ten replacements he has standing by, the ten replacements he checks, personally , every single day, to make sure that they are working." 
Leon opened his mouth, closed it. He couldn't help himself, he snorted a laugh. "Really?" 
Brautigan nodded. 
"And what if none of the machines worked?" 
"If that man couldn't do it, then his rival, who also lives on the monster's estate, who has developed the second-most-exciting liver replacement technology in the history of the world, who burns to try it on the man in the vat -- that man would be there in ten minutes, and the first man, and his family --" 
“It’s my job,” he said. 
“They work you like a government mule,” she said. “You know I’m right. For Christ’s sake, you’re a father now, you can’t go running off in the middle of the night every time someone’s porn supply goes down. Don’t answer that phone.” 
He knew she was right. He answered the phone. 
“Main routers not responding. BGP not responding.” The mechanical voice of the systems monitor didn’t care if he cursed at it, so he did, and it made him feel a little better. 
“Maybe I can fix it from here,” he said. He could login to the UPS for the cage and reboot the routers. The UPS was in a different netblock, with its own independent routers on their own uninterruptible power-supplies. 
Kelly was sitting up in bed now, an indistinct shape against the headboard. “In five years of marriage, you have never once been able to fix anything from here.” This time she was wrong—he fixed stuff from home all the time, but he did it discreetly and didn’t make a fuss, so she didn’t remember it. And she was right, too—he had logs that showed that after 1AM, nothing could ever be fixed without driving out to the cage. Law of Infinite Universal Perversity—AKA Felix’s Law. 
Ange thanked her politely and Mom bustled around the kitchen, getting us glasses of juice and a plate of biscuits and asking three times if we wanted any tea. I squirmed a little. 
"Thanks, Mom," I said. "We're going to go upstairs for a while." 
Mom's eyes narrowed for a second, then she smiled again. "Of course," she said. "Your father will be home in an hour, we'll eat then." 
"Yeah," she said. "I was going to clean out my bank account on the way home at an ATM. I've got maybe five hundred saved up." 
"What am I going to spend it on?" she said. "Ever since the Xnet, I haven't had to even pay any service charges." 
"I think I've got three hundred or so." 
"Well, there you go. Grab it on the way to Civic Center in the morning." 
I had a big book-bag I used when I was hauling lots of gear around town. It was less conspicuous than my camping pack. Ange went through my piles mercilessly and culled them down to her favorites. 
Once it was packed and under my bed, we both sat down. 
"We're going to have to get up really early tomorrow," she said. 
"Or Bobby called Marlowe instead of notifying security. Oh, crap."  They've got the blast doors wide open, and they're standing in the entryway, shadows backlit and stretched long into grotesque, alien forms with their rifles creating extra snouty, spiked limbs. Ray races toward them, 
hands up so they can see him as something other than a fast approaching threat. Even so, the slap of his feet on the deckplate drops Kilgore into a firing position, glaring down the curve of the corridor through his sights. 
When he reaches them, Rodriguez says, "You notified security, right?" 
"Becker should be on his way." 
"On his way here? With reinforcements?" 
Ray pushes past them into the armory. The rifles are racked inside the door to the right, for easy access. He drags the nearest one free, rams in a clip and advances a cartridge into the chamber. It's a reassuring sound. 
"Reinforcements are Becker's call." 
A quick search of a neighboring footlocker turns up a load harness with a shoulder holster. Ray stuffs his pistol in, straps on the harness and begins filling the extra slots with ammo clips for the subby. 
"It's OK buddy, you just rest," I said. 
"No, you idiot, what about them , the cops in the cars? There!" 
He was right. Every five seconds, a cop car, an ambulance or a firetruck zoomed past. They could get us some help. I was such an idiot. 
"Come on, then," I said, "let's get you where they can see you and flag one down." 
Vanessa didn't like it, but I figured a cop wasn't going to stop for a kid waving his hat in the street, not that day. They just might stop if they saw Darryl bleeding there, though. I argued briefly with her and Darryl settled it by lurching to his feet and dragging himself down toward Market Street. 
The first vehicle that screamed past -- an ambulance -- didn't even slow down. Neither did the cop car that went past, nor the firetruck, nor the next three cop-cars. Darryl wasn't in good shape -- he was white-faced and panting. Van's sweater was soaked in blood. 
I was sick of cars driving right past me. The next time a car appeared down Market Street, I stepped right out into the road, waving my arms over my head, shouting " STOP ." The car slewed to a stop and only then did I notice that it wasn't a cop car, ambulance or fire-engine. 
“You know it’s true. Halliday is the one they really need. Unless he’s the one in charge, they’d never trade him for her.” 
Checker leaned back and crossed his arms. “All right, it seems like you’ve got an idea. Let’s hear it.” 
“We don’t make them give up Halliday. We make them take me.” 
“ What?” 
“We convince them somehow that she needs help. That I wrote part of the proof. Whatever. You drop whatever electronic hints will make them think that.” I ignored the edge of recklessness limning my brain. This plan was perfect. “It’ll work. I can pass muster.” 
“Of course you can; that’s not the point!” 
“What is the point, then?” 
“That—that you’re trying to offer yourself up as bait to people who nearly killed you and Arthur just this morning, twice, and have already kidnapped another person and what would make you think they’d want to keep you alive once they’d finished with you anyway? This is a terrible idea!” 
“Come on, have you not met me?” I said. 
“What—I don’t—” 
“No one can keep me in a box. They catch me, they’ll take me to Halliday, I’ll get us both out. Easy as pie.” 
Checker answered on the third ring. “Cas?” he said. The pause before he spoke was long enough for me to tell he really didn’t want to talk to Arthur yet. 
“Yeah,” I said. “I figured out the numbers. It’s Pithica’s financial empire.” 
He let out a low whistle. “You’re kidding.” 
Finally someone who understood what this meant. “Nope.” 
“I feel like a dead man walking just knowing that. Uh, irony not intended.” 
“Irony?” 
“I can’t walk.” Oh, right. I’d forgotten he used a wheelchair. 
Frighteningly, he did have a point. Once Pithica found out what we’d discovered, we would rocket straight to the top of the hit list. “Well, we just have to use it before they get to us,” I said. 
“How? Steal all their money?” 
“They’d just come after us and steal it back,” I pointed out. And I was pretty sure they’d win. It wasn’t a good feeling, knowing someone else could beat me. 
“What’s the plan, then?” 
“Wait a sec, I’m putting you on speaker.” I hit a button and put the phone on the table so I could talk to Rio and Arthur and him all at once. “The advantage on our side is that they’re drawing from thousands and thousands of accounts,” I said, feeling my way through the logic as I spoke. “So if we cut them off everywhere at once, they won’t be able to recover fast. They’d have to rebuild their whole infrastructure.” 
While the program ran, I went looking for an attorney who specialized in terrorists instead of drunk drivers. An hour later, and started a thread. 
<Shad> I need a lawyer. 
The comments streamed in. 
<callmecheese> Ack! 
<Falstaff> Buh? 
<Gargle> Wassup? 
<ferret> Are you okay. Shad? 
<freddieb> Oh no! 
<Kadabra> That sucks . 
<DoDec> What kind of lawyer? 
I felt my shoulders relax. I’m used to handling stuff by myself. 
It’s how I roll, especially given the alternative like living in a fancy house in the suburbs and going to a “good school” where people smile at you when the teacher is looking and then say mean things behind your back and on Instagram and Yik Yak. But the Group was different. These were my people. It felt good to know they were always there, that they always knew what to say. I typed: <Shad> The ACLU type . 
And they goofed off. Of course. 
<Kadabra> Oh oh, Shad's getting waterboarded again . 
<Gargle> We TOLD you not to buy that dyna- mite . 
<DoDec> We'll send you a care package. 
“The Internet is a wonderful invention, isn’t it?” I said, deliberately misunderstanding her surprise. “Nice work on the new encryption algorithm using prime roots of unity to approximate randomness. That’s a clever trick.” 
Halliday’s voice tightened. “An elementary understanding of—” 
“For God’s sake, Sonya,” said Arthur from behind me, low and rough. “You told me you needed someone who understood your work. Let us help you.” 
And just like that, Professor Halliday crumpled. Not in a dramatic way—somehow I doubted she did anything dramatically—but her head bowed and her shoulders hunched and she took off her severe rimless specs to press shaking fingers to her face. 
Arthur swooped around the desk and put a supportive arm over her thin shoulders. “That’s okay. It’s okay. Just tell us what’s going on.” 
Her voice came croakily through her hands. “I think I understand now. What you said about getting in over your head, how easy it was—how you didn’t see what was happening until it was too late.” 
Rebecca's eyes blazed reproach, almost anger, as she said chokingly: "Oh, aunt Jane! Could you believe it of me? I am going in with a heart brimful of gratitude!" 
"She was a good woman, Rebecca; she had a quick temper and a sharp tongue, but she wanted to do right, and she did it as near as she could. She never said so, but I'm sure she was sorry for every hard word she spoke to you; she didn't take 'em back in life, but she acted so 't you'd know her feeling when she was gone." 
"I told her before I left that she'd been the making of me, just as mother says," sobbed Rebecca. 
"She wasn't that," said Jane. "God made you in the first place, and you've done considerable yourself to help Him along; but she gave you the wherewithal to work with, and that ain't to be despised; specially when anybody gives up her own luxuries and pleasures to do it. Now let me tell you something, Rebecca. Your aunt Mirandy 's willed all this to you,—the brick house and buildings and furniture, and the land all round the house, as far 's you can see." 
