“The worm? What?” Felix focused on the guy, who was a young admin with just a little type-two flab around the middle. 
“Not the worm,” the guy said. “I got an email that the whole city’s quarantined because of some virus. Bioweapon, they say.” He handed Felix his Blackberry. 
Felix was so engrossed in the report—purportedly forwarded from Health Canada—that he didn’t even notice that all the lights had gone out. Then he did, and he pressed the Blackberry back into its owner’s hand, and let out one small sob. 
The generators kicked in a minute later. Sysadmins stampeded for the stairs. Felix grabbed Van by the arm, pulled him back. 
“Maybe we should wait this out in the cage,” he said. 
“What about Kelly?” Van said. 
Felix felt like he was going to throw up. “We should get into the cage, now.” The cage had microparticulate air-filters. 
They ran upstairs to the big cage. Felix opened the door and then let it hiss shut behind him. 
“Felix, you need to get home—” 
“It’s a bioweapon,” Felix said. “Superbug. We’ll be OK in here, I think, so long as the filters hold out.” 
Impossible because she was completely right. He was lonely for her, for Emma. Something within her cried out to him, troubled him, lured him in ways he didn't have the faculties or the experience to recognize. 
Everything he knew about her, had sensed, had touched, was lightning he tried to catch in a bell jar. 
And he was ruining it. Every moment he spent with her like this was a step on the path to destruction because he couldn't tell her the truth. He wants her so badly he's risking everything. 
Ray surges up from the couch, sheds her like a comforting blanket on a winter night. "I've got to go." 
"What? Ray-but I thought-" 
He waves her off, stomps to the door. "I know, I thought so to. But I can't, Emma. I just can't. Not now anyway. It wouldn't be right." 
He keys the door, gets to listen to the kako-daimon start it's outraged blather. He turns back to Emma, still seated on the sofa. She grips the cushion fabric in between her fingers and she's poised on the edge as though she's gathering the strength or the resolve to spring after him. There are fat tears gathering in the corners of her eyes because she imagines that he's rejecting her. Or imagines that he's angry with himself for taking advantage of her distraught emotional state. He watches this idea dawn upon her, that he's excoriating himself because of Micah, because just a few hours after the boy was ravaged here he is, the jaunty stranger, trying to dig into the boy's surrogate mother's pants. 
"I suppose so." The class was staring at me. I wasn't the best student in school, but I did like a good in-class debate. They were waiting to hear what I'd say next. 
"So aren't we doing what the terrorists want from us? Don't they win if we act all afraid and put cameras in the classrooms and all of that?" 
There was some nervous tittering. One of the others put his hand up. It was Charles. Ms Galvez called on him. 
"Putting cameras in makes us safe, which makes us less afraid." 
"Safe from what?" I said, without waiting to be called on. 
"Terrorism," Charles said. The others were nodding their heads. 
"How do they do that? If a suicide bomber rushed in here and blew us all up --" 
"Ms Galvez, Marcus is violating school policy. We're not supposed to make jokes about terrorist attacks --" 
"Who's making jokes?" 
"Thank you, both of you," Ms Galvez said. She looked really unhappy. I felt kind of bad for hijacking her class. "I think that this is a really interesting discussion, but I'd like to hold it over for a future class. I think that these issues may be too emotional for us to have a discussion about them today. Now, let's get back to the suffragists, shall we?" 
That night, anyway. 
In the toe of the galosh, there was a pea-sized glowing light. She’d never considered selling it for bread, though it was very fine. Its light seemed too bright in the dark flat, so she took it outside into the hot night, and used it to light her way on a secret walk through the old streets of her dirty city. 
Nine months after her father died, winter had sent autumn as a threatening envoy. The bread ration was cut to 120 grams, and there were sometimes pebbles in the bread that everyone knew were there to increase the weight. 
She was proud that when the bread was bad, she and the other diggers cursed the enemy and not the city. Everyone knew that no one had it any better. They fought and suffered together. 
But she was so hungry all the time, and you couldn’t eat pride. One day she was in the queue for bread and reached out with her trembling hands to take her ration and then she turned with it and in a flash, a man old enough to be her father had snatched it out of her hands and run away with it! 
At the speed of light, the glint of sunlight came in through the window, hit the bathroom mirror, and reflected in a tight beam from the polished face of my wristwatch right into the cop’s eyes. 
He moved fast, blinking and ducking his head away, but I moved faster. I dodged to the side as I dove in, my right hand swinging out to take the gun off line. My fingers wrapped around his wrist and I yanked, the numbers whirling and settling to give me the perfect fulcrum as I leveraged off my grasp on his gun hand to leap upward and give him a spinning knee to the side of the head. 
The cop collapsed, out cold, his face smacking inelegantly into the grimy bathroom floor. 
I checked the gun. Fully loaded with a round in the chamber, as I’d expected. I gave it points for being a nice hefty .45 with an extended magazine, and points off for being a Glock. Typical cop. I hate Glocks. 
I searched him quickly and found three spare mags fully loaded with ammo and a little snub-nosed Smith & Wesson tucked in his boot. No wallet or phone—and, more importantly, no badge or ID of any kind. I was right; he was dirty. 
“Bully for you,” Arturo said. He held out his hand. The security guard withdrew his truncheon and passed it to Arturo—its lead-weighted heft felt right, something comfortably low-tech that couldn’t be shorted out by electromagnetic pulses. He checked his watch, saw that it was dead. 
“Find a working phone and call 911. Tell them that there’s a Second Division Detective in need of immediate assistance. Clear all these people away from here and set up a cordon until the police arrive. Capeesh?” He used the cop voice. 
“Yeah, I get it, Officer.” the security guard said. He made a shooing motion at the mall-rats. “Move it along, people, step away.” He stepped to the top of the escalator and cupped his hands to his mouth. “Oi, Andy, c’mere and keep an eye on this lot while I make a call, all right?” 
The dead robots made a tall pile in front of the entrance to a derelict storefront that had once housed a little-old-lady shoe-store. They were stacked tall enough that if Arturo stood on them, he could reach the acoustic tiles of the drop-ceiling. Job one was to secure the area, which meant killing the infowar device, wherever it was. Arturo’s first bet was on the storefront, where an attacker who knew how to pick a lock could work in peace, protected by the brown butcher’s paper over the windows. A lot less conspicuous than the ceiling, anyway. 
Ever hear that rhyme? It's not good advice, but at least it's easy to follow. I leapt off the bed and paced back and forth. My heart thudded and my blood sang in a cruel parody of the way I'd felt when we got home. This wasn't sexual excitement, it was raw terror. 
"What?" Ange said. "What?" 
I pointed at the screen on my side of the bed. She rolled over and grabbed my keyboard and scribed on the touchpad with her fingertip. She read in silence. 
I paced. 
"This has to be lies," she said. "The DHS is playing games with your head." 
I looked at her. She was biting her lip. She didn't look like she believed it. 
"You think?" 
"Sure. They can't beat you, so they're coming after you using Xnet." 
"Yeah." 
I sat back down on the bed. I was breathing fast again. 
"Chill out," she said. "It's just head-games. Here." 
She never took my keyboard from me before, but now there was a new intimacy between us. She hit reply and typed, 
> Nice try. 
She was writing as M1k3y now, too. We were together in a way that was different from before. 
Rebecca looked disappointed but not quite dis-heartened. "That's pretty good," she said encouragingly. "You're warm but not hot; there's a brook, but not a common brook. It has young trees and baby bushes on each side of it, and it's a shallow chattering little brook with a white sandy bottom and lots of little shiny pebbles. Whenever there's a bit of sunshine the brook catches it, and it's always full of sparkles the livelong day. Don't your stomach feel hollow? Mine doest I was so 'fraid I'd miss the stage I couldn't eat any breakfast." 
"You'd better have your lunch, then. I don't eat nothin' till I get to Milltown; then I get a piece o'...  could see Milltown. I suppose it's bigger and grander even than...  my pink sunshade there and my bead purse. You see how it opens with a snap? I've twenty cents in it, and it's got to last three months, for stamps and paper and ink. Mother says aunt Mirandy won't want to buy things like those when she's feeding and clothing me and paying for my school books." 
So, when she got the connection, she asked politely: “Could you possibly tell me where Mr. Charles Houseman has gone?” 
“Certainly!” answered an equally polite voice at the other end of the wire. “Just a moment, please! You mean Mr. Houseman, second officer on the Mazell?” 
“I don’t know,” said Lexy, surprised. “Has he blue eyes?” 
There was an instant’s silence. Then the voice spoke again, a little unsteadily. 
“I—I believe so.” 
“He’s laughing at me!” thought Lexy indignantly, and her voice became severely dignified. 
“Can you tell me where the—the Mazell has gone?” 
“Thank you!” said Lexy. “And that’s that!” she added, to herself. “So he’s a sailor! I rather like sailors. Well, anyhow, he’s gone.” She sighed. “Carry on!” she said. 
She went into a tea room on Forty-Second Street and ordered herself a very good lunch. 
“Much better than I can afford,” she thought. “Goodness knows what’s going to happen to me! Here I am, without visible means of support. I suppose I’m an idiot. Lots of people would say so. They’d say I ought to be looking for a new job this instant; but I don’t care! I’m not going back on Caroline. Mrs. Enderby won’t do anything, and Mr. Houseman’s gone away, and there’s nobody but me. Perhaps I can’t do very much, but, by jiminy, I’m going to try!” 
The door opened with startling suddenness. Lexy appeared, and took the roses out of his hand. 
“Thank you! Good night!” she said, and was gone again before he quite realized what was happening. 
Then he heard the key turn in the lock, and, bewildered and very uneasy, he went away. 
Lexy flung the roses down on the table, not even troubling to put them into water. 
“Anything to get rid of him!” she said to herself. “I want to be let alone!” 
She lay down on the bed again, pulling a blanket over herself. Downstairs she could hear Mrs. Royce moving about in the kitchen, and Captain Grey’s singularly agreeable voice talking to the landlady. It seemed to her that they were in a different world, and that she was shut outside, in a black and terrible solitude. 
“If I can only sleep!” she thought. “Perhaps, in the morning—” 
She was beginning to feel a little drowsy now. How heavenly it would be to sleep, even for a little while! To sleep and to forget! 
The wind was blowing through the dark little room, bringing to her the perfume of the roses—a wonderful fragrance. It was wonderful, but almost too strong. It was too strong. It troubled her. 
With all the crap with the Xnet and Ange and the DHS, I'd almost forgotten he existed. He'd become a ghost, like an old friend who'd moved away or gone on an exchange program. All that time, they'd been questioning him, demanding that he rat me out, explain the Xnet, the jammers. He'd been on Treasure Island, the abandoned military base that was halfway along the demolished span of the Bay Bridge. He'd been so close I could have swam to him. 
I put the lighter down and re-read the note. By the time it was done, I was weeping, sobbing. It all came back to me, the lady with the severe haircut and the questions she'd asked and the reek of piss and the stiffness of my pants as the urine dried them into coarse canvas. 
"Marcus?" 
My door was ajar and my mother was standing in it, watching me with a worried look. How long had she been there? 
I armed the tears away from my face and snorted up the snot. "Mom," I said. "Hi." 
She came into my room and hugged me. "What is it? Do you need to talk?" 
"Never mind!" said Emma Jane comfortingly. "Everybody says you're awful bright and smart, and mother thinks you'll be better looking all the time as you grow older. You wouldn't believe it, but I was a dreadful homely baby, and homely right along till just a year or two ago, when my red hair began to grow dark. What was the nice man's name?" 
"I never thought to ask!" ejaculated Rebecca. "Aunt Miranda would say that was just like me, and it is. But I called him Mr. Aladdin because he gave us a lamp. You know the story of Aladdin and the wonderful lamp?" 
"Oh, Rebecca! how could you call him a nickname the very first time you ever saw him?" 
"Aladdin isn't a nickname exactly; anyway, he laughed and seemed to like it." 
By dint of superhuman effort, and putting such a seal upon their lips as never mortals put before, the two girls succeeded in keeping their wonderful news to themselves; although it was obvious to all beholders that they were in an extraordinary and abnormal state of mind. 
One of my handguns clicked to empty, the slide locking back. I dashed from the doorway, neatly dodging the Taser leads one grunt desperately shot at me and spinning to pistol whip him in the head while I fired the last two rounds out of the gun in my other hand. Then I dove into a slide, the soles of my boots skidding on the wet floor, and came up with one of the dead soldiers’ Berettas. By the time it clicked open, I’d taken out the remaining seven attackers in the hallway. 
I snagged a few more weapons off our downed enemies and returned to the doorway, handing Arthur a share of the new munitions. My boots left wet, red footprints behind me. The crisp burnt scent of gunpowder clogged the air and stung my nostrils, the hazy smoke from the fray curling through corridor. 
“What’s the plan?” Arthur asked, holding a Beretta at high ready and not taking his eyes off the death-wrapped hall. 
“We fight,” I said. 
“Can’t fight forever.” 
“I can.” 
His eyes strayed to the bodies, skittering across the blood. “God help me, I maybe believe you,” he mumbled, so softly I wasn’t sure he knew he said it out loud. 
The Lancer came back in. 
No, no, no, I’m not ready. I had to wait— I tugged at my bonds weakly, involuntarily. The paralytic had worn off now, but it hardly mattered. 
“Is there anything our resident double-crossing snake would like to share for posterity?” The Lancer was standing above me, jeering, leaning on his cane with both hands. “Any words of wisdom on always making the quick buck?” 
A noise filtered through my consciousness, a very specific sort of shuffle-thump noise. A very specific sort of noise. 
Holy shit. 
“Six, twenty-eight, four ninety-six,” I said. It came out in a weird, sing-song mumble. I felt drunk. 
“What did you say?” demanded the Lancer. 
There was another shuffle-thump, and a quickly quieted clatter. “Thirty,” I murmured. “A hundred and forty. Twenty-four eighty...” 
“Six thousand two hundred,” said Professor Martinez, across from me. “And forty thousand six hundred forty.” 
“Yeah,” I said. “Yeah. They’re here.” 
“Who’s here?” The Lancer’s voice climbed, unnerved. “What the fuck are you on about?” 
Tony laughed and said, That's where you're wrong! File-O-Gator is just the long arm of one of the Ones In Charge. He probably slept with the wife of the One In Charge who runs BBD&O, and now they're fighting it out. 
I laughed at Tony and said, You keep talking about the Ones In Charge! Everything you say is stupid unless you believe in the Ones In Charge! What makes you think that there are any Ones In Charge? 
There has to be, Tony said. Who else is running the show? 
Rhindquist is! I said. 
Tony looked at me like I was stupid. I'm pretty sick of him looking at me like that. Tony said, If Rhindquist is running the show, then how come he has time to waste on you? 
I wanted to say something, but I didn't know what. Tony sure makes me angry! I got off the slidewalk and went home and wrote you this letter. 
Hi Mom! 
Gosh, poor Buddy! How can he be a spy? I played with him all my life! I never saw him being a spy! He'd have to be pretty sneaky to be a spy! I don't think he's a spy! I'm sure that the manager at his disciplinary hearing will figure out that he couldn't be a spy! 
But this is a straightforward objective. Lt. Holcomb has been using a complex series of high res satellite recon and inspired guesswork for the last two years to track a renegade Dispensationalist cleric named Ramah ibn Ona Hadad nee Mikhail Brezhnaya, sometime freakishly magnetic religious icon, but mostly an assclown terrorist organizer responsible for assorted embassy bombings, the biochem catastrophe in Calcutta and a dozen other moderately interesting attacks against Western tourists in his part of the world. What makes him interesting to METOC policy wonks is his pre-conversion rank in the Russoturk Crescent Army as head of intelligence operations in New Mes. It is a brain begging to be picked, doped, sliced into cross sections, 
scanned into a secure data environment, and interrogated in AI enhanced simulacrum form. 
Holcomb has tracked Brezhnaya's movements and determined that whatever else he might do to evade capture, the cleric cannot resist this place, this canyon and a tightly scheduled semi-annual pilgrimage with a hand picked coterie of fanatical supporters. It is a defining pattern in a life that is otherwise devoid of useful signals. 
"It's all I've got." 
"You don't think we should try to run for it?" 
"No," I said. "If we run, they'll chase us. Maybe if we walk, they'll figure we haven't done anything and let us alone. They have a lot of arrests to make. They'll be busy for a long time." 
The park was rolling with bodies, people and adults clawing at their faces and gasping. The cops dragged them by the armpits, then lashed their wrists with plastic cuffs and tossed them into the trucks like rag-dolls. 
"OK?" I said. 
"OK," she said. 
And that's just what we did. Walked, holding hands, quickly and business-like, like two people wanting to avoid whatever trouble someone else was making. The kind of walk you adopt when you want to pretend you can't see a panhandler, or don't want to get involved in a street-fight. 
It worked. 
We reached the corner and turned and kept going. Neither of us dared to speak for two blocks. Then I let out a gasp of air I hadn't know I'd been holding in. 
We came to 16th Street and turned down toward Mission Street. Normally that's a pretty scary neighborhood at 2AM on a Saturday night. That night it was a relief -- same old druggies and hookers and dealers and drunks. No cops with truncheons, no gas. 
“You take what you need and go, OK? No sense in there being any trouble.” Her chin was pointy and her eyes were sharp. She looked to be in her forties. She looked nothing like Kelly, which was good, because Felix felt like running and giving her a hug as it was. Another person alive! 
“Are you a doctor?” Felix said. She was wearing scrubs under the coat, he saw. 
“You going to go?” She brandished the axe. 
Felix held his hands up. “Seriously, are you a doctor? A pharmacist?” 
“I used to be a RN, ten years ago. I’m mostly a Web-designer.” 
“You’re shitting me,” Felix said. 
“Haven’t you ever met a girl who knew about computers?” 
“Actually, a friend of mine who runs Google’s data-center is a girl. A woman, I mean.” 
“You’re shitting me,” she said. “A woman ran Google’s data-center?” 
“Runs,” Felix said. “It’s still online.” 
“NFW,” she said. She let the axe lower. 
“Way. Have you got any cortisone cream? I can tell you the story. My name’s Felix and this is Van, who needs any anti-histamines you can spare.” 
The Story So Far was part game, part competition, part creative writing exercise, a massive shared universe drama with dozens of sub-plots, mysteries, betrayals, crosses, and double-crosses. Everyone kept saying it was only a matter of time until the big publishers started to cherry-pick the best writers from the message-boards, but in the meantime, there were these little hand-made editions, each one paying a small, honor-system royalty to the authors they anthologized. 
"Have you tried asking your teachers for help?" He knew as soon as he asked it that it was the wrong sort of question. She rolled her eyes with adolescent eloquence, then looked down again. "Only you might be able to get credit for it -- independent study type of thing?" 
She rolled her eyes again. 
"Right," he said. "Right. Well, sorry I couldn't be more help." The little bell over the door jingled merrily as she left. 
"Back again?" 
She had her school bag in her hands, zip opened, bag gaping. He was reminded of all those terrible little signs that said "No more than two school kids in the shop at any one time." Fancy that -- imagine if it said "No more than two women in the shop" or "No more than two Asians in the shop" -- kids were the last group you could treat like second class citizens without being called a bigot. 
“So we drive down to Iowa and pick up your friend,” Nikko was saying. “Then what?” 
“We take him here,” I said, and showed him the map. 
S o we were on the road, but not without having an argument first. 
I called Monica and gave her a line about how I wanted to take a break and had a chance to stay overnight with a friend from school whose family had a lake cottage in Sibley County. “She says there’s a wood stove so it will be plenty warm enough and we won’t party or anything. It’s just me and her and her dog. He’s a good watchdog, so it will be totally safe.” 
It took her a while to respond. I hoped she was thinking about how someone from the Joint Terrorism Task Force could be lis- tening in before she made a decision. Besides, I’d planted clues. 
We both thought there were way too many monuments and places named after Henry Hastings Sibley, so I chose that county deliberately. I might have been a little heavy-handed when I added the watchdog stuff, but if she picked up on my Sibley clue, she probably also realized I was doing something risky, and I needed a way to tell her I would be careful. 
"What are you going to do with the magnificent profits you get from this business?" 
"We are not selling for our own benefit," said Rebecca confidentially. "My friend who is holding the horse at the gate is the daughter of a very rich blacksmith, and doesn't need any money. I am poor, but I live with my aunts in a brick house, and of course they wouldn't like me to be a peddler. We are trying to get a premium for some friends of ours." 
Rebecca had never thought of alluding to the circumstances with her previous customers, but unexpectedly she found herself describing Mr. Simpson, Mrs. Simpson, and the Simpson family; their poverty, their joyless life, and their abject need of a banquet lamp to brighten their existence. 
"You needn't argue that point," laughed the man, as he stood up to get a glimpse of the "rich blacksmith's daughter" at the gate. "I can see that they ought to have it if they want it, and especially if you want them to have it. I've known what it was myself to do without a banquet lamp. Now give me the circular, and let's do some figuring. How much do the Simpsons lack at this moment?" 
I told them. 
They didn’t like it. 
My plan depended on us being able to find a working car. If we couldn’t do that, we were stuck. 
Fortunately, both the van and my clunky sedan turned over on the first try. They were both old cars, so maybe they didn’t have enough electronics to matter. I decided I didn’t care why they still worked, only that they did. 
Rio and Checker loaded into the van. “Get him out safe,” I said to Rio, leaning on the open passenger window. He nodded. “How long do you think you’ll need?” I asked Checker. 
He was gripping his arms across his chest very tightly. “I don’t know. Traffic might be backed up getting out, but once I can get my hands on a working laptop—two hours. I can finish in two.” 
“I can give you that,” I said. “Good luck. It’s all down to you now.” 
He shivered. “Cas.” 
“Yeah?” 
He couldn’t seem to form words. 
“Spit it out,” I said. “We’ve got to get going.” 
“Tell me you think you can make it,” he said in a low voice, not looking at me. “Tell me you and Arthur aren’t going to die for this.” 
"I know that with miracles must come sadness," she said, reaching to touch Tz'ac Tzotz's tiny brow. "We all under­stand that." 
"It's not a miracle. It's science, don't you realize? Ciencia . He's using you." 
"We know he does many things that are magic. He makes powerful medicines from the plants we bring him, and when women want to bear a child—" 
"No, Marcelina." I felt my heart go out to her, and to all the others. "It's black magic. It's all a lie." 
The first thing to do was go down to the laboratory and dump every last one of my petri dishes into the sink, ova and all. Destroy the nest, then call Steve and warn him. . . . 
I glanced at my watch. NO! The time was 4:58 A.M. He was coming at nine o'clock last night. . . . 
I was standing there in horror, unnatural colors flitting across my vision, when I heard . . . 
"It's almost morning." 
I jumped as Alex Goddard walked into the room, dressed in white, hair falling around his shoulders. He took Tz'ac Tzotz from his crib, checked the number on his amulet, and then absently put him back. Next he examined me, his eyes brimming with concern. 
He looked into her mask, shining his light at her face. Her eyes were half shut and unfocused. The regulator was still in her mouth, though her jaw muscles were slack. He held the regulator in place and kicked for the surface, squeezing her chest to make sure that she was blowing out bubbles as they rose, lest the air in her lungs expand and blow out her chest-cavity. 
Robbie was used to time dilation: when he had been on a silicon substrate, he could change his clockspeed to make the minutes fly past quickly or slow down like molasses. He’d never understood that humans could also change their perception of time, though not voluntarily, it seemed. The climb to the surface felt like it took hours, though it was hardly a minute. They breached and he filled up his vest with the rest of the air in his tank, then inflated Kate’s vest by mouth. He kicked out for the row-boat. There was a terrible sound now, the sound of the reef mingled with the sound of the UAVs that were screaming in tight circles overhead. 
He gave her the tin soldiers. 
“For you,” he said. “Daddy-daughter present.” She held them tightly, their tiny bayonets sticking out from between her fingers. 
“Thanks, Dad,” she said. She held them tightly and looked around, wide-eyed, at the schools of robots and the corkscrew towers. 
A flock of Bennyslennys appeared before them, joined by their Benny. 
“There are half a billion of them,” she said. “And 3,422 of them,” she said, pointing with a small bayonet at Natalie. 
“But there’s only one of you,” Arturo said. 
She craned her neck. 
“Not for long!” she said, and broke away, skipping forward and whirling around to take it all in. 
I thought I was done with sentience and robots, but then this story came to me, while 20 meters down the reef-wall in the Coral Sea, off the coast of northern Australia. I think a turtle was involved. 
The good ship “Spirit of Freedom” is the model for the “Spirit of Freedom,” the ship in this tale. As far as I know, neither it nor its ship’s boats are sentient. 
"It was a very small meeting, aunt Miranda," began Rebecca, "and the missionary and his wife are lovely people, and they are coming here to stay all night and to-morrow with you. I hope you won't mind." 
"Coming here!" exclaimed Miranda, letting her knitting fall in her lap, and taking her spectacles off, as she always did in moments of extreme excitement. "Did they invite themselves?" 
"No," Rebecca answered. "I had to invite them for you; but I thought you'd like to have such interesting company. 
"Stop your explainin', and tell me first when they'll be here. Right away?" 
"No, not for two hours—about half past five." 
"Then you can explain, if you can, who gave you any authority to invite a passel of strangers to stop here over night, when you know we ain't had any company for twenty years, and don't intend to have any for another twenty,—or at any rate while I'm the head of the house." 
"Don't blame her, Miranda, till you've heard her story," said Jane. "It was in my mind right along, if we went to the meeting, some such thing might happen, on account of Mr. Burch knowing father." 
It would be impossible for two children to see more, do more, walk more, talk more, eat more, or ask more questions than Rebecca and Emma Jane did on that eventful Wednesday. 
"She's the best company I ever see in all my life," said Mrs. Cobb to her husband that evening. "We ain't had a dull minute this day. She's well-mannered, too; she didn't ask for anything, and was thankful for whatever she got. Did you watch her face when we went into that tent where they was actin' out Uncle Tom's Cabin? And did you take notice of the way she told us about the book when we sat down to have our ice cream? I tell you Harriet Beecher Stowe herself couldn't 'a' done it better justice." 
"I took it all in," responded Mr. Cobb, who was pleased that "mother" agreed with him about Rebecca. "I ain't sure but she's goin' to turn out somethin' remarkable,—a singer, or a writer, or a lady doctor like that Miss Parks up to Cornish." 
"Lady doctors are always home'paths, ain't they?" asked Mrs. Cobb, who, it is needless to say, was distinctly of the old school in medicine. 
“‘Governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed. You have neither solicited nor received ours. We did not invite you. You do not know us, nor do you know our world. Cyberspace does not lie within your borders. Do not think that you can build it, as though it were a public construction project. You cannot. It is an act of nature and it grows itself through our collective actions.’ 
“That’s from the Declaration of Independence of Cyberspace. It was written 12 years ago. I thought it was one of the most beautiful things I’d ever read. I wanted my kid to grow up in a world where cyberspace was free—and where that freedom infected the real world, so meatspace got freer too. 
He swallowed hard and scrubbed at his eyes with the back of his hand. Van awkwardly patted him on the shoe. 
“My beautiful son and my beautiful wife died today. Millions more, too. The city is literally in flames. Whole cities have disappeared from the map.” 
He coughed up a sob and swallowed it again. 
> I didn't really have anything planned. 
> Oki -- then I'll take YOU. Saturday. Dolores Park. Illegal open air concert. Be there or be a dodecahedron. 
> Wait what? 
> Don't you even read Xnet? It's all over the place. You ever hear of the Speedwhores? 
I nearly choked. That was Trudy Doo's band -- as in Trudy Doo, the woman who had paid me and Jolu to update the indienet code. 
> Yeah I've heard of them. 
> They're putting on a huge show and they've got like fifty bands signed to play the bill, going to set up on the tennis courts and bring out their own amp trucks and rock out all night. 
I felt like I'd been living under a rock. How had I missed that? There was an anarchist...  passed on the way to school that had a poster of an old revolutionary named Emma Goldman with the caption "If I can't dance, I don't want to be a part of your revolution." I'd been spending all my energies on figuring out how to use the Xnet to organize dedicated fighters so they could jam the DHS, but this was so much cooler. A big concert -- I had no idea how to do one of those, but I was glad someone did. 
The R Peed unit was suddenly at his side, holding his wrist. “Please take care not to harm this citizen, Detective.” 
Arturo snarled. He wasn’t strong enough to break the robot’s grip, and he couldn’t order it to let him rattle the punk, but the second law had lots of indirect applications. “Go patrol the lakeshore between High Park and Kipling,” he said, naming the furthest corner he could think of off the top. 
The R Peed unit released him and clicked its heels. “It is my pleasure to do you a service,” and then it was gone, bounding away on powerful and tireless legs. 
“Where is my daughter?” he said, giving the kid a shake. 
“I dunno, school? You’re really hurting my arm, man. Jeez, this is what I get for being too friendly.” 
Arturo twisted. “Friendly? Do you know how old my daughter is?” 
The kid grimaced. “Ew, gross. I’m not a child molester, I’m a geek.” 
“A hacker, you mean,” Arturo said. “A Eurasian agent. And my daughter is not in school. She used ExcuseClub to get out of school this morning and then she went to Fairview Mall and then she—” disappeared . The word died on his lips. That happened and every copper knew it. Kids just vanished sometimes and never appeared again. It happened. Something groaned within him, like his ribcage straining to contain his heart and lungs. 
“Robbie!” he screamed over the noise of the reef and the noise of the UAVs. “Download us and email us, now!” 
He knew the row-boat had heard him. But nothing was happening. Robbie the Row-Boat knew that he was fixing for them all to be blown out of the water. There was no negotiating with the reef. It was the safest way to get Kate out of there, and hell, why not head for the noosphere, anyway? 
“You’ve got to save her, Robbie!” he screamed. Asimovism had its uses. Robbie the Row-Boat obeyed Robbie the Human. Kate gave a sharp jerk in his arms. A moment later, the feeling came to him. There was a sense of a progress-bar zipping along quickly as those state-changes he’d induced since coming into the meatsuit were downloaded by the row-boat, and then there was a moment of nothing at all. 
“Robbie?” 
Over here , Robbie said. Although he’d embodied in the Row-Boat for a few trillion cycles when he’d first arrived, he’d long since abandoned it. 
Here, he said. Everywhere . 
“You’re not embodying?” 
Coop them up, drill them with books and tests." 
"I'm a little surprised by the curriculum. It's quite advanced." 
"Some of our children are quite advanced. Others lag significantly behind the educational level they should have attained. Not all situations are ideal, as you can imagine, but all of the children in the Trust have great potential. We look for that potential and help them develop it. Perhaps it is not the ideal of mother, father, 
siblings, but it is better in many cases than the lives we cull them from. But we attempt to give them the  facsimile of family as we go along. " 
Ray feels a flush of embarrassment. "I didn't intend to sound critical." 
"But you wondered about their emotional well-being, these orphans on their way to a strange land amongst strange people." 
"Sure. I mean, kids are resilient, but losing your parents is a pretty big blow to try to bounce back from." 
Amah nods. "For some. Others have been without parents, comforts, love for several years. Those cases are more difficult, and it takes longer for the colony to embrace them-or for them to embrace the colony." 
“I interact with them online all the time.” 
“It’s not the same as face to face.” 
“You got that right.” I...  is a lot less annoying.” 
A ctually, I wasn’t too bummed about the group project. It was a dumb assignment for a dumb teacher who gave us so many instructions that every assignment was like assembling a piece of Ikea furniture that was all pre-cut and just had to be put together according to a million detailed steps. The grade was totally based on how well you could follow instructions, and the finished prod- ucts were pointless. With Ikea, at least you ended up with a book- case or a table. 
The good news was that Marcella was on our team, and she was good at instructions, though terrible at everything else. She would make sure we got it done on time and didn’t miss any of the pointless little steps or end up banging it together like furniture that works but has a few missing nuts and bolts, getting points off for it. We also had Dave, who doubled down on being not good at things. It was his career path. He was so good at letting everyone else do all the work, I was sure he’s be a CEO of something one day. 
He gave me one of those irritatingly patient looks, one that basically said “you’re being a jerk, and we both know it, but I’ll be nice to you anyway.” Then I gave him his phone and he made the call and she answered right away (which was also annoying, that she right there, waiting to hear his voice, even though it was good that she was). He made it sound casual but also slightly mysteri- ous. If she knew him at all, if she had any brains under that purple hair, she’d know something was up, but nobody else listening in would. 
He left after I made him check to make sure he still had the phone I’d given him so we could connect after he talked to Bree. I packed up my laptop, gathered up the books, put them on a book cart, and left to find a place that served...  and charming and being really super nice to me on top of being cute. It was enough to make you sick. 
We got under way quickly. Nikko Convo’d me within twenty minutes to say they were ready to roll. I told him I’d be at a spot on Minnehaha that I knew was free of surveillance cameras. I did the same thing as before with my bike, acting as if it had a problem (which, to be honest, was hardly unusual), and he pulled up and acted as if he just happened to notice me there and would give me a ride. I stowed the bike in the trunk of Bree’s car, and climbed into the back seat that was cluttered with textbooks, crumpled papers, and empty kombucha bottles. Girl drank a lot of kombucha. 
We'd told people to arrive by 9:30 sharp, and we gave it until 9:45 to see who all would show up. About three quarters were Jolu's friends. I'd invited all the people I really trusted. Either I was more discriminating than Jolu or less popular. Now that he'd told me he was quitting, it made me think that he was less discriminating. I was really pissed at him, but trying not to let it show by concentrating on socializing with other people. But he wasn't stupid. He knew what was going on. I could see that he was really bummed. Good. 
"OK," I said, climbing up on a ruin, "OK, hey, hello?" A few people nearby paid attention to me, but the ones in the back kept on chatting. I put my arms in the air like a referee, but it was too dark. Eventually I hit on the idea of turning my LED keychain on and pointing it at each of the talkers in turn, then at me. Gradually, the crowd fell quiet. 
I welcomed them and thanked them all for coming, then asked them to close in so I could explain why we were there. I could tell they were into the secrecy of it all, intrigued and a little warmed up by the beer. 
Lucy typed, 
› they’re wrecking the game economy and they’re providing a gold-for-cash supply that lets rich assholes buy their way in. 
› If they don’t play the game, they don’t eat. I think that means that they care about the game as much as you do. You’re being paid cash to kill them, yes? So you need to play for your money, too. I think that makes you and them the same, a little the same. 
Lucy typed. Anda edged her character away from Lucy’s. Raymond’s character was so far away now that his texting came out in tiny type, almost too small to read. Lucy drew her bow again and nocked an arrow. 
“Lucy, DON’T!” Anda cried. Her hands moved of their own volition and her character followed, clobbering Lucy barehanded so that her avatar reeled and dropped its bow. 
“You BITCH!” Lucy said. She drew her sword. 
“I’m sorry, Lucy,” Anda said, stepping back out of range. “But I don’t want you to hurt him. I want to hear him out.” 
Lucy’s avatar came on fast, and there was a click as the voicelink dropped. Anda typed onehanded while she drew her own sword. 
“Yes—it was an emerald. She’d left it to her brother, and he—Dr. Quelton—had taken it long ago, and sold it, to get money for his horrible drugs. She never knew that, and he didn’t tell her lawyer that she’d died. I don’t know how he managed, or what he did, but nobody knew. Then there came a letter from her brother, to say that he was coming; and the doctor said—I’ll never forget it: 
“‘Consequently, Muriel Quelton had to be here, and she was; and she’ll remain here until her purpose is served!’ 
“He told me what had happened. He said that as soon as he knew Captain Grey was coming, he began to look for some one to take his poor wife’s place. The captain hadn’t seen his sister since she was a baby, you know, and all he knew was that she was tall and dark. Dr. Quelton said he had arranged for some one to come from a hospital; and then he found me. He drove by just a little while after the accident, and he found the poor driver dead and me unconscious. He found a letter to mother in my purse, and he mailed it afterward. Then he heard another car coming along the road, and he started the engine and sent the taxi—with the dead driver in his seat—crashing down the hill, to run into the other car. He wanted the driver’s death to look like an accident. He didn’t care if the other man were killed. He’s—he’s not human, Lexy! He told me he had never in his life cared for any one except his wife. He told me what a beautiful, wonderful woman she was—and yet he had stolen her emerald when she was dying. Love! He couldn’t love any one!” 
"I'm sorry," I managed, hating myself again for saying it. 
Booger got in the front seat and Zit put the car in gear, cruising up 24th Street and over Potrero Hill. They had my address from my ID. 
Mom answered the door after they rang the bell, leaving the chain on. She peeked around it, saw me and said, "Marcus? Who are these men?" 
"Police," Booger said. He showed her his badge, letting her get a good look at it -- not whipping it away the way he had with me. "Can we come in?" 
Mom closed the door and took the chain off and let them in. They brought me in and Mom gave the three of us one of her looks. 
"What's this about?" 
Booger pointed at me. "We wanted to ask your son some routine questions about his movements, but he declined to answer them. We felt it might be best to bring him here." 
"Is he under arrest?" Mom's accent was coming on strong. Good old Mom. 
"Are you a United States citizen, ma'am?" Zit said. 
She gave him a look that could have stripped paint. "I shore am, hyuck," she said, in a broad southern accent. "Am I under arrest?" 
"She should be resting." It was a harsh voice, directly behind us. 
I recoiled, then whirled around. Three men were standing there, two of them young privates in uniforms of the Gua­temalan Army and carrying AK-47 assault rifles, the ones with the long, ominous curved clip Steve called cuerno de cabrio , the "horn of the goat." 
The third was in a black sweatshirt and black jeans, his long salt-and-pepper hair tied back in a ponytail. 
"They should have known better than to bring her out here," Alex Goddard said. "Not in her condition." 
The bastard. It was all coming together in my mind. He'd tried to kill her once before, and now he was going to finish the job. But he'd have to kill me first. 
"I'm here to take her home." I marched up to him. "You're not about to get away with kidnapping. I'm going to get the embassy to—" 
"She's here for important medical reasons." He met my eyes. "I hope you'll allow me the opportunity to help her." 
"What do you mean, 'help'?" 
"I'll explain if you'll give me a chance." He revolved and delivered some brusque orders in Kekchi Maya to the women, who nodded apologetically and began helping Sarah back onto the palanquin. After he admonished her in the same language, he then said...  Army privates, who gave him a firm salute, turned, and walked over to pick the palanquin up, to carry it for the women. The sense of authority he exuded reminded me of that first morning we met at Quetzal Manor. His eyes flashed from benign to demanding to benign in an instant. 
"Probably on the way. It'll take them longer since most of security is working crowd control. That makes sense, right?" 
"Sure. Exactly." It isn't a convincing attempt at reassurance. Rodriguez adds, "But how would we know about it so soon? Unless Bobby called Marlowe first, before notifying security." 
"Or Bobby called Marlowe instead of notifying security. Oh, crap."  They've got the blast doors wide open, and they're standing in the entryway, shadows backlit and stretched long into grotesque, alien forms with their rifles creating extra snouty, spiked limbs. Ray races toward them, 
hands up so they can see him as something other than a fast approaching threat. Even so, the slap of his feet on the deckplate drops Kilgore into a firing position, glaring down the curve of the corridor through his sights. 
When he reaches them, Rodriguez says, "You notified security, right?" 
"Becker should be on his way." 
"On his way here? With reinforcements?" 
Ray pushes past them into the armory. The rifles are racked inside the door to the right, for easy access. He drags the nearest one free, rams in a clip and advances a cartridge into the chamber. It's a reassuring sound. 
It's not. It's the smiles, infectious and big as watermelons, on every face. Everyone bopping a little to an unheard rhythm, shoulders rocking. Rolling walks. Jokes and laughs. The tone of every voice tight and excited, like a firework about to go off. And you can't help but be a part of it. Because you are. 
By the time the bands kicked off, I was utterly stoned on crowd-vibe. The opening act was some kind of Serbian turbo-folk, which I couldn't figure out how to dance to. I know how to dance to exactly two kinds of music: trance (shuffle around and let the music move you) and punk (bash around and mosh until you get hurt or exhausted or both). The next act was Oakland hip-hoppers, backed by a thrash metal band, which is better than it sounds. Then some bubble-gum pop. Then Speedwhores took the stage, and Trudy Doo stepped up to the mic. 
"My name is Trudy Doo and you're an idiot if you trust me. I'm thirty two and it's too late for me. I'm lost. I'm stuck in the old way of thinking. I still take my freedom for granted and let other people take it away from me. You're the first generation to grow up in Gulag America, and you know what your freedom is worth to the last goddamned cent!" 
Kingsley rounded back on Tresting. “And as for bringing in someone else—” 
“She’s another professional who had information—” 
Nice of him to put that spin on it. 
“California law expressly prohibits a private investigator from sharing any information related to a case without prior consent of the client!” Kingsley snapped. 
“California law also prohibits PIs from trespassing on private property, or drawing firearms on unarmed citizens, or pretending to be anything other than a PI to get information,” Tresting said, crossing his arms. “Don’t believe you’ve expressed any displeasure with me before.” 
I hadn’t known those laws. Wow, Arthur Tresting was one naughty PI. 
“They killed Reg,” Kingsley spat, her voice trembling with fury. “Try to remember that. It may not be personal for you, but finding out what happened is the single most important thing in the world to me. Have you ever loved anyone, Mr. Tresting? If so, try to put yourself in my shoes.” 
She spun on her heel and stalked out of the office. Tresting slumped into his chair, his head sagging. 
Eh, I’d remember it eventually, whatever it was. 
It took forty-eight hours for most vital services to get restored in Southern California, and almost two weeks for Los Angeles to approach something akin to normal. Twenty-nine people died and hundreds were injured during the rioting; the number of people who died from the EMP knocking out medical devices was several times that. Whatever numbers game Pithica thought they were playing, they had a lot to do to make up for this one. 
And they wouldn’t be able to. At least not for a good while. We’d made sure of that. 
I still wasn’t sure whether we should be proud of what we’d done or not. I tried not to think about it too hard, and to remind myself every so often of what Pithica had done to people like Reginald and Leena Kingsley. And to Courtney Polk, the client I hadn’t been able to rescue in the end. 
I also tried to remind myself of how much I liked winning. I’m not going to lie; that helped. 
We didn’t manage to contact Checker for several days, since Arthur refused to let me steal a working satellite phone from the aid workers rebuilding the infrastructure. It turned out that Dawna, never having met Checker, had completely misjudged what he would do and probably never would have found him anyway. After Rio had dropped him off at his car, Checker had driven non-stop; as soon as he had hit a town where the lights were still on, he had gone, not to break into an electronics store in the middle of the night, but instead to a well-groomed residential neighborhood...where he had knocked on a reasonably pleasant-looking door, asked if they knew what was happening in Southern California, and told them that he needed emergency access to a computer with a network connection. 
When we reached Dubuque, the sun was coming up. Bree fol- lowed my directions across the river and into Wisconsin. A few miles up the road, she pulled over to switch with Nikko, who had napped most of the way. Wheeze woke up and took more pills, 
then ate six granola bars. The pills made him pretty dopey, so he ate mechanically with his eyes half open. We drove through a town called Dickeyville, which made us all giggle stupidly, then up through snowy cornfields. We turned off on a smaller highway, 
and then a gravel road, and then onto an even smaller gravel road. 
“Are you sure this is the right way?” Nikko asked when I told him to turn onto something that was just a couple of wheel tracks through the snow. 
“Maybe? I don’t want to enable my GPS, so I can’t be sure.” 
It petered out in the middle of a field, so Nikko backed up through the corn stubble until we were back on the gravel road. 
Even with the pills, Wheeze winced with every bump. We tried two more dead ends before finally coming to a mailbox that said SHANDY on it. A sign nailed to the mailbox post said NO HUNTING in drippy red paint, like a poster for a horror movie. 
infield dirt was a panacea for dings on the wrist, bruises on cheeks and lips swollen from the impact of a baseball's bad bounce— all of which came frequently off the rain-cratered community ball diamond. Rub some dirt on it, Ray! Heart of their lineup's due, boy! Quit whining and get back to third base before your momma sees you crying] McCoy would've been a great baseball coach. If he hadn't been dead, of course. McCoy and Lance Corporal Lilly and Lieutenant (Hoo-ah!) Wendell Cain and- Screw it. He's not going to go there today. 
It's just after six Greenwich. Ray figures that's as good a time to get up as any. Lying here certainly isn't doing him any good. He locates some disinfectant cream and a tube of flesh toned dermaplast bandage paste in his night stand, then wanders into the head. He scrubs the wound on his forehead with cold water. 
But in those days, Ray and Isaac had stumbled into what was still a thriving frontier metropolis of neon casinos, front- window strip joints, sickly sweet opium dens and Third World slave brothels. The type of place where fourteen year old sino-afghani whores unzipped your trousers without asking, began sucking your tool right in the middle of the street, then demanded reasonable compensation by way of the universal language— that is, a rusty spike pressed against the tender lump of your scrotum. All the fun and feckless abandon a soldier could ask for, all priced under a dollar... which happened to be Djubruk's unofficial civic motto. 
There was still light shining through the narrow, obstructed corridor that led to the fresh air outside. I stared at it, through the gloom, and thought of Ange. 
My Ange. Her hair brushing her shoulders as she turned her head from side to side, laughing at something I'd done. Her face when I'd seen her last, falling down in the crowd at VampMob. All those people at VampMob, like the people in the park, down and writhing, the DHS moving in with truncheons. The ones who disappeared. 
Darryl. Stuck on Treasure Island, his side stitched up, taken out of his cell for endless rounds of questioning about the terrorists. 
Darryl's father, ruined and boozy, unshaven. Washed up and in his uniform, "for the photos." Weeping like a little boy. 
My own father, and the way that he had been changed by my disappearance to Treasure Island. He'd been just as broken as Darryl's father, but in his own way. And his face, when I told him where I'd been. 
That was when I knew that I couldn't run. 
That was when I knew that I had to stay and fight. 
sounding like a scolding schoolteacher. “In history, Zenobia was a badass woman warrior who led a rebellion against the Romans.” 
“And conquered Egypt, too.” I knew all that because Monica gave me an early history lesson, trying to make me proud of a name that everyone at school thought was one of...  “You can call me Zen for short.” That made Zeke sputter even more, his face getting red like he was under pressure and getting ready to explode. I glared at him. 
“What’s your problem?” 
“Nothing, little grasshopper.” Jason punched his shoulder. 
“Ow. It’s just you’re not, you know, all serenity and shit. No offense.” 
“Don’t pay attention to him,” Ian said. “He was raised by wolves.” 
“What is this place, anyway?” I asked. “Is it safe to meet here?” 
“I happen to know a guy who recently bought it,” said Jason (who I’d always known as Gargle). “He plans to convert it into a community makerspace. He didn’t mind us borrowing it for an evening of trouble-making.” He tugged at the nearest piece of tent fabric. “This stuff? It blocks radio waves and cell signals. Portable security for sensitive communications. We’re demoing it at the security conference.” 
as though to gain time. "It actually goes back about ten years ago, when I was prospecting for rainforest plants up here in the Peten and accidentally stumbled across this isolated village, which clearly had been here since classical times. I immediately noticed a huge mound of dirt everybody said was haunted by 'the Old Ones,' and I knew right away it had to be a buried pyramid. They're more common down here than you'd think. So I struck a bargain with the village elders and acquired the site. But after I unearthed it and began the restoration, I became inspired with a vision. One day I found myself offering to restore anything else they could find—which eventually included, by the way, a magnificent old steam bath—in exchange for which they would help me by undertaking a grand experiment, a return to their traditional way of life." 
"So you deliberately closed them off to the modern world?" It told me Alex Goddard could control a Mayan village just as he controlled everything else he touched. It also confirmed he had a weakness for the grandiose gesture. Would a time come when I could exploit that? 
The front lobby, which had been empty the first time I was there, was now a minimalist reception area, a long metal desk rolled in from somewhere. I had the odd feeling it was there just for me. The woman behind the desk introduced herself as Ramala, the same person I'd talked to twice on the phone. She looked to be about my age, with long dark hair and quick Asian eyes, punctuated by a professional smile. 
She knew my name, used it the minute she saw me, and then abruptly handed me a twenty-page "application" to complete. 
"It's not just a formality," she explained, businesslike and earnest. "Dr. Goddard feels it's essential that he come to know you as a person. He'll read this carefully, believe me." 
She ushered me to a chair that had a retractable table for writing, then gave me a ballpoint pen. 
The document turned out to be the most prying, nosy thing I'd ever filled out. The pages demanded what amounted to a mini life history. One of the things that struck me as most strange was the part asking for a ten-year employment and residential history. If you've moved around as much as I have, worked freelance a lot, you'll understand how difficult it can be to reconstruct all those dates and places, but I did my best. 
It takes only the briefest glimpse of the lounge for Ray to understand this. 
The immediately following thought is that he would like to trade his windowless, suffocating berth for a corner of the Officers' Lounge. Not even a corner in fact. He'd take a grubby spot under the table, or even a bit of bare shelf space in the kitchen. 
It's like this: if the Garden Level has been strategically designed to make the passengers forget they're not on luxury cruise liner navigating a splendid Caribbean sea, the lounge begs you to forget you're not the fancypants scion of an Old World, noble house stopping into a private club to meet with some effete Oxford or Cambridge chums and discuss how best to avoid doing any actually useful labors while still seeming to contribute to expansion of the Empire. There's rosewood paneling on the walls, polished to a burnished glow; scarlet carpeting deep enough to qualify as an official quagmire that requires a posting of various warning signs; subdued chandeliers that have nothing in common with lighting technology anytime after the discovery of the light bulb. Gentlemen in suits playing cards at circular tables around the room generate a smog of sweet cigar smoke and port wine laughter. Everything is wood, aged and dark and meticulously cared for. 
That was the last thing I saw as I took off running. 
I made it as far as the other end of the alley before she caught up with me, tackling me from behind and sending me sprawling. I couldn't move very fast, not with my hurt foot and the weight of my pack. I went down in a hard face-plant and skidded, grinding my cheek into the grimy asphalt. 
"Jesus," she said. "You're a goddamned idiot. You didn't believe that, did you?" 
My heart thudded in my chest. She was on top of me and slowly she let me up. 
"Do I need to cuff you, Marcus?" 
I got to my feet. I hurt all over. I wanted to die. 
"Come on," she said. "It's not far now." 
'It' turned out to be a moving van on a Nob Hill side-street, a sixteen-wheeler the size of one of the ubiquitous DHS trucks that still turned up on San Francisco's street corners, bristling with antennas. 
This one, though, said "Three Guys and a Truck Moving" on the side, and the three guys were very much in evidence, trekking in and out of a tall apartment building with a green awning. They were carrying crated furniture, neatly labeled boxes, loading them one at a time onto the truck and carefully packing them there. 
“Captain Grey!” she cried abruptly. “What you’ve told me—it is queer; and it’s even queerer when I think what has brought me here to this little place. Both of us here, in Wyngate! I think I’ll tell you.” 
And she did. 
He listened in absolute silence to the tale of Caroline Enderby’s disappearance. Even after Lexy had finished, it was some time before he spoke. 
“I’ll try to help you,” he said simply. 
“Oh, thank you!” cried Lexy, with a rush of gratitude. She wanted some one to help her, and she could imagine no one better for the purpose than this young man. He would help her—she was sure of it. Even the fact of having told him most wonderfully lightened her burden. She gave an irrepressible little giggle. 
“We have almost all the ingredients for a first-class mystery story,” she said; “except the jewel—the famous ruby, or the great diamond.” 
“It’s an emerald, in this case,” said Captain Grey. 
Lexy straightened up in her chair, and stared at him. 
“You don’t really mean that?” she demanded. “There isn’t really an emerald?” He smiled. 
"You'll have to wear a mask pretty soon, if you're going to have any comfort, Huldah," said Rebecca. "Did he offer to lend you his class pin, or has it been so long since he graduated that he's left off wearing it? And tell us now whether the principal asked for a lock of your hair to put in his watch?" 
This was all said merrily and laughingly, but there were times when Huldah could scarcely make up her mind whether Rebecca was trying to be witty, or whether she was jealous; but she generally decided it was merely the latter feeling, rather natural in a girl who had little attention. 
"He wore no jewelry but a cameo scarf pin and a perfectly gorgeous ring,—a queer kind of one that wound round and round his finger. Oh dear, I must run! Where has the hour gone? There's the study bell!" 
Rebecca had pricked up her ears at Huldah's speech. She remembered a certain strange ring, and it belonged to the only person in the world (save Miss Maxwell) who appealed to her imagination,—Mr. Aladdin. Her feeling for him, and that of Emma Jane, was a mixture of romantic and reverent admiration for the man himself and the liveliest gratitude for his beautiful gifts. Since they first met him not a Christmas had gone by without some remembrance for them both; remembrances chosen with the rarest taste and forethought. 
Wareham was a pretty village with a broad main street shaded by great maples and elms. It had an apothecary, a blacksmith, a plumber, several shops of one sort and another, two churches, and many boarding-houses; but all its interests gathered about its seminary and its academy. These seats of learning were neither better nor worse than others of their kind, but differed much in efficiency, according as the principal who chanced to be at the head was a man of power and inspiration or the reverse. There were boys and girls gathered from all parts of the county and state, and they were of every kind and degree as to birth, position in the world, wealth or poverty. There was an opportunity for a deal of foolish and imprudent behavior, but on the whole surprisingly little advantage was taken of it. Among the third and fourth year students there was a certain amount of going to and from the trains in couples; some carrying of heavy books up the hill by the sterner sex for their feminine schoolmates, and occasional bursts of silliness on the part of heedless and precocious girls, among whom was Huldah Meserve. She was friendly enough with Emma Jane and Rebecca, but grew less and less intimate as time went on. She was extremely pretty, with a profusion of auburn hair, and a few very tiny freckles, to which she constantly alluded, as no one could possibly detect them without noting her porcelain skin and her curling lashes. She had merry eyes, a somewhat too plump figure for her years, and was popularly supposed to have a fascinating way with her. 
“I can try.” He explained, “My company has a lot of law enforcement contracts. I know some people who know some peo- ple who might be able to let me know if he’s been picked up. No guarantees, but . . . can you give me a full name?” 
“Lawrence Delaney.” He made me spell it. “White, five ten or so, brown eyes, brown hair, if that helps. I don’t know his exact birthdate, but he’s seventeen.” 
“That makes it trickier. What’s his family situation?” 
“Lousy. He hasn’t been in touch with his parents for a long time. Why is it trickier?” 
“Easier to keep juvenile proceedings under wraps.” 
“Not this time. If they pick him up, it’ll be all over the news media,” Tyler said. “They’ll want to play it up, even if they don’t give out his name. That’s what these stings are for, to convince people that all that money we’re spending on the war on terror is worth it, that mass surveillance is effective, even if it fails to prevent lone wolf attacks or loses track of real terrorists in the haystack of data. What we need is a counter-narrative. It would be great to hear about his life on the run. If we could set up a site and get his story online, obviously without any details that would give away his location — ” 
Halliday lowered herself to the ground and sat back against the tree. The dirt and grass were still wet from the recent rain; it soaked through her slacks, but she didn’t seem to notice. Arthur crouched down next to her. “Sonya. You okay? Take a minute.” 
“And then talk,” I said. “You hired us to get the proof back, and now we know who stole it. Where would she go?” 
“But she burned it.” Halliday didn’t sound like she was hearing me. “You said she burned it.” 
“Our version, yeah. Because she has her own version already,” I pointed out. “She clearly doesn’t want anyone else with their hands on it. Now where would she go?” 
“I don’t know.” 
“Does she have any family? Other close friends?” I pressed her. 
“All the family she has left are still back on the reservation. In New Mexico.” 
“Huh,” said Arthur. “Indian reservation, is that outside NSA jurisdiction? Might be a good place for her to run.” 
“I’m pretty sure the NSA’s jurisdiction is wherever the NSA says their jurisdiction is,” I said. “They’re assholes that way. Same with the DHS and whatever secret black ops branch they have on this.” 
Puzzling over that, I began to wonder if maybe I was on the verge of uncovering a blockbuster documentary. Could we be talking something approaching science fiction here? Making documentaries, you're always on the lookout for the unexpected, the fresh. So how about an organization that could obtain beautiful Caucasian babies seemingly at will, including peas-in-a-pod born a few months apart? I was al­ready framing a pitch to David in my mind. 
They hadn't. First off, to get a child in three or four months, you'd almost certainly have to go with foreign adoption. China was everybody's flavor of the month, because they favored older parents and also because the one-child-per-family policy there had ended up producing a wide-scale abandonment of girls (who were all those precious boys going to marry? I often found myself wondering). However, the shifting poli­tics there made the process very unreliable. A few months? Don't even think about it. 
Pressing on, I satisfied myself that the country-specific organizations that found babies in the emerging parts of the world all still worked the same. Cradle of Hope specialized in orphaned Russian kids. Children and Families, Inc., provided adoptions for Equadorian children. International Adoption Assistance, Inc., handled Brazilian orphans. But they all were still fussy, and they could take ages. How about a brand-new healthy baby in just a few months? I'd ask. Some kind of new fast track? The question was always taken as a joke. . . . 
We no longer had our weapons pointed at each other, and re-initiating that situation seemed like a bad idea. Still, I kept the SIG out and pointed in a direction that wasn’t quite down as I turned to face the man who had both threatened my life and, I reluctantly admitted, probably saved it in the same day. “Who are you?” 
“Name’s Arthur Tresting.” 
“And you’re a cop.” 
“Not anymore,” he said, and something I couldn’t read flickered through his eyes. “I’m a PI. Lady, I think we might be on the same side here.” 
I resisted the urge to haul off and sock him one for calling me “lady.” “You didn’t think so this morning.” 
He glanced at the carnage surrounding us. “That was before Pithica tried to kill you.” 
Pithica again. I thought of Anton. Two people I liked were dead, and this Arthur Tresting knew something about why. 
And he was going to tell me. 
“What’s the Polk girl to you?” said Tresting. 
I hesitated. As a general rule, I didn’t give out information—any information, to anyone, and particularly not to a person I had every reason to mistrust. Still, I wanted to keep him talking, and the value of a few low-intelligence tidbits... 
I returned from a full night of making preparations to find two messages waiting for me. 
En route, was all Martinez’s said. The Lancer’s was a lot more suspicious, quizzing me about my plans and making it clear he wanted to be with me at the pickup from the beginning. 
Do not double-cross me. I know who your associates are. With the click of a button, I could ruin you. 
Damn the fact that I’d had to use my real name. Real name? You know it’s not your real— I slammed away that line of thought. The Lancer was implicitly threatening Tegan, and probably also Arthur; it wouldn’t take much asking around to find out we worked together on occasion. Fucker. 
I’d just have to make sure he never got a chance to take revenge on me. 
I tried to reassure him—meaning I made it clear he had no other choice but to trust me, so fuck what he wanted—and we went back and forth a few more times. The Lancer’s emails got longer and longer each time, vituperative rants shot through with narcissism. Christ, this guy was an asshole. I started skimming instead of reading. 
I knew what was coming. I could take it, I hoped. As long as it bought us time. 
Arthur will be coming. He will. 
“You give her a heart attack, you’ll never get your proof.” My tongue was still thick and languid in my mouth, but the words had enough shape to make sense. 
“Can I tell you a secret?” He leaned close, his breath hot on my ear. “I doubt you’ll be a very good incentive. But I don’t really care.” He pushed off and walked away. 
Yeah. I’d pissed him off. Big time. 
And it wasn’t going to work out so well for me. 
“Is she all right?” came Martinez’s grandmotherly voice. 
“How nice that you care,” said the Lancer. He’d retreated to a spot between us, leaning on his cane, the meditation balls going in his other hand. “Dr. Martinez, you’ve told me you won’t part with certain information on a proof that—” he brayed his hyena laugh—“that I know you have. But I think we can change your mind.” He gestured at me. “We’re going to start by torturing your friend here, who so conveniently made herself available. If that doesn’t work, we’ll go out and find another one of your friends, or we’ll find your family, any family you have—children, grandchildren, newborn babies...do you want that?” 
She opened the small fridge next to her office and brought out two corn-starch-foam buckets of beer and punctured each one at the top with a pen from her desk. She handed me one beer and raised the other in a toast. I don't normally drink before 10AM, but this was a special occasion. I clunked my cup against hers and chugged. The suds were good -- they came from one of the Institute's biotech labs -- and they were so cold that I felt ice-crystals dissolving on my tongue. Between the crispy beers and the blast of Arctic air coming from the vents in the ceiling, my core temp plunged and I became a huge goosepimple beneath my film of sticky sweat. 
I shivered once. Then she fixed me with an icy look that made me shiver again. 
"Odell," she said. "I think you probably imagine that you understand the gravity of the situation. You do not. BIGMAC's antics this morning have put the entire Institute in jeopardy. Our principal mission is to make Sun-Oracle seem forward-looking and exciting. That is not the general impression the public has at this moment." 
Uplifted coral reef . 
“That.” 
So what’s your point? 
“Asimovism is for robots, Robbie.” 
Sorry, I just don’t see the difference anymore. 
On a chunk of supercooled rock beyond Pluto, he got an IM from a familiar address. 
“Get off my rock,” it said. 
“I know you,” Robbie said. “I totally know you. Where do I know you from?” 
“I’m sure I don’t know.” 
And then he had it. 
“You’re the one. With the reef. You’re the one who—” The voice was the same, cold and distant. 
“It wasn’t me,” the voice said. It was anything but cold now. Panicked was more like it. 
Robbie had the reef on speed-dial. There were bits of it everywhere in the Noosphere. It liked to colonize. 
“I found him.” It was all Robbie needed to say. He skipped to Saturn’s rings, but the upload took long enough that he got to watch the coral arrive and grimly begin an argument with its creator—an argument that involved blasting the substrate one chunk at a time. 
The last instance of Robbie the Row-boat ran very, very slow and cool on a piece of unregarded computronium in Low Earth Orbit. He didn’t like to spend a lot of time or cycles talking with anyone else. He hadn’t made a backup in half a millennium. 
"You don't see this," she said, as she cranked the AC wide open and then fiddled with the carbon-footprint reporting system, using her override so that the journos outside wouldn't be able to see just how much energy the Institute's esteemed director was burning. 
"I don't see it," I agreed, and made a mental note to show her a more subtle way of doing that, a way that wouldn't leave an audit trail. 
She opened the small fridge next to her office and brought out two corn-starch-foam buckets of beer and punctured each one at the top with a pen from her desk. She handed me one beer and raised the other in a toast. I don't normally drink before 10AM, but this was a special occasion. I clunked my cup against hers and chugged. The suds were good -- they came from one of the Institute's biotech labs -- and they were so cold that I felt ice-crystals dissolving on my tongue. Between the crispy beers and the blast of Arctic air coming from the vents in the ceiling, my core temp plunged and I became a huge goosepimple beneath my film of sticky sweat. 
"I've got to get her and—" 
"Not now," Marcelina went on, helping me up. "Come. I want to show you the true miracle of Baalum . Now is the time you should know." 
The upstairs hallway was dimly illuminated by rows of lights along the floor as she led me forward. There also was total silence, except for the occasional whimper of a baby in one of the rooms. Where was she taking me? 
When she stopped in front of the third door from the end of the hall, I tried to get my mental bearings. I was still hallucinating; in control of only half my mind to the point where I wasn't sure I could find my hand in front of my face. But then she tapped on the door and when she heard a voice inside, something in the Kekchi dialect, she gently pushed it open. 
When we moved inside, the room was dark and there was no sound, except a gasp from the bed when the woman re­alized I was a gringo. The dim slant of illumination from the doorway revealed a small night lamp just above the head of her bed, and Marcelina reached for it. 
It's dark, hideously so. A confusion of shadows relieved by irregular pools of light from overhead fluorescent bulbs that seem to flicker like strobes. In the flickering, he can see puddles of glass as though the other lights, 
the ones not working, have exploded. Maybe an electrical surge. Except that wouldn't explain the desk from Bobby Diggs' security checkpoint, turned on its side and the chair rocked back against the wall, tilted at a precarious angle. There's no one around, just the oppressive not-sound of an underused deck, the hum of thrust through the hull and the faint murmur of the stuttering lights. And this would be wrong enough, more than enough, but from the trapezoidal glare cast by the lift's recessed bulbs, he sees the rest. Not much, just an elongated swath of liquid, a swabbed deck that hasn't yet dried. Only the streak is black in the dim, but not black. A color like black, but rich, coppery in its scent, glinting faintly. 
Blood. 
Ray is suddenly not very happy to find himself alone. 
“I can hit the road within an hour,” said Checker. 
“Okay. We’ll get the equipment in the meantime,” I said. “I’ll text you where to meet us.” 
“Just make sure it’s not a walk-up,” said Checker. “See you soon.” 
“Talk later,” offered Arthur. 
There was a brief pause and then a click as Checker hung up. 
I bared my teeth at Arthur and Rio in something that might have been a smile. “Okay. Who feels like electronics shopping?” 
Rio, with a disapproving turn to his mouth that said he thought a hundred and twenty miles was not nearly far enough to run, volunteered a safe house out near Twentynine Palms. He gave me the address after Arthur was safely out of the apartment. “Take the path from the road to the back door,” he told me. “Do not go in the front.” 
“Or what?” I asked curiously. 
“I have some minimal security measures in place.” 
“Goody,” I said. “Just make sure you don’t forget to tell me about any of them.” 
Arthur had taken off first, following my hastily-scrawled directions to retrieve copious amounts of cash from various places in Los Angeles to buy computer equipment with. 
Trover was at her side in a flash, calling her name anxiously. She was crying uncontrollably, but she was smiling too. Those words, pulled off of her ears ten years ago, when they’d gone to infowar command. Oh, God, those old friends, those words. The wizard and Ana. It had been so long. Where had the time gone? 
The next day, she met an old face. 
“You!” he said. He had a thick accent—the kind of accent that said he’d learned her language the hard way; that he hadn’t just installed it. 
She tried to picture him without it. He was grinning like a fool and laughing. 
“I can’t believe it’s you!” 
She shook her head slowly. Where the hell did she know this guy from? She was supposed to be going to the cine with friends that night—the new show screened between the trees in the western woods and you walked around through it and drank fizzy elderflower and talked with your friends as the story unfolded around you. It was a warm night and perfect for such things. 
“You don’t remember me?” 
Her tooth tingled. The one that had been knocked out in the trench and re-sprouted after the siege. Then she recognized him. 
"Do you?" 
Ray hesitates over his phrasing. "I've been apprised of the current situation." 
"Do you think so?" 
He can't tell what she means by this question. "Yes." 
Amah frowns. "You have no idea of the complexities of the current situation. The affairs of the Whiston family are beyond your ken. That you would even suppose to know is foolish and preposterous. Are you a fool, Mr. Marlowe?" 
Emma draws a sharp breath. "Amah, you promised." 
But the accusation still hangs in the air between them. Ray peers down at the old woman, his jaw set. "You don't know anything about me. " 
"Indeed. At least, no more than you know about the Whistons. You should not find yourself confusing what you believe with what is true— what you perceive with what is actual. The ability to separate truth from fiction is the foundation of courtesy." 
"Courtesy?" He speaks the word like he doesn't know what it means. 
"Amah, please!" 
The old woman levels a glare at Ray, but something about her seems to soften, relent. "I did promise. Not to be hard on you, not to remind you that the ways of the family are old and strange to some. It's not my place to tell a girl of Emma's age how to conduct her affairs, and you are obviously a man of the world who knows how to comport himself properly, eh? You don't need my approval of your business, not when you're perfectly capable of learning the hard truths for yourself. But I'm old, and I measure by standards that are no longer in fashion." She fixes Ray with a final, penetrating look from her dark eyes, her wells of knowledge. "Times change, Mr. Marlowe. Standards change. But the Whistons do not. We are as we have always been, and what is demanded of those who would flutter near to our flame is respect. Perhaps in time you will come to see that this is true— if you have the fortitude to endure." 
“Thanks, Dad,” she said. She held them tightly and looked around, wide-eyed, at the schools of robots and the corkscrew towers. 
A flock of Bennyslennys appeared before them, joined by their Benny. 
“There are half a billion of them,” she said. “And 3,422 of them,” she said, pointing with a small bayonet at Natalie. 
“But there’s only one of you,” Arturo said. 
She craned her neck. 
“Not for long!” she said, and broke away, skipping forward and whirling around to take it all in. 
I thought I was done with sentience and robots, but then this story came to me, while 20 meters down the reef-wall in the Coral Sea, off the coast of northern Australia. I think a turtle was involved. 
The good ship “Spirit of Freedom” is the model for the “Spirit of Freedom,” the ship in this tale. As far as I know, neither it nor its ship’s boats are sentient. 
If I return to this theme, it will be with a story about uplifted cheese sandwiches, called “I, Rarebit.” 
Robbie the Row-Boat’s great crisis of faith came when the coral reef woke up. 
Greg watched in numb bemusement as the man took off his jacket and hung it over a kitchen chair, then undid his cuffs and rolled them up, slipping a cheap digital watch into his pocket. Then he poured the beans back out of the grinder and into Greg's colander and did things at the sink. 
He was a little pudgy, and very pale. He needed a haircut -- had unruly curls at his neck. It made Greg relax, somehow. This guy had the social gracelessness of a nerd, felt like a real Googler, obsessed with the minutiae. He knew his...  
"We're drafting a team for Building 49 --" 
"There is no building 49," Greg said, automatically. 
"Yeah," the guy said, with a private little smile. "There's no Building 49. And we're putting together a team, with its own buginizer, to own googlecleaner. Maya's code wasn't very efficient. Every time someone runs it, it clobbers the whole farm. And it's got plenty of bugs. We've asked around and there's consensus on this. You'd be the right guy, and it wouldn't matter what you knew if you were back inside --" 
That was when life began to feel like a cruel bait-and-switch. When you aren't ready, you can produce a baby in a momentary absence-of-mind, whereas once you're finally an adult, accomplished, lots-to-offer woman, ready to be the mother you wish you'd had, your body has closed down your baby-making equipment like an unused Rust Belt factory. Fertility has calculatingly abandoned you for the Sun Belt of youth. 
"Well," Dr. Hannah Klein, my long-time ob/gyn, declared, "our tests all indicate you're both fertile, so just keep trying, under optimum conditions." 
Optimum conditions. There followed almost a year of "optimum conditions." Do it upside down; wait and have a cold shower while I take my temperature; no, not that way, not tonight. My mucus is thicker: Quick! Eventually we both began feeling like laboratory rats. Our once-incredible love life drifted into something only a boot-camp sergeant with Nazi leanings could be turned on by. 
I think that's what finally caused Steve to go over the edge. Three months ago—a Friday morning I shall never forget—he stepped out of my shower, swathed himself in a white towel, and announced he was going to Central America to do a book. He needed time to think. The move, he ex­plained, wasn't about us. He really wanted to spend a year down there with his Nikon, capturing the region's tentative processes of democratic transition. Besides, he was begin­ning to think we'd both gone a little mental about the baby. 
"And that's meant as an explanation for why you've spent so much time recently in the presence of Miss  Whiston rather than slaving away over the circuit boards. You were just gathering evidence." 
Ray shrugs. "As far as the official record is concerned." 
"Go on." 
"Once I'd isolated Freddy's sig, I was able to code a fairly comprehensive and flexible search of the surveillance net into the regular drone routine. With that in mind, I've also redirected the net to track his movements for the last four days." Ray waves at the screen and its cascade of jerky frame-by-frame animation. "What I've got is fairly conclusive footage of his movements before the estimated time of death, 
and footage reflecting his activities a few hours after. And a big gaping hole in the middle." 
"Aw, hell," Becker rumbles. 
"What I've also got is days and days of general tracking footage. This is where he was before and after— where, in fact, you're likely to find him at almost any time of the day, every day, except for the nightly batch transmission, when he lines up in the queue like all the other sturdy and respectable businessmen. The franchise is a...  High class, high price, exclusive tastes. The lap dances in the back room are cheaper than the drinks. It's also right off the main lift, giving its customers easy access to just about anywhere on the ship they might want to go at a moment's notice." 
Halliday wasn’t quick on the uptake—or maybe she knew, deep down, but didn’t want to believe. “Who?” she said. “Who did he give it to?” 
Arthur rolled his lips together, hesitating. “Your friend. Rita Martinez. She’s in the wind now.” 
One of Halliday’s knees buckled. She reached out and caught herself against a tree. 
“We think she’s the one stole your work in the first place,” said Arthur, very gently. 
“No,” said Halliday. Not as if she was in denial, simply as if she was stating a fact. “It’s not true.” 
“Maybe Zhang’s lying,” Arthur allowed. 
“Oh, come on, why would he?” I said. “Plus it makes sense from the beginning; Martinez knew she was working on it and—” 
Arthur glared daggers at me, and I shut up. Ah. He was trying to make her feel better. 
Halliday lowered herself to the ground and sat back against the tree. The dirt and grass were still wet from the recent rain; it soaked through her slacks, but she didn’t seem to notice. Arthur crouched down next to her. “Sonya. You okay? Take a minute.” 
He tracked them on sonar as they descended slowly. The woman—he called her Janet—needed to equalize more often than the man, pinching her nose and blowing. Robbie liked to watch the low-rez feed off of their cameras as they hit the reef. It was coming up sunset, and the sky was...  with its light. 
“We warned you,” the reef said. Something in its tone—just modulated pressure waves through the water, a simple enough trick, especially with the kind of hardware that had been raining down on the ocean that spring. But the tone held an unmistakable air of menace. 
Something deep underwater went whoomph and Robbie grew alarmed. “Asimov!” he cursed, and trained his sonar on the reef wall frantically. The human-shells had disappeared in a cloud of rising biomass, which he was able to resolve eventually...  
A moment later, they were floating on the surface. Lifeless, brightly colored, their beaks in a perpetual idiot’s grin. Their eyes stared into the bloody sunset. 
Among them were the human-shells, surfaced and floating with their BCDs inflated to keep them there, following perfect dive-procedure. A chop had kicked up and the waves were...  to a meter and a half in length—into the divers, pounding them remorselessly, knocking them under. The human-shells were taking it with equanimity—you couldn’t panic when you were mere uninhabited meat—but they couldn’t take it forever. Robbie dropped his oars and rowed hard for them, swinging around so they came up alongside his gunwales. 
“Fact!” said he. “What she wanted was romance, and all that sort of thing. She wanted to get away from home, and I was the only chance she had; so there you are!” 
“That wasn’t very fair to you!” 
“I don’t blame her,” he said thoughtfully. “We were both—but what’s the sense of talking about all that? The thing is to find her!” 
Lexy agreed to that promptly. 
“Now I’ll tell you everything that’s happened,” she said. 
He listened to her with alert attention. He interrupted her often to ask questions, but they were always questions that she could answer. He wanted all the facts, and what Lexy told him he unquestioningly accepted as fact. When she said she had seen Caroline at the doctor’s house, he believed her. He didn’t suggest that her eyes might have deceived her. He trusted her—not only her good intentions, but her good sense. 
At last she came to the part of her story about which she was most doubtful—the episode of the emptied bottle. She told it with reluctance. 
“I don’t know now,” she said. “Perhaps I did wrong. Perhaps that really was wanton mischief. I did so hate that horrible drug that changed her so! When I did it, it seemed right; but now—” 
I stopped where I was standing. I'd done as good a job as I could of covering myself. It was time to face my fate. I stepped into the nearest burrito joint and ordered one with carnitas -- shredded pork -- and extra salsa. Might as well go down with a full stomach. I got a bucket of horchata, too, an ice-cold rice drink that's like watery, semi-sweet rice-pudding (better than it sounds). 
I sat down to eat, and a profound calm fell over me. I was about to go to jail for my "crimes," or I wasn't. My freedom since they'd taken me in had been just a temporary holiday. My country was not my friend anymore: we were now on different sides and I'd known I could never win. 
I guess they'd been waiting outside and got tired of my dawdling. 
They stood behind me at the counter, boxing me in. I wanted to eat at least a little of my dessert. It might be the last dessert I got for a long, long time. 
Then I turned around. They were both so close I could see the zit on the cheek of the one on the left, the little booger up the nose of the other. 
She’d get worried, and she wouldn’t understand. I was getting ready to make up something plausible, but then suddenly remem- bered that I actually did have to go somewhere that had totally slipped my mind. I groaned. “There’s this dumb group project for school. I have to meet...  art. 
I’ll probably be out late, writing it up.” 
“That sounds fun.” 
“It’s a dumb assignment. And I hate group projects.” 
“Everybody does. But it’s good for you to have a chance to interact with other people your age.” 
“I interact with them online all the time.” 
“It’s not the same as face to face.” 
“You got that right.” I...  is a lot less annoying.” 
A ctually, I wasn’t too bummed about the group project. It was a dumb assignment for a dumb teacher who gave us so many instructions that every assignment was like assembling a piece of Ikea furniture that was all pre-cut and just had to be put together according to a million detailed steps. The grade was totally based on how well you could follow instructions, and the finished prod- ucts were pointless. With Ikea, at least you ended up with a book- case or a table. 
It was the most wearisome and depressing evening she had ever spent. Her lively and restless spirit had often enough found it dull at the Enderbys’, and at other times and places; but this was different, and infinitely worse. 
To begin with, a sense of guilt lay like lead upon her heart. She hoped and believed that what she had done was right, but she was afraid, terribly afraid, of what might result. She could not keep her eyes off Mrs. Quelton’s face. She watched the doctor’s wife with a dread and anxiety which she felt was ill concealed; and she had a chill suspicion that the doctor was watching her, in turn. 
“Of course, he’s bound to find out some time,” she said to herself. “I wasn’t such a fool as to expect more than a day or two, at the very most; but I did hope there’d be time just to see—” 
Again she glanced at Mrs. Quelton. Was it imagination, or was there already a faint and indefinable change? 
“No, that’s nonsense,” she thought. “There couldn’t be, so soon—although I don’t know how often he gives her that priceless tonic.” 
Of course, Rio still wanted me off the case. Ordinarily someone else’s objections wouldn’t have stopped me, but I had a sneaking thread of suspicion that he was right, that dealing with Pithica truly was out of my league. I’d never felt that way before, and I didn’t like it. 
Presumably, Rio was still going after Dawna himself, but he wasn’t telling us about it. Arthur, meanwhile, was mired in some sort of guilty cognitive dissonance between what Dawna had convinced him of at first and what she had inherently convinced him of later by trying to have me killed in front of him, and seemed perfectly content to hover over me as I recovered. He spent a lot of time on his phone, too, though I never heard him reach anyone. 
As for me, I decided to defer my decision on what to do about Pithica. If I could fool my brain for a while longer into thinking I was still working, that was fine by me. I still couldn’t figure out if I wanted to charge after Dawna Polk with everything I had or run as far away as possible and hope she never found me. Not to mention that some part of me still thought her logic might be right and Pithica might be a pinnacle of moral rectitude and I should do everything I could to help them. It was confusing. And I got a headache whenever I tried to think about it seriously. 
I shrugged. Having the FBI turn down Nikko’s offer of help was a serious setback. I had no idea if my plan would work, espe- cially since it wouldn’t take long for Jason to wonder what hap- pened to his expensive prototype spy equipment and demand that I give it back. 
They thought I was too young to do this on my own. But in the last few days I’d talked a legendary lawyer into tak- ing my brother’s case. I’d rescued a fugitive friend from a frozen shack beside the Mississippi River and found a safe place for him to hide out. 
I’d inspired an MIT professor to make a speech about my brother at an important security conference, and I’d gotten a famous filmmaker interested in making a film about it. I still had stuff to do - like, catch the FBI’s entrapment methods on film and take care of my Secret Avenger client - but I might pull it off. All I needed was some luck and my freedom. 
The kettle whistled, she filled the cups, and put one in front of me. I reached for the honey. “Things could be worse,” I said. 
I hesitated. As a general rule, I didn’t give out information—any information, to anyone, and particularly not to a person I had every reason to mistrust. Still, I wanted to keep him talking, and the value of a few low-intelligence tidbits... 
“Purely fiscal,” I answered. “Someone hired me to protect her.” 
“Who?” 
“Quid pro quo,” I shot back. “What’s your interest?” 
“Guess you could say money started it for me, too. A woman hired me to find out who killed her husband and the father of her eleven-year-old boy.” 
“What does that have to do with Polk?” 
Tresting studied me. “Well, she did it, you see.” 
What the hell? The desert silence blanketed us. “One of the cops on the drug bust,” I guessed. But the police had already blamed Courtney for those murders. Why would the widow feel the need to hire a PI? 
“No,” Tresting said, overly casually. The word fell between us—soft, final, incriminating. “A busy young woman, our Courtney Polk.” 
I’d already known she wasn’t on the level, but I’d been assuming some combination of fear and naïveté. That maybe she hadn’t realized what she’d gotten into, or had been too scared to face it. “She doesn’t seem the type,” I offered, stalling. 
“I need to do something.” 
“Actually, you don’t. You’re only nineteen years old. It’s not your responsibility.” 
“You don’t get it. He is my responsibility. I want him to be. 
And what does my age have to do with it, anyway?” 
“Quite a bit. People your age take risks because you don’t have the maturity to weigh the long-term consequence. No, don’t inter- rupt me. It’s not an insult, it’s a demonstrable fact. You’re smart, 
Zenobia. You have potential, but it could be derailed if you started life out with a criminal record. I would be remiss if I didn’t make sure you understand the risk you’re taking. Might take. Hypothet- ically.” 
“Yeah? Well, I’m not your responsibility.” 
She fixed me with a stern glare. I thought I was about to get chewed out for backtalk, but instead her voice was suddenly gen- tle. “The law works slowly. You want to rescue your brother right now. I get that. You want him to know that you’ll risk everything for him, because you’re family and it matters. But if you can be a little patient, you don’t have to take the risk. I’m working with some very bright, committed young lawyers who care about this case. It’s going to be an uphill battle, but we’ll do our best for your brother and his friends. That’s a promise.” 
"No trouble," he said. 
"None," I agreed. 
He touched something at his belt and the shackles behind me let go, my arms dropping suddenly behind me. It was like he was wearing Batman's utility belt -- wireless remotes for shackles! I guessed it made sense, though: you wouldn't want to lean over your prisoners with all that deadly hardware at their eye-level -- they might grab your gun with their teeth and pull the trigger with their tongues or something. 
My hands were still lashed together behind me by the plastic strapping, and now that I wasn't supported by the shackles, I found that my legs had turned into lumps of cork while I was stuck in one position. Long story short, I basically fell onto my face and kicked my legs weakly as they went pins-and-needles, trying to get them under me so I could rock up to my feet. 
The guy jerked me to my feet and I clown-walked to the very back of the truck, to a little boxed-in porta-john there. I tried to spot Darryl on the way back, but he could have been any of the five or six slumped people. Or none of them. 
There was still light shining through the narrow, obstructed corridor that led to the fresh air outside. I stared at it, through the gloom, and thought of Ange. 
My Ange. Her hair brushing her shoulders as she turned her head from side to side, laughing at something I'd done. Her face when I'd seen her last, falling down in the crowd at VampMob. All those people at VampMob, like the people in the park, down and writhing, the DHS moving in with truncheons. The ones who disappeared. 
Darryl. Stuck on Treasure Island, his side stitched up, taken out of his cell for endless rounds of questioning about the terrorists. 
Darryl's father, ruined and boozy, unshaven. Washed up and in his uniform, "for the photos." Weeping like a little boy. 
My own father, and the way that he had been changed by my disappearance to Treasure Island. He'd been just as broken as Darryl's father, but in his own way. And his face, when I told him where I'd been. 
That was when I knew that I couldn't run. 
That was when I knew that I had to stay and fight. 
Felix whooshed out a breath. He sent the message to the newsgroup, one that he’d run through five drafts before settling on, “Take care of the place, OK? We’ll be back, someday.” 
Everyone was going except Sario. Sario wouldn’t leave. He came down to see them off, though. 
The sysadmins gathered in the lobby and Felix made the safety door go up, and the light rushed in. 
Sario stuck his hand out. 
“Good luck,” he said. 
“You too,” Felix said. He had a firm grip, Sario, stronger than he had any right to be. “Maybe you were right,” he said. 
“Maybe,” he said. 
“You going to pull the plug?” 
Sario looked up at the drop-ceiling, seeming to peer through the reinforced floors at the humming racks above. “Who knows?” he said at last. 
Van scratched and a flurry of white motes danced in the sunlight. 
“Let’s go find you a pharmacy,” Felix said. He walked to the door and the other sysadmins followed. 
They waited for the interior doors to close behind them and then Felix opened the exterior doors. The air smelled and tasted like a mown grass, like the first drops of rain, like the lake and the sky, like the outdoors and the world, an old friend not heard from in an eternity. 
"Anytime. Just give me some notice and I'll try to have the place cleaned up more next time." 
"Don't worry. I like it to look real. Just sign the release and I'll take it from there." I was about to set Rachel back on the floor when something caught in my sweater. Looking down, I realized it was a tiny charm bracelet, with two little medallions on it. One was a little red plastic likeness of Pocahontas, the Disney character, and the other was a silver face of a cat, long and stylized. And on the back, those cu­rious lines and dots again, only these were arranged differ­ently from those on the one Carly's boy Kevin had. 
"Paula, what's this? This cat. Where'd you get it?" 
"Oh, that." She smiled. "She was wearing it when I got her, on a little silk cord around her waist, under her diaper. They told me it was a gift from her real mother, a keepsake. Sort of breaks your heart, but the way they said it, you want to keep it forever. . . ." 
At that moment Erica was just plugging the phone back in, and the second she did, the old, black Panasonic cordless began to ring. 
The maid would not notice when—or if—Miss Moran went out. There was nothing to arouse suspicion in any one. 
They went out to the car. A small trunk was strapped on behind. Everything had been prepared for Miss Enderby’s visit to the country. The chauffeur opened the door and touched his cap respectfully, the two women got in, and off they went. 
“Now you will please to dismiss this subject from your mind,” said Mrs. Enderby. “I do not wish to talk of it.” She spoke kindly now. “You will have a pleasant day in the country.” 
“Day!” said Lexy. “But what time will we get back?” 
“Before dinner.” 
“Oh, I’ve got to get back this afternoon! I’ve got to see some one! It’s important—terribly important!” 
Mrs. Enderby smiled faintly. 
“The chauffeur must see you descend at Miss Craigie’s house,” she said. “Once we are there, I have a hat and coat of your own in the trunk. I shall explain what is necessary to Miss Craigie, who is very discreet, very devoted. You can change then, but you must go home quietly by train; and I think there are not many trains.” 
There. There she was. 
Martinez was a few rows back from the more populated section at the front of the mezzanine, a small, squat silhouette in the darkness. Keeping low, I slipped out of my seat and forward, then down the row so I could sink onto the red velvet of the seat next to her. 
She was perched straight-backed and alert but staring at nothing, twiddling her fingers against each other along with the music. The movements were jerky and almost fanciful, like she was a witch incanting over a nonexistent cauldron. 
“Professor,” I said softly. “Remember me?” 
She ignored me. The music swelled, bursting to a climax. 
“I was working with Professor Halliday,” I said. “We discovered what you proved. We know.” 
Cymbals crashed. The violins screamed across the scale. 
“Sonya,” said Martinez. Her voice was a grandmother’s voice, scratchy yet delighted, tired but mischievous. “She was always too smart for her own good, was Sonya. I’m sorry for what I’ve done to her.” 
“We’re not the only ones who know,” I said. Thanks to me. 
"So how—?" 
"Hopefully, we're going right this minute. There's a river. But if that doesn't work out, there's something I can do to buy us a month's time. Alex Goddard's got a laboratory here, just down the hall, in back of his office. It's the evil center of this place. So if I can get in there and dump all his petri dishes, his in-vitro culture mediums . . . Baby, it's all so dis­gusting. But I'm going to take care of it." 
I was starting to have real trouble just stringing words together into sentences. My hallucinations were still grow­ing, the loud whispers of light, but I did manage to tell him how I thought we could get Sarah and elude the Army, if we did it before sunup, though my plan probably came out pretty jumbled. Yet I felt that if we did it together, we could take care of each other. . . . 
Then, with my remaining strength, I launched into action. 
"Let me check the hall. I just want to shut down his lab. Call it . . . call it insurance. Five minutes, and then we'll be out of here." 
I jerked awake. I was on a thin mattress in the shithole apartment I’d driven to, dirty and bloodied bandages scattered on the floor from redressing my accumulating injuries. My hand, back, and ribs had started to throb, but I could tell that wasn’t what had woken me. 
Sleep had never been particularly restful for me, but in the last two years the nightmares had become worse and worse. More detailed and more crippling. When I wasn’t on the job, I couldn’t hope to stay asleep for more than half an hour before I woke, tangled and sweating and hyperventilating. Getting blackout drunk was the only thing that helped. 
And now I was having trouble while working. Work had always focused me, kept me sane, but now... 
I wasn’t stupid; I knew why it was happening. Two years ago was when we’d gone up against Pithica, when a psychic had rooted through my brain like it was her own personal rummage sale. I didn’t think she had taken any particular care not to break anything. 
It was what it was. Just something I had to deal with now, I supposed. 
“But I’m so awfully sorry for you!” 
“It was pretty hard, at first,” he said; “but—well, you see, I’ve thought a bit about it, and after all I’m glad we didn’t get married.” 
“Oh!” cried Lexy, profoundly shocked. “But that’s—” 
“Because I—you see, she didn’t—well, I don’t think she really liked me very much.” 
Lexy was astounded. 
“Fact!” said he. “What she wanted was romance, and all that sort of thing. She wanted to get away from home, and I was the only chance she had; so there you are!” 
“That wasn’t very fair to you!” 
“I don’t blame her,” he said thoughtfully. “We were both—but what’s the sense of talking about all that? The thing is to find her!” 
Lexy agreed to that promptly. 
“Now I’ll tell you everything that’s happened,” she said. 
He listened to her with alert attention. He interrupted her often to ask questions, but they were always questions that she could answer. He wanted all the facts, and what Lexy told him he unquestioningly accepted as fact. When she said she had seen Caroline at the doctor’s house, he believed her. He didn’t suggest that her eyes might have deceived her. He trusted her—not only her good intentions, but her good sense. 
"Oh, she's your favorite, isn't she?" Trish asked, goosing Damian's bicep and taking a sip of his peach ginger-ade. The pundit had been in heavy rotation since the TV went back on the air. She was a Norwegian academic mathematician who wrote books of popular philosophy. She was a collection of trademark affectations: a jacket with built-up shoulders, a monocle, a string tie, nipple tassels, and tattooed cross-hatching on her face that made her look like a woodcut of a Victorian counting-house clerk. Damian loathed her -- she'd been on the committee to which he'd defended his Philosophy of Networks thesis, and she'd busted his balls so hard that they still ached a decade later when he saw her on the tube. 
The pundit explained the packet-switching, using trains versus automobiles as a metaphor: "In a circuit uniwerse, every communication gets its own dedicated line, like a train on a track. Ven I vant to talk to you, ve build a circuit -- a train track -- betveen our dewices. No one else can use those tracks, even if ve're not talking. But packet-svitching is like a freevay. Ve break the information up into packets and ve give every packet its own little car, and it finds its own vay to the other end. If vun car doesn't arrive, ve make a copy of its information and send it again. The cars have brakes and steering veels, and so they can all share the same road vithout too much trouble." 
This was a disappointment to the public, but there was always the mysterious dark woman. The police instituted a search for her, and there was much about her in the newspapers, but she was never found. 
Miss Enderby returned to the city from her visit to Miss Craigie, and friends of the family were interested to learn that while away she had met such a nice young man—a Captain Grey, from India. He had to return to his regiment, but, before he went, Caroline’s engagement to him was announced. Later he was to retire from the army and come back to live in New York. 
There was another item of news, of minor importance. That pretty little secretary of Mrs. Enderby’s got married, and the Enderbys were wonderfully kind about it—surprisingly so. It didn’t seem at all like Mrs. Enderby to let the girl be married from her own house, and to give her a smart little car for a wedding present. What is more, Mr. Enderby found a very good position in his office for the young man. 
“My dear Sophie,” said one of Mrs. Enderby’s old friends, with the peculiar candor of an old friend, “I’ve never known you to do so much for any one before!” 
"Is that a question or a statement of the obvious?" 
"Neither. It's an order." 
I bought some funny stickers that said THIS PHONE IS TAPPED which were the right size to put on the receivers on the pay phones that still lined the streets of the Mission, it being the kind of neighborhood where you got people who couldn't necessarily afford a cellphone. 
We walked out into the night air. I told Ange about the scene at the park when I left. 
"I bet they have a hundred of those trucks parked around the block," she said. "The better to bust you with." 
"Um." I looked around. "I sort of hoped that you would say something like, 'Aw, there's no chance they'll do anything about it.'" 
"I don't think that's really the idea. The idea is to put a lot of civilians in a position where the cops have to decide, are we going to treat these ordinary people like terrorists? It's a little like the jamming, but with music instead of gadgets. You jam, right?" 
Sometimes I forget that all my friends don't know that Marcus and M1k3y are the same person. "Yeah, a little," I said. 
"Johanna has something to tell you," Peyton said. 
Johanna sat down and scrubbed at her eyes with her fists. "First thing I did was go out and buy some off-the-shelf IDSes and a beam-splitter. I tapped into BIGMAC's fiber at a blind-spot in the CCTV coverage zone, just in case he was watching. Been wire-tapping him ever since." 
I nodded. "Smart." 
"Second thing I did was start to do some hardcore analysis of that patchkit he wrote --" I held my hand up automatically to preserve the fiction that I'd written it, but she just glared at me. "That he wrote. And I discovered that there's a subtle error in it, a buffer overflow in the networking module that allows for arbitrary code execution." 
I swallowed. BIGMAC had loaded a backdoor into his patchkit, and we'd installed it on the better part of 14 billion CPUs. 
"Has anyone exploited this bug yet?" 
She gave me a condescending look. 
"How many systems has he compromised?" 
"About eight billion, we think. He's designated a million to act as redundant command servers, and he's got about ten thousand lieutenant systems he uses to diffuse messages to the million." 
“Is there any chance he’s like Zip, somebody the FBI hired to provoke people?” 
Nikko looked as if I’d just handed him a giant hairball. He thought for a minute, replaying things in his head. “No,” he finally said. “He’s not a good actor.” 
“What do you mean? All he does is act.” 
“He’s pretending. There’s a difference. He wants to be a cer- tain kind of person, so he pretends he’s a radical, a guy brave enough to stand up to the Man. He’s good at fooling himself, 
but acting means being able to read people. I don’t think he pays enough attention to other people, except as a kind of mirror he can gaze in to see how awesome he is. If he was going to work for the FBI, he’d have the loudmouth part down, but he’d have trou- ble drawing other people in.” 
“I see what you mean.” I thought back to the creepy way Zip manipulated people so that they would want to be admitted into his inner circle. It was partly by showing off, like Simon, but there was more to it than that. When he looked at me, he was paying attention, adjusting his identity to make it appeal to me. He was much better at manipulation because he wasn’t as fixated on him- self as Simon was. “I think I’m just nervous. Jumping at shadows.” 
His engine had stalled, and he set to work to crank it, while Lexy stood beside him. 
“Drive awfully fast, will you?” she asked. 
He was too busy to answer for a moment. Then, when his engine was running again, he straightened up and looked at her. 
“No, ma’am!” he said firmly. “No more of that for me! Not after what happened a while ago. No, ma’am! I had my lesson!” 
“An accident?” inquired Lexy politely. 
“Well,” he said slowly, “I s’pose it was; but the more I think it over, the more I dunno!” 
In the brightness cast by the headlights, Lexy could see his face very well, and the look on it gave her a strange little thrill of fear. It was not a handsome or intelligent face, but it was a very honest one, and she saw, written plain upon it, a very honest doubt and dismay. Like herself, he wasn’t sure. 
“It was this way,” he went on. “About three miles up Carterstown way there’s a bad piece of road. There’s a steep hill, and a crossroad cuts across the foot of it, and it’s too narrer for two cars to pass. It’s a bad piece, and I always been keerful there. I was keerful that night. I was coming along the crossroad, and I heard another car somewhere, and I sounded the horn two or three times before I come to the foot of the hill. Jest as I got there, and was turning up the hill, down comes another car, full tilt. I couldn’t git out o’ the way. There’s stone walls on both sides. I tried to back, but he crashed into me. I kind of fainted, I guess. My cab was all smashed up, and I was cut pretty bad with glass. They found me lying there about an hour after. The other fellow—he was killed.” He stopped for a minute. “If it hadn’t been fer his license number, nobody could ’a’ known who he was, he was so smashed up. Seems he was from New York, driving a taxi belonging to one of them big companies.” 
“That was Benny,” she said. “Mom was very cross with him about it. She’ll be back soon, Dad, and I want you to promise me that you’ll hear her out, OK?” 
“I promise, rotten,” he said. 
“I love you, Daddy,” she said in her most syrupy voice. He gave her a squeeze on the shoulder and a slap on the butt. 
He opened the door again. Benny was there, imperturbable. Unlike the UNATS robots, he was odorless, and perfectly silent. 
“I’m going to go to the toilet and then make...  
“I would be happy to assist in any way possible.” 
“I can wipe myself, thanks,” Arturo said. He washed his face twice and tried to rinse away the flavor left behind by whatever had shat in his mouth while he was unconscious. There was a splayed toothbrush in a glass by the sink, and if it was his wife’s—and whose else could it be?—it wouldn’t be the first time he’d shared a toothbrush with her. But he couldn’t bring himself to do it. Instead, he misted some dentifrice onto his fingertip and rubbed his teeth a little. 
She didn't twitch a muscle. I went ahead of her to the back of the truck and behind the screen. There was a single folding chair and I sat in it. Two of them -- Severe Haircut woman and utility belt man -- looked at me from their ergonomic super-chairs. 
They had a little table between them with the contents of my wallet and backpack spread out on it. 
"Hello, Marcus," Severe Haircut woman said. "We have some questions for you." 
"Am I under arrest?" I asked. This wasn't an idle question. If you're not under arrest, there are limits on what the cops can and can't do to you. For starters, they can't hold you forever without arresting you, giving you a phone call, and letting you talk to a lawyer. And hoo-boy, was I ever going to talk to a lawyer. 
"What's this for?" she said, holding up my phone. The screen was showing the error message you got if you kept trying to get into its data without giving the right password. It was a bit of a rude message -- an animated hand giving a certain universally recognized gesture -- because I liked to customize my gear. 
<zen> They'll be looking for you, too. 
<wheeze> I know. I'm heading out. 
<zen> Be safe. 
Whatever was going on, I really didn’t want Wheeze to get in trouble. He was my friend, and I didn’t have enough of them to spare. He was smart and funny and the kind of person who would take a bug outside and let it go to avoid squashing it. I was afraid that he would disappear and I might never see him again. At least we had a secure way to communicate. 
<zen> Keep in touch. 
What if he didn’t? I thought about what it would be like with- out Wheeze to hang out with. Be safe. Keep in touch. There would be a big hole full of nothing in my life. 
But I couldn’t worry about that now. I had to find out where they’d taken my brother. 
O kay, first? Let’s get this straight. Wilson drives me crazy. 
But still, he’s my brother, right? 
When I was little, Wilson was just there, always. He would hold my hand when I was afraid and carried me if I got tired. He took my side when I got in trouble and sometimes he kept me out of it - or got me into it, or both. 
"Of course you don't. Men have no interest in the careers of women! But I know Rebecca better than you." 
"You understand her mind better, but not necessarily her heart. You are considering her for the moment as prodigy; I am thinking of her more as pearl." 
"Well," sighed Miss Maxwell whimsically, "prodigy or pearl, the Randall Protective Agency may pull Rebecca in opposite directions, but nevertheless she will follow her saint." 
"That will content me," said Adam gravely. 
"Particularly if the saint beckons your way." And Miss Maxwell looked up and smiled provokingly. 
Rebecca did not see her aunt Miranda till she had been at the brick house for several days. Miranda steadily refused to have any one but Jane in the room until her face had regained its natural look, but her door was always ajar, and Jane fancied she liked to hear Rebecca's quick, light step. Her mind was perfectly clear now, and, save that she could not move, she was most of the time quite free from pain, and alert in every nerve to all that was going on within or without the house. "Were the windfall apples being picked up for sauce; were the potatoes thick in the hills; was the corn tosselin' out; were they cuttin' the upper field; were they keepin' fly-paper laid out everywheres; were there any ants in the dairy; was the kindlin' wood holdin' out; had the bank sent the cowpons?" 
"I can help you. I should do that for you. You're doing what you can for me. (Even if you're not doing it with my permission.) 
"Reply if you get this, if you're on the run and alone. Or reply if you're in custody, being run by our friends on Gitmo, looking for a way to make the pain stop. If they've got you, you'll do what they tell you. I know that. I'll take that risk. 
"For you, M1k3y." 
"Wooooah," Liam breathed. "Duuuuude." I wanted to smack him. I turned to say something awful and cutting to him, but he was staring at me with eyes as big as saucers, looking like he wanted to drop to his knees and worship me. 
"Can I just say," Nate said, "can I just say that it is the biggest honor of my entire life to help you? Can I just say that?" 
I was blushing now. There was nothing for it. These two were totally star-struck, even though I wasn't any kind of star, not in my own mind at least. 
"Can you guys --" I swallowed. "Can I have some privacy here?" 
They slunk out of the room like bad puppies and I felt like a tool. I typed fast. 
"You can return to class now," he said. "I'll call on you once the police are ready to speak to you." 
"Are you going to call them now?" 
"The procedure for calling in the police is complicated. I'd hoped that we could settle this fairly and quickly, but since you insist --" 
"I can wait while you call them is all," I said. "I don't mind." 
He tapped his ring again and I braced for the blast. 
" Go! " he yelled. "Get the hell out of my office, you miserable little --" 
I got out, keeping my expression neutral. He wasn't going to call the cops. If he'd had enough evidence to go to the police with, he would have called them in the first place. He hated my guts. I figured he'd heard some unverified gossip and hoped to spook me into confirming it. 
I moved down the corridor lightly and sprightly, keeping my gait even and measured for the gait-recognition cameras. These had been installed only a year before, and I loved them for their sheer idiocy. Beforehand, we'd had face-recognition cameras covering nearly every public space in school, but a court ruled that was unconstitutional. So Benson and a lot of other paranoid school administrators had spent our textbook dollars on these idiot cameras that were supposed to be able to tell one person's walk from another. Yeah, right. 
› I don’t much care if I win, to be honest. I”m just glad we’re doing this. The alternative was sitting around with our thumbs up our ass, waiting for someone to crack up and open the door. 
The cursor hung. Queen Kong was very high latency as she bossed her gang of Googloids around the Googleplex, doing everything she could to keep her data center online. Three of the offshore cages had gone offline and two of their six redundant network links were smoked. Lucky for her, queries-per-second were way down. 
she typed. Queen Kong had a big board with a map of the world colored in Google-queries-per-second, and could do magic with it, showing the drop-off over time in colorful charts. She’d uploaded lots of video clips showing how the plague and the bombs had swept the world: the initial upswell of queries from people wanting to find out what was going on, then the grim, precipitous shelving off as the plagues took hold. 
› China’s still running about ninety percent nominal. 
She typed, but then she started to key something and then stopped. 
"I would like to speak to an attorney," I said. 
Severe haircut lady looked at me like I was a bug. "You're under the mistaken impression that you've been picked up by the police for a crime. You need to get past that. You are being detained as a potential enemy combatant by the government of the United States. If I were you, I'd be thinking very hard about how to convince us that you are not an enemy combatant. Very hard. Because there are dark holes that enemy combatants can disappear into, very dark deep holes, holes where you can just vanish. Forever. Are you listening to me young man? I want you to unlock this phone and then decrypt the files in its memory. I want you to account for yourself: why were you out on the street? What do you know about the attack on this city?" 
"I'm not going to unlock my phone for you," I said, indignant. My phone's memory had all kinds of private stuff on it: photos, emails, little hacks and mods I'd installed. "That's private stuff." 
"What have you got to hide?" 
I glanced sharply at Tresting, but he was already nodding to concede the name. “Thought you wouldn’t have trouble with that.” 
“Your identity was easy enough to deduce. Your associate, however...” He extended a hand to me. “May I ask whom I have the pleasure of addressing?” 
I snorted. “You can ask. And who are you?” 
“Call me Steve.” 
At least he was obvious about it being an alias. I jerked my head toward Tresting. “So, Steve. Now that you know who he is, are you going to make trouble for Arthur here?” 
“Well, I suppose that depends.” 
“On what?” 
“On whether the two of you are determined to make trouble for me.” He sat, laying his hands against the top of the picnic table deliberately—and over-dramatically, in my opinion. “Let me be frank. I could not care less about any police trouble in which you two have ensnared yourselves. It would frankly be a waste of my time to become bogged down with aiding local law enforcement in their Gordian investigative practices; that is quite beneath my interest. I do, however, very much care about any involvement you may have with the organization known as Pithica.” 
She let him lead the way toward the front. Trover was whimpering now—he’d twisted his ankle when she’d shoved him—and she whispered to him to be still. 
Her plan was stupid. The old hero was going to lead her into a trap, not to the high command, and she knew it. 
“I suppose I should just shoot you,” she said. 
“Why do you say that?” He was so calm. What kind of man was this? 
“You’ll lead me to a trap and have me shot or arrested. I have to see the infowar command. I have to win the war.” 
“You dream big, little girl. I have been persecuting the war on our enemies since before your hero mother was born. The first thing I learned is that war is the art of the possible. It is possible that we will win the siege, given enough time and losses. It is not possible that you will win the war.” 
“So you’ll have me shot rather than try.” 
“I wouldn’t have you shot if I could help it. I owe your mother that much.” 
“If you keep talking about my mother I will shoot you.” She found his calm tone calmed her, too. The soldiers still saluted them, the old people waved, and she supposed that if any of them knew she had the old hero under the gun, she’d be torn to pieces. But she was calm and the day was a sunny one. 
I did my key and did the perp-walk around the gang, letting everyone snap a pic. Then I climbed up on the high spot I'd spoken from earlier and called for everyone's attention. 
"So a lot of you have noted that there's a vital flaw in this procedure: what if this laptop can't be trusted? What if it's secretly recording our instructions? What if it's spying on us? What if Jose-Luis and I can't be trusted?" 
More good-natured chuckles. A little warmer than before, more beery. 
"I mean it," I said. "If we were on the wrong side, this could get all of us -- all of you -- into a heap of trouble. Jail, maybe." 
The chuckles turned more nervous. 
"So that's why I'm going to do this," I said, and picked up a hammer I'd brought from my Dad's toolkit. I set the laptop down beside me on the rock and swung the hammer, Jolu following the swing with his keychain light. Crash -- I'd always dreamt of killing a laptop with a hammer, and here I was doing it. It felt pornographically good. And bad. 
Smash! The screen-panel fell off, shattered into millions of pieces, exposing the keyboard. I kept hitting it, until the keyboard fell off, exposing the motherboard and the hard-drive. Crash! I aimed square for the hard-drive, hitting it with everything I had. It took three blows before the case split, exposing the fragile media inside. I kept hitting it until there was nothing bigger than a cigarette lighter, then I put it all in a garbage bag. The crowd was cheering wildly -- loud enough that I actually got worried that someone far above us might hear over the surf and call the law. 
Uh-oh, I thought. Was he leaving a package bomb for me? 
I turned back and let myself into the outer lobby, glancing around as I did. There were no parcels anywhere, just blank, brown tile. 
My apartment was 3A. The name on the bell was M. James. As I stepped through the inner lobby—still no pack­age—a rumpled face appeared in the doorway just to my left. The sign on it, flaking, said SUPER. 
"Oh, hi." The voice was Patrick Mooney, our superinten­dent, who did not normally emerge to greet those arriving. But there had been complaints from the building's managing agent that he could never be found for emergencies, so he probably wanted to appear available, even on Sundays. His voice was slurred from some midday medicinal Irish whisky. "Thought you were home. FedEx guy was here earlier look­ing for you." 
Oh, boy. "Did he leave a package?" 
"He had something with him, if that's what you mean. Like a bag of some kind." 
"And you let him go up?" I couldn't believe what I was hearing. I felt a rush of dismay. 
This time Mrs. Enderby made no answer at all. There she sat, stout, majestic, absolutely impervious, looking out of the window as if Lexy did not exist. What was to be done? She couldn’t communicate with the chauffeur except by leaning across Mrs. Enderby, and a struggle with that lady was out of the question. 
“But I’m not going on!” she thought. 
She waited until the car slowed down at a crossing. Then she made a sudden dart for the door. With equal suddenness Mrs. Enderby seized her arm. 
“Sit down!” she said, in a singularly unpleasant whisper. “There shall be no scene. Sit down, I tell you!” 
“I won’t!” replied Lexy, but just then the car started forward, and she fell back on the seat. 
“You will come with me,” said Mrs. Enderby. 
That overbearing tone, that grasp on her arm, were very nearly too much for Lexy. She had always been quick-tempered. All the Morans were, and were perversely proud of it, too; but Lexy had learned many lessons in a hard school. She had learned to control her temper, and she did so now. She was silent for a time. 
There would be no question of walking for many a month to come, but blessings seemed to multiply when the blinds could be opened and the bed drawn near the window; when mother, with pillows behind her, could at least sit and watch the work going on, could smile at the past agony and forget the weary hours that had led to her present comparative ease and comfort. 
No girl of seventeen can pass through such an ordeal and come out unchanged; no girl of Rebecca's temperament could go through it without some inward repining and rebellion. She was doing tasks in which she could not be fully happy,—heavy and trying tasks, which perhaps she could never do with complete success or satisfaction; and like promise of nectar to thirsty lips was the vision of joys she had had to put aside for the performance of dull daily duty. How brief, how fleeting, had been those splendid visions when the universe seemed open for her young strength to battle and triumph in! How soon they had faded into the light of common day! At first, sympathy and grief were so keen she thought of nothing but her mother's pain. No consciousness of self interposed between her and her filial service; then, as the weeks passed, little blighted hopes began to stir and ache in her breast; defeated ambitions raised their heads as if to sting her; unattainable delights teased her by their very nearness; by the narrow line of separation that lay between her and their realization. It is easy, for the moment, to tread the narrow way, looking neither to the right nor left, upborne by the sense of right doing; but that first joy of self-denial, the joy that is like fire in the blood, dies away; the path seems drearier and the footsteps falter. 
Still, the big question kept coming back: Where did he get all the babies? To extract any more information about that from Quetzal Manor, I'd have to break into an office somewhere, and I wasn't quite up to that yet. I didn't have the nerve of Colonel Jose Alvino Ramos. 
"Tell you what, Tara, I think I'm out of here." I was re­turning the Betacam to its bag. Nothing I'd shot was remotely broadcast quality, but I did have proof of what was going on. My "undercover" investigation was making some head­way. 
"Okay." She sighed her expression increasingly glazed. 
I took one last look around the room, at the row of bas­sinets, then gave her a parting pat and headed for the exit. 
"Look," I said turning back as I reached the door. "Don't say anything to anybody about me being here tonight, okay? Can we just let it be our secret?" 
"Sure, whatever." She shrugged absently. Like, why not. 
"And Tara, do yourself a favor. Get out of this place." 
"But there's nowhere else I can go," she said sadness in her eyes. As I slowly closed the door, the last thing I heard was the sound of the Beethoven sonata dying away. 
"And what if I don't choose to go along with this cha­rade?" 
"We would both be in jeopardy. They're entirely capable of . . . things I'd rather not have to elaborate on." 
I sat there, feeling a chill envelop the room. How was I going to get out of this place? 
"By the way, a while ago Sarah mentioned something about a 'ceremony.' What's that—?" 
"It's a special time here." His gaze shifted to the ceiling. "In fact, it's supposed to take place in three days, but the Army has informed me it has to be two days from now. That's the day they rotate the troops here, so there'll be double strength." 
"But why do they need—" 
"Things can get a bit frenzied." He smiled, though he seemed to be embarrassed. "However, the people will love the fact you're here to share it with them." 
Did he say "frenzied"? My mind immediately flashed on the Aztec rituals of ripping out beating hearts. But the Maya didn't go to that extreme, at least so far as I knew. Once again, though, I had the feeling I was only hearing what he wanted me to know, not the whole truth. It felt like a chess game where I didn't know the location of all the pieces or how they could move. 
"Wait!" I cried. "Please! I'll sign them!" They dragged me to the door. All I could see was that door, all I could think of was it closing behind me. 
I lost it. I wept. I begged to be allowed to sign the papers. To be so close to freedom and have it snatched away, it made me ready to do anything. I can't count the number of times I've heard someone say, "Oh, I'd rather die than do something-or-other" -- I've said it myself now and again. But that was the first time I understood what it really meant. I would have rather died than go back to my cell. 
I begged as they took me out into the corridor. I told them I'd sign anything. 
She called out to the guards and they stopped. They brought me back. They sat me down. One of them put the pen in my hand. 
Of course, I signed, and signed and signed. 
My jeans and t-shirt were back in my cell, laundered and folded. They smelled of detergent. I put them on and washed my face and sat on my cot and stared at the wall. They'd taken everything from me. First my privacy, then my dignity. I'd been ready to sign anything. I would have signed a confession that said I'd assassinated Abraham Lincoln. 
Her breath was coming in little pants now. She bit her lip to keep from screaming. 
She pulled her clothes back on as quietly as she could and slipped out into the night to find the wizard, clutching her pea light. Many times she’d walked toward his house in the night, but she’d always turned back. Now she had to see him. 
She passed three zombies in the dark, two dead on the ground and riddled with bullet holes, one leaning out a fifth-story window and screaming its incoherent rage out at the city. 
As she drew nearer to the wizard’s door, an unshakable fatal conclusion gripped her: he was long gone, shot or gassed, or simply moved to somewhere else. It had been months and months since he’d given her the printer-clothes and the dumplings and surely he was dead now. Who wasn’t? 
Her steps slowed as she came to his block. Each step was the work of half a minute or more. She didn’t want to see his old door hanging off its hinges, didn’t want to see the ruins of the brave curves and swoops of his flat and his furniture. 
“Well, I got a lot of old books and no time to read them. If you record them for me, I can listen while I do the chores.” 
“Deal.” He held out a hand and she slapped her palm into it, 
sealing the arrangement with a shake that made him wince. “You guys? Thanks,” he added, looking at Nikko and Bree, then at me. 
We looked at each other for a minute. 
“Stay safe,” I said, feeling a falling sensation inside, as sudden and shocking as plunging deep into a cold pool. I suddenly real- ized how much I would miss messing around with Wheeze. Given that he was wanted by the FBI, just like my brother, and probably faced years and years of prison if they caught him, I wasn’t sure if we’d ever hang out together again. It had been such a relief to find him that I‘d forgotten how much trouble he still faced. 
One thought formed and rose through that icy feeling like a bub- ble that hit the surface and popped. “Wait, is it okay if I install another program on your machine?” I asked Jane Shandy. 
“Go for it,” she said, so I downloaded the desktop version of Convo. 
"Oh, they tried that," she said, sipping from the triple-filtered water that was always at her elbow. "No one had much to say. The collaboration spaces update themselves with all the interesting leads from everyone's research, and the suggestion engine is pretty good at making sure you get an overview of anything relevant to your work going on." She shrugged. "This place is a show-room, more than anything else. I always figured you had to give creative people room to be creative." 
He mulled this over. "How long do you figure they'll keep this place open if it doesn't sell anything to one of the vat people?" 
"I try not to think about that too much," she said lightly. "I figure either we don't find something, run out of time and shut -- and there's nothing I can do about it; or we find something in time and stay open -- and there's nothing I can do about it." 
"That's depressing." 
"I think of it as liberating. It's like that lady said, Leon, you've got a sweet gig. You can make anything you can imagine, and if you hit one out of the park, you'll attain orbit and never reenter the atmosphere." 
“Cas—” 
“Yeah, you just go and tell everyone what to do—” put in Arthur. 
“Cas, I cannot impress upon you the danger of—” 
“I ain’t trusting you to keep her safe!” 
“Hey!” The shout sent spikes of pain shooting through my still-damaged lungs, but I didn’t care. This was like trying to corral wet, angry cats. Rio thought Arthur useless, Arthur thought Rio an abomination, Checker didn’t trust anyone anymore, and Rio didn’t trust anyone ever, apparently me included. For crying out loud, I was the only one who wanted to be a team player, which was so laughable it pissed me right the hell off. Not to mention the ridiculous, chauvinistic chivalry that apparently came mandatory with a Y-chromosome—I was capable of wiping the floor with both Rio and Arthur at once, and they thought they had a right to dictate what I should do? No wonder I preferred to work alone. 
“I’m done with this,” I snapped, and hit the button on the phone to redial Checker, putting him on speaker again. “Okay, you three, listen up,” I said the moment he picked up. “Pithica’s come after all of us. They’ve tried to kill us, they’ve tried to brainwash us, and they’ve messed up our world in ways we probably know nothing about. Two of you have been chasing them for months; Rio, you’ve been going after them forever. I tell you I think we can finally make a difference and bring them down and you choose to give up now?” 
They’d watched the USGS’s automated data-stream from the 6.9 that trashed northern Cal from Gilroy to Sebastopol. Soma webcams revealed the scope of the damage—gas main explosions, seismically retrofitted buildings crumpling like piles of children’s blocks after a good kicking. The Googleplex, floating on a series of gigantic steel springs, had shook like a plateful of jello, but the racks had stayed in place and the worst injury they’d had was a badly bruised eye on a sysadmin who’d caught a flying cable-crimper in the face. 
› Sorry. I forgot. 
› It’s OK. We all lost people, right? 
Fuckrag was the epithet that some of the sysadmins were using to describe the contingent that wanted to shut down the Internet. Queen Kong had coined it—apparently it had started life as a catch-all term to describe the clueless IT managers that she’d chewed up through her career. 
The Googloids were one of the largest and most powerful blocs left behind, along with the satellite uplink crews and the remaining transoceanic crews. Queen Kong’s endorsement had come as a surprise and he’d sent her an email that she’d replied to tersely: “can’t have the fuckrags in charge.” 
I said I didn't understand and Tony looked at me with pity. He said, The Ones In Charge are running all the cities, Microsoft and England and BBD&O and Red Stripe. They know everything that's going on. This is all a game for them. 
And I said, Boy, you don't know anything! BBD&O is our biggest enemy! File-O-Gator is locked in a death-struggle with them, it said so on the news this morning! 
Jap, Tony said, we're not fighting BBD&O -- File-O-Gator is. We're riding a slidewalk back home. Can't you tell the difference between fighting and riding a slidewalk? 
And I said, Of course I can! That's full of sophistry! (Another Power Word, which means cow-patties) We're part of File-O-Gator. File-O-Gator is fighting BBD&O. That means we're fighting BBD&O, Ergo. (That means, So there!) 
Tony laughed and said, That's where you're wrong! File-O-Gator is just the long arm of one of the Ones In Charge. He probably slept with the wife of the One In Charge who runs BBD&O, and now they're fighting it out. 
He opened the door again. Benny was there, imperturbable. Unlike the UNATS robots, he was odorless, and perfectly silent. 
“I’m going to go to the toilet and then make...  
“I would be happy to assist in any way possible.” 
“I can wipe myself, thanks,” Arturo said. He washed his face twice and tried to rinse away the flavor left behind by whatever had shat in his mouth while he was unconscious. There was a splayed toothbrush in a glass by the sink, and if it was his wife’s—and whose else could it be?—it wouldn’t be the first time he’d shared a toothbrush with her. But he couldn’t bring himself to do it. Instead, he misted some dentifrice onto his fingertip and rubbed his teeth a little. 
There was a hairbrush by the sink, too, with short mousy hairs caught in it. Some of them were grey, but they were still familiar enough. He had to stop himself from smelling the hairbrush. 
“Oh, Ada,” he called through the door. 
“Yes, Detective?” 
“Tell me about your hair-don’t, please.” 
“It was a disguise,” she said, giggling. “Mom did it for me.” 
Those are complicated machines, those things, and they're off-limits to the likes of you and me. But a computer is like, ten times more complicated, and it will dance to any tune you play. You can learn to write simple code in an afternoon. Start with a language like Python, which was written to give non-programmers an easier way to make the machine dance to their tune. Even if you only write code for one day, one afternoon, you have to do it. Computers can control you or they can lighten your work -- if you want to be in charge of your machines, you have to learn to write code. 
We wrote a lot of code that night. 
I wasn't the only one who got screwed up by the histograms. There are lots of people who have abnormal traffic patterns, abnormal usage patterns. Abnormal is so common, it's practically normal. 
The Xnet was full of these stories, and so were the newspapers and the TV news. Husbands were caught cheating on their wives; wives were caught cheating on their husbands, kids were caught sneaking out with illicit girlfriends and boyfriends. A kid who hadn't told his parents he had AIDS got caught going to the clinic for his drugs. 
“Yes! I am! I am!” cried Lexy, overwhelmed with delight. “Can you take me there?” 
“I can,” he replied; “but what on earth are you doing out here?” 
“I got lost,” said Lexy. “Where is this, anyhow?” 
“Wyngate station,” said he. “I’ll be gosh-darned! I never! Lost?” 
“Yes,” said Lexy. “Aren’t you the driver who took me up the day I came here?” 
“That’s me—only taxi in Wyngate. Took you out to the Queltons’, too. Hop in, miss!” 
His engine had stalled, and he set to work to crank it, while Lexy stood beside him. 
“Drive awfully fast, will you?” she asked. 
He was too busy to answer for a moment. Then, when his engine was running again, he straightened up and looked at her. 
“No, ma’am!” he said firmly. “No more of that for me! Not after what happened a while ago. No, ma’am! I had my lesson!” 
“An accident?” inquired Lexy politely. 
“Well,” he said slowly, “I s’pose it was; but the more I think it over, the more I dunno!” 
In the brightness cast by the headlights, Lexy could see his face very well, and the look on it gave her a strange little thrill of fear. It was not a handsome or intelligent face, but it was a very honest one, and she saw, written plain upon it, a very honest doubt and dismay. Like herself, he wasn’t sure. 
“Please.” Her voice cracked on the word. “I’m pleading with you. What you could bring to mathematics—you can’t walk away. You can’t.” 
“It’s my life,” I said, slamming down the tequila bottle on the rail. “I sure as hell can.” I turned and pushed off the deck, down the stairs, and away from the house. 
Professor Halliday’s words echoed in my ears all the way back to my current apartment, as if my skull were empty with only her voice rattling around inside. 
Collaborate with me. We work well together. 
I shook my head, violently, as if that would fling the words out, make me forget what we had just done. 
I went inside and sat down at my table. I had some printouts on it, some journal papers I’d been reading before this case started. A lifetime ago. 
I picked one up. One of the latest advancements in number theory. 
I glanced it over. I’d read to the end of this one already. The final conclusion included questions for future research. 
Number theory. 
Number theory was easy. Piece of cake, I told myself, the claim trembling even in my thoughts. 
I got to the back wall—well, lurched against it. I fumbled with the latch on one of the windows with my left hand, but the thing was rusted shut and my fingers were slick with blood. I’d lost the AK at some point, but I pulled out my knife and bashed the hilt against the pane. Large shards cascaded down. I started using the blade to break off any jagged bits remaining in the bottom of the frame; I had no desire to be cut up more than I already was. 
“Hands in the air,” said a quiet voice behind me. 
I turned slightly. 
The same fucking DHS agent from before stood across the room, her tall silhouette backlit in the door. Aiming a gun at me. Again. 
“I thought it was you,” she said evenly. “Hands in the air. You’re coming in this time.” 
Still, she was only one DHS agent. And she had a gun aimed at me, but all I needed was a split-second distraction... 
Under normal circumstances, the mathematics reminded me. 
That was the bad thing about mathematics: it wasn’t going to be swayed by what I wanted reality to be. Usually it told me how I could win, but this time...this time the escape avenues shriveled and curdled away, stricken down by disinterested logic. My weakened state shortened the possibilities, made it so every move I could make, the agent could counter. 
"Where's Kevin now?" I was so concerned about Carly that I'd repressed the information that he'd also mentioned me. 
"Marcy was there, so I told her to take him with her. To her mother's place in the Bronx, where she lives." Carly was still trembling as she loosened her grip on me. "I called a car service to drive them up." 
"Well, come on in. Let's talk." Truthfully, I wasn't sure how much I wanted to tell her about what I'd just seen at Quetzal Manor. It would probably just distress her more. Where had Kevin come from? Did I really want to de-legitimize him in her eyes? 
As I led her through the lobby, hoping to appear com­posed, Patrick Mooney greeted us, announcing that his sister, Rosalyn, had been gone for an hour and that she appreciated my memorable tip. 
The place looked like nothing had happened, and Carly immediately collapsed onto my "earth-tone" couch. I hadn't told her my apartment had been tossed along with the rob­bery and, thanks to Rosalyn, I didn't need to. In fact, it ac­tually looked cleaner than it had in months. Maybe, I thought, I should reprioritize my life and hire her more often. 
“Are there safe places?” Ana said. 
“Oh, Ana, you cynic,” the wizard said. “There are many, many safe places. The world is full of them. They are the exception, not the rule. Isn’t that why you’ve come here?” 
“We’re not talking about why I came here,” Ana said. She nodded back at Valentine and made a little scooting hand-gesture at her. Valentine couldn’t decide if she liked Ana, though Ana was very pretty. 
“I need help for my family,” she said. 
“And why would I give help?” the wizard said. He was still smiling, but that face of his, the face that looked like he’d been wounded and never quite healed, it was set in an expression that scared her a little. His eyes glittered in the low light of the swooping sitting room. She found that she had slumped against the sofa and now it had her in its soft embrace. 
“Because you helped me before,” she said. 
“I see,” the wizard said. “So you assumed that because I’d been generous—very, very generous—to you once before that I’d be generous again? You repay my favor with a request for another one? 
“Then there is something wrong!” the young man exclaimed. 
He was silent for a long time, staring at the ground, and Lexy waited, with a fast beating heart, for some word that would enlighten her. At last he looked up. 
“I’ve got to trust you,” he said simply. “Caroline meant to tell you, anyhow. You see”—he paused—“I’m Charles Houseman, the man she’s going to marry.” 
“Oh!” cried Lexy. 
“Now you’ll tell me, won’t you?” 
She stared and stared at him, filled with amazement and pity. Such a nice-looking, straightforward, manly sort of fellow—and such a look of pain and bewilderment in his blue eyes! 
“But—did she say she would marry you?” 
“Of course she did! She—look here! You don’t know what I’ve been through. It was I who telephoned last night. I—” 
“But why did you? Oh, please tell me! I am Caroline’s friend—truly her friend. I want to understand!” 
“All right!” he said. “I telephoned because I was waiting for her, and she didn’t come.” 
“Waiting for—Caroline?” 
“We had arranged to get married last night. She was to meet me, but she didn’t come,” he said, a little unsteadily. “Perhaps she just changed her mind. Perhaps she doesn’t want to see me any more. If that’s the case, I’ll trust you not to mention anything about me—to any one. You see now, don’t you, that I—I had to know?” 
“And you knew about Dawna,” finished Arthur. “Which, actually something important.” 
“But I wouldn’t have suspected her at all if it weren’t for you,” I said to Rio. “And I think that’s the second mistake they’ve made—Dawna going after Rio full-tilt, herself, because she put an enormous amount of time and resources into it, and she made a bloody mess of it. Not only did she not take out Rio as a threat, but we got out with way more information about her and Pithica than anyone’s ever had on them.” 
“And you think you can use this information,” said Rio. 
“It’s numbers,” I said, waving a hand. “I absolutely think I can. With a little help.” I picked up Arthur’s phone. 
Checker answered on the third ring. “Cas?” he said. The pause before he spoke was long enough for me to tell he really didn’t want to talk to Arthur yet. 
“Yeah,” I said. “I figured out the numbers. It’s Pithica’s financial empire.” 
He let out a low whistle. “You’re kidding.” 
Finally someone who understood what this meant. “Nope.” 
She realized, too, that even the most strictly brought up jeune fille needed some sort of youthful society, and in Lexy she had found pretty well what she wanted—a well mannered, well bred young woman of unimpeachable honesty. So she had permitted Lexy and Caroline to go shopping alone, and sometimes to a matinée or to a tea room. She asked them shrewd questions when they came home, and their answers satisfied her perfectly. They had never even spoken to a man! 
“And yet,” thought Miss Moran, “somehow Caroline has been carrying on with some one, without even me finding out! I didn’t know she had it in her!” 
She was half asleep when the sound of Mrs. Enderby’s voice in the hall brought her to her feet. It was a penetrating voice, with a trace of foreign accent, and it was not a voice that Lexy loved. She went out of the library into the hall. 
“Did you enjoy—” she began politely, and then stopped short. “But where’s Caroline?” she cried. 
“Caroline? But at home, of course,” answered Mrs. Enderby. 
“I didn’t make it,” he said. “I typed in the source and tweaked it and installed it, but I didn’t make it. I don’t know who did. It’s from a phone-book.” Arturo grunted. The phone-books—fat books filled with illegal software code left anonymously in pay phones, toilets and other semi-private places—turned up all over the place. Social Harmony said that the phone-books had to be written by non-three-laws brains in Eurasia, no person could come up with ideas that weird. 
“I don’t care if you made it. I don’t even care right this moment that you ran it. What I care about is where my daughter went, and with whom.” 
“I don’t know! She didn’t tell me! Geez, I hardly know her. She’s 12, you know? I don’t exactly hang out with her.” 
“There’s no visual record of her on the mall cameras, but we know she entered the mall—and the robot I had tailing you couldn’t see you either.” 
“Let me explain,” the kid said, squirming. “Here.” He tugged his hoodie off, revealing a black t-shirt with a picture of a kind of obscene, Japanese-looking robot-woman on it. “Little infra-red organic LEDs, super-bright, low power-draw.” He offered the hoodie to Arturo, who felt the stiff fabric. “The charged-couple-device cameras in the robots and the closed-circuit systems are super-sensitive to infra-red so that they can get good detail in dim light. The infra-red OLEDs blind them so all they get is blobs, and half the time even that gets error-corrected out, so you’re basically invisible.” 
“And if I catch them spying on you or me or sniffing around after my business,” I added to Halliday, “or if they decide you’re a liability because of what you know...” 
“We keep a copy,” said Arthur. 
Smart. It was a move that had worked for us before—make sure there was a way for the information to get out if someone felt it was more expedient to kill us than to worry about letting us live while we had the potential for spilling the knowledge. 
“And I want to be able to speak freely where we do this,” I said. “No spying; I mean it. I’ll bring the tech to check.” 
“Don’t think that’s unreasonable,” said Arthur. “Anything else important?” 
Halliday handed him the list. “I believe we’ve covered it.” 
The only thing the Feds refused was us hanging onto a copy of the proof—they claimed they didn’t trust us to keep it secure. I pointed out that, considering it was still missing and uncontained, Halliday was going to be helping them propagate security overhauls everywhere anyway. They pointed out in turn that the security overhaul meant we wouldn’t be a threat to them and we therefore had no need for leverage. 
"Well, you can start making up for that right now by springing me the hell out of here." So, somebody had put him up to it, just like I'd thought all along. But who? "I want you to look up the number for the American embassy. And tell me the name of somebody there who—" 
"Jesus, you truly don't get the picture, do you?" He paused for another early-morning reefer hack. 
"I 'get' that you—" 
"Missy, it was a high official at that very establishment 'suggested' I fly you up there. Why the hell else would I do it, for chrissake? You know I'm not a citizen of this fun house. Said party noted that if I didn't, he could make a few phone calls about my residency status, my pilot's license . . . Let's just say it was an offer I didn't see fit to take issue with." 
"Oh, my God." I felt like a knife had just plunged into my back. "Was his name Barry Morton? Please tell me." 
"Taking the Fifth on that one," he said coughing again. "But you've got primal instincts." 
I heard a noise outside and sank lower in the chair. What was I going to do now? 
The deal with my parents was that I'd eat breakfast with them every morning and talk about the projects I was doing. They liked that I was reading Kerouac. It had been a favorite book of both of theirs and it turned out there was already a copy on the bookcase in my parents' room. My dad brought it down and I flipped through it. There were passages marked up with pen, dog-eared pages, notes in the margin. My dad had really loved this book. 
It made me remember a better time, when my Dad and I had been able to talk for five minutes without shouting at each other about terrorism, and we had a great breakfast talking about the way that the novel was plotted, all the crazy adventures. 
But the next morning at breakfast they were both glued to the radio. 
"Abuses of Authority -- it's the latest craze on San Francisco's notorious Xnet, and it's captured the world's attention. Called A-oh-A, the movement is composed of 'Little Brothers' who watch back against the Department of Homeland Security's anti-terrorism measures, documenting the failures and excesses. The rallying cry is a popular viral video clip of a General Claude Geist, a retired three-star general, being tackled by DHS officers on the sidewalk in front of City Hall. Geist hasn't made a statement on the incident, but commentary from young people who are upset with their own treatment has been fast and furious. 
I found myself becoming annoyed. Which was unheard of—I couldn’t remember ever having gotten annoyed at Rio. Why was he insisting on being so infuriating over this Dawna thing? “Oh, so you have my deductive process axiomitized and memorized, do you?” I said. 
“You will not acknowledge her deception as possible?” 
“No!” 
He sat back in his chair. “Odd.” 
I didn’t like the judgment I heard in that word. “What’s that supposed to mean?” 
“Ordinarily, you acknowledge every possibility. It is part of what makes you good at what you do,” Rio said evenly, and if I hadn’t been feeling so hostile toward him at the moment, I might have been flattered by that. “Logic, yes? It’s how you’re wired.” 
“How I’m wired?” 
“I do not mean it as an insult.” 
“Well, maybe I’m taking it as one!” I snapped. “I’m allowed to have a gut instinct about people, you know!” 
“Cas, you detest reliance on gut instinct.” 
“And maybe you don’t know everything about how I work!” My voice was rising, a biting fury building in me by the second. “It’s such a bad thing not to suspect an innocent woman? Oh, right, I forgot— you wouldn’t know anything about valuing other human beings—” 
"Question," he said, walking up to her. She liked it brusque. No nonsense. 
She batted her handball against the court wall three more times, making long dives for it, sweaty grey hair whipping back and forth, body arcing in graceful flows. Then she caught the ball and tossed it into the basket by his feet. "Lawrence, huh? All right, surprise me." 
"It's this," he said, and tossed the file at her pan. She caught it with the same fluid gesture and her computer gave it to her on the handball court wall, which was the closest display for which she controlled the lockfile. She peered at the data, spinning the graph this way and that, peering intently. 
She pulled up some of her own instruments and replayed the bitstream, recalling the logfiles from many network taps from the moment at which the file grew by the anomalous 68 bytes. 
"You think it's an Anomaly, don't you?" She had a fine blond mustache that was beaded with sweat, but her breathing had slowed to normal and her hands were steady and sure as she gestured at the wall. 
"The one who died. That's why you're doing this. You want to make up for him --" 
She couldn't believe he'd said it. Taken such a cheap shot. "I'm surprised you didn't save that one for television, Damian. Jesus. No, I'm doing this because it's right . In case you haven't noticed, your self-healing, uncorruptible network is down . People are suffering. The economy is tanking. The death toll is mounting. You won't even bend one inch , one tenth of an inch , because you're worried about losing your job." 
"Trish," he said, "I'm sorry, I didn't mean --" 
Her office door opened and there stood her embedded journalist. "I just got in from Manhattan," he said. "Can I set up in that corner there again?" 
"Be my guest," she said, grateful for the distraction. Damian looked at her, forehead scrunched, and then he left. 
"It's a good thing you're not over him," the lawyer said, pouring her another victory whisky. The bill had passed the House with only one opposing and two abstentions, and had squeaked through the Senate by five seats, at five minutes to midnight on the eighth day of the Downtime. They were halfway to the bar (where the office manager had been feeding twenties to the bartender to stay open) when the grid came back up, crawls springing to life on every surface and cars suddenly zipping forward in the characteristic high-speed ballet of efficiently routed traffic. They'd laughed themselves stupid all the way to the bar and after a brief but intense negotiation between the lawyer and the barman, he'd produced a bottle of Irish that was nearly half as good as the stuff Trish kept at home. 
I don't remember much of what happened next. I basically went on autopilot. It's as though I dropped into a trance, totally focused. I packed my passport, a good business suit, the tailored blue one, and also a set of mix-and-match sepa­rates, easy to roll and cram in. Finally a couple of pairs of good (clean) jeans, a few toiletries, and then, thinking ahead, I also threw in my yellow plastic flashlight. I almost always over pack, but not this time. 
Oh, and one other thing. For airplane reading I grabbed a Lonely Planet guide to Central America that Steve had left behind—I guess he figured he was at the stage of life to start writing them, not reading them—that turned out to be very helpful, particularly the map of Guatemala City and the northern Peten rain forest. I then collapsed and—images of Sarah's emaciated face haunting my consciousness—caught a couple of hours' sleep. 
The next thing I knew, it was 9:20 A.M. and I was settling into window seat 29F on American Airlines Flight 377—next to a two-hundred-pound executive busy ripping articles out of the business section of El Diario —headed for Guatemala City. 
"Sounds pretty good to me," Leon said. 
"Oh sure," she said. "Sure. A world of eager consumers who know the cost of everything and the value of nothing. Why did evolution endow us with such pathological innumeracy? What's the survival advantage in being led around by the nose by whichever witch-doctor can come up with the best scare-story?" 
"He said that entrepreneurial things -- parenthood, businesses..." 
"Any kind of risk-taking. Sports. No one swings for the stands when he knows that the odds are so much better on a bunt." 
"And Viktor wanted this?" 
She peered at him. "A world of people who understand risk are nearly as easy to lead around by the nose as a world of people who are incapable of understanding risk. The big difference is that the competition is at a massive disadvantage in the latter case, not being as highly evolved as the home team." 
He looked at her, really looked at her for the first time. Saw that she was the face of a monster, the voice of a god. The hand of a massive, unknowable machine that was vying to change the world, remake it to suit its needs. A machine that was good at it . 
"What—?" 
"Hey, how're you doing? Don't be alarmed. He's taking great care of you." 
"What. . . where am I?" I lifted my head off the pillow and tried to look around. I half expected Steve to be there, but of course he wasn't. 
"You're here. At Quetzal Manor." She reached and did something and the music slowly faded away. "Don't worry. You'll be fine. I think the doctor was trying to release your Chi, and when he did it was too strong for you." 
"What day is it?" I felt completely disoriented my bear­ings gone. 
"Sunday. It's Sunday morning." She reached and touched my brow as though giving me a blessing. Like, it's okay, really. 
At that moment, Alex Goddard strolled in, dressed again in white. 
Just as in the dream, I thought. 
"So, how's the patient?" He walked over—eyes benign and caring—and lifted my wrist, absently taking my pulse while he inserted a digital thermometer in my ear. For a flash­back moment he merged into, then emerged from, my dream. "You're looking fine. I have to say, though, you had quite a time yesterday." 
"That galvanized the Free Speech Movement. That was the start of the hippies, but it was also where more radical student movements came from. Black power groups like the Black Panthers -- and later gay rights groups like the Pink Panthers, too. Radical women's groups, even 'lesbian separatists' who wanted to abolish men altogether! And the Yippies. Anyone ever hear of the Yippies?" 
"Didn't they levitate the Pentagon?" I said. I'd once seen a documentary about this. 
She laughed. "I forgot about that, but yes, that was them! Yippies were like very political hippies, but they weren't serious the way we think of politics these days. They were very playful. Pranksters. They threw money into the New York Stock Exchange. They circled the Pentagon with hundreds of protestors and said a magic spell that was supposed to levitate it. They invented a fictional kind of LSD that you could spray onto people with squirt-guns and shot each other with it and pretended to be stoned. They were funny and they made great TV -- one Yippie, a clown called Wavy Gravy, used to get hundreds of protestors to dress up like Santa Claus so that the cameras would show police officers arresting and dragging away Santa on the news that night -- and they mobilized a lot of people. 
He touched something at his belt and the shackles behind me let go, my arms dropping suddenly behind me. It was like he was wearing Batman's utility belt -- wireless remotes for shackles! I guessed it made sense, though: you wouldn't want to lean over your prisoners with all that deadly hardware at their eye-level -- they might grab your gun with their teeth and pull the trigger with their tongues or something. 
My hands were still lashed together behind me by the plastic strapping, and now that I wasn't supported by the shackles, I found that my legs had turned into lumps of cork while I was stuck in one position. Long story short, I basically fell onto my face and kicked my legs weakly as they went pins-and-needles, trying to get them under me so I could rock up to my feet. 
The guy jerked me to my feet and I clown-walked to the very back of the truck, to a little boxed-in porta-john there. I tried to spot Darryl on the way back, but he could have been any of the five or six slumped people. Or none of them. 
"She had a second stroke yesterday morning jest when she was helpin' Jane lay out her things to come here to-day. Jane said you wan't to know anything about it till the exercises was all over, and we promised to keep it secret till then." 
"I will go right home with you, aunt Sarah. I must just run to tell Miss Maxwell, for after I had packed up to-morrow I was going to Brunswick with her. Poor aunt Miranda! And I have been so gay and happy all day, except that I was longing for mother and aunt Jane." 
"There ain't no harm in bein' gay, lovey; that's what Jane wanted you to be. And Miranda's got her speech back, for your aunt has just sent a letter sayin' she's better; and I'm goin' to set up to-night, so you can stay here and have a good sleep, and get your things together comfortably to-morrow." 
"I'll pack your trunk for you, Becky dear, and attend to all our room things," said Emma Jane, who had come towards the group and heard the sorrowful news from the brick house. 
They moved into one of the quiet side pews, where Hannah and her husband and John joined them. From time to time some straggling acquaintance or old schoolmate would come up to congratulate Rebecca and ask why she had hidden herself in a corner. Then some member of the class would call to her excitedly, reminding her not to be late at the picnic luncheon, or begging her to be early at the class party in the evening. All this had an air of unreality to Rebecca. In the midst of the happy excitement of the last two days, when "blushing honors" had been falling thick upon her, and behind the delicious exaltation of the morning, had been the feeling that the condition was a transient one, and that the burden, the struggle, the anxiety, would soon loom again on the horizon. She longed to steal away into the woods with dear old John, grown so manly and handsome, and get some comfort from him. 
By that time Arthur had the shotgun up on my left. “Get out of here!” he shouted. 
The gang scattered. 
I started to move forward, but Arthur grabbed my arm, hard. “The Air Force base,” he said. “We ain’t killing anyone. Looters who try and attack us, that’s one thing, but we ain’t killing men and women just doing their jobs.” 
His grip was powerful enough to leave a bruise, and his stance said he would stand his ground unless I shot him, too. Part of my brain noted this as impressive, considering that at this point, he had to know how pitifully his skills stacked up against mine—not to mention I was still holding a pistol with which I’d just shot three people, and also had a G36 assault rifle slung over my shoulder. 
I searched his face. He’d go down fighting for this. “Okay,” I said. 
His fingers tightened, the muscles around his eyes pinching. “Promise me.” 
“I said okay!” Behind me, flames rose in the store in a whoosh, punching up through the second floor, the heat scorching my exposed skin. “I promise, all right? Come on!” 
“It’s all online.” 
“I’m sure that’s where you do all of your homework. Much eas- ier than actual research, I’m told. Well, it was a waste of your time. 
I’m retired.” She started to close the door. It got stuck on the piles of mail. 
“The FBI picked Wilson up this morning,” I said, fast and loud. “Along with a bunch of other people, one of whom is proba- bly an FBI informant. They’re accused of being terrorists, but they aren’t.” 
She rolled her eyes. I guess she thought that’s what happens to stupid people. I was getting fed up with her attitude. 
“I think the informant set them up. That’s what they do. They find people naive enough to talk about how wrong everything is and then they say, ‘yeah, we should do something about it,’ so they all say ‘yeah, totally,’ and then the guy says ‘hey, I know some- one who could get us some explosives, what do you think?’ and pretty soon they’re in jail and it would never have happened with- out some FBI guy talking them into it.” 
“Your point?” 
“No,” said Rio. 
“I could have. I had plenty of opportunities around Dawna—” 
“Do not fault yourself, Cas. She can make herself safe from anybody.” 
Oh. Right. I never would have considered attacking Dawna as an option because she had made sure I didn’t think of it. I wondered if I’d had other escape options, too. It was hard to think back; I’d been so certain at the time. 
Rio pulled up the chair that Arthur usually occupied. “You said before that she talked to you. Will you tell me what about?” 
Well. At least she hadn’t mind-zapped me during that part. I kind of wished she had—it would make my doubts easier to swallow. “She talked about Pithica,” I admitted softly. “How it’s all because they want to make people’s lives better. How they want to make the world all peaceful and wonderful for everyone.” 
“Did you believe her?” 
I picked at the blanket across my knees. “I’m not sure.” 
“I see,” he said. 
“She didn’t brainwash me,” I insisted. “It wasn’t like that. I remember everything. She just...she had a lot of really logical arguments.” 
"I plan to." Why did she think I'd even be offered it? 
As we hurried along, two women abruptly appeared on a porch, bowed, and greeted us. Marcelina waved back, then went over and spoke earnestly with them for a moment. Fi­nally she turned and motioned for me. 
"They've invited you in." 
Something about the easy way it all just "happened" felt as though they'd been expecting me. Had Marcelina's trip down to the village been part of a setup, wittingly or unwit­tingly? 
"I told them we could only stay for a minute," she went on. I sensed she was reluctant, but felt we had no choice. 
The last thing I wanted to do was this. 
"Marcelina, can't you tell them we'll come back later?" 
"It's . . . it's important." She was beckoning for me. "Please." 
Well, I thought, this could give me the time I need, the personal moment, to get through to her. Even after I locate Sarah, spiriting her out isn't going to be simple. I've got to make Marcelina understand what's really going on, then get her to help us. 
She was not in the least angry now, or hurt; only she wanted to get away, by herself, to think this out. 
“Good-by?” repeated Mrs. Enderby, with a smile. “You think, then, never to see me again?” 
“No,” said Lexy. “I mean to see you again—when I have something to tell you; but just now I want to go back and pack up my things.” 
“And leave my house?” 
“Yes.” 
They were both silent for a moment. Then, to Lexy’s amazement, Mrs. Enderby laid a hand gently on the girl’s shoulder. 
“My child,” she said, “you think I am a very hard woman. Perhaps it is so; but, like you, I do what seems to me the right. Certainly it is better now that you should leave us; but not like this. You must have your lunch here, then you must return to the house and sleep there, all in the usual way. To-morrow you shall go.” She paused a moment. “You shall go, if you are still determined that you will not keep faith with me.” 
It was not a very difficult matter to touch Lexy’s heart. Whatever resentment she may have felt against Mrs. Enderby vanished now, lost in a sincere pity and respect; but she was firm in her purpose. 
“Your objectives,” I repeated. “Which are?” 
She raised her eyebrows. “World peace. Didn’t Courtney speak to you?” 
“Yeah,” I said slowly. “She did mention that.” 
“Well?” She opened her hands, inviting. “What do you think?” 
“‘Brainwash’ is such an ugly word, Ms. Russell. Come, you’re an intelligent person. Why would I waste effort forcing you into something you will so easily see the logic of yourself? All I want is to explain what we do here. Once you understand, I believe you’ll want to join us voluntarily.” 
“You locked us up,” I pointed out. 
“See it from my perspective,” she said reasonably. “You and Mr. Tresting have been operating on the assumption that we’re some sort of monstrous conspiracy, when nothing could be further from the truth. I admit you even started causing some trouble for us. I wanted the chance to explain to you what we’re truly about.” 
“And if I don’t agree to drink the Kool-Aid, then are you going to let us go?” 
“Well, it hardly makes sense to do that if you’re going to work against us, does it? Not when our efforts are bettering so many, many lives.” She spoke simply, articulately, earnestly. “Ms. Russell, we lift countless people out of poverty and starvation every day. We’re bringing down violent crime globally, effecting drastic change in cities that have never known any other reality. We’ve headed off nuclear crises and tamed dangerous insurgent groups into nothing, made brutal warlords impotent or helped raise up revolutions against them. Millions of people suffer less every day because of what we do—real, tangible people who can work and love and live their lives now—because of us.” 
She hadn’t been the sweets-shop in a month. When she thought about sweets, it made her think of the little girls in the sweatshop. Sweatshop, sweetshop. The sweets shop man sold his wares close to the school because little girls who didn’t know better would be tempted by them. No one forced them, but they were kids and grownups were supposed to look out for kids. 
Her da beamed at her. “I’ve lost three pounds myself,” he said, holding his tum. “I’ve been trying...  
“I know, Da,” she said. It embarrassed her to discuss it with him. 
The kids in the sweatshops were being exploited by grownups, too. It was why their situation was so impossible: the adults who were supposed to be taking care of them were exploiting them. 
“Well, I just wanted to say that I’m proud of you. We both are, your Mum and me. And I wanted to let you know that I’ll be moving your PC back into your room tomorrow. You’ve earned it.” 
Anda blushed pink. She hadn’t really expected this. Her fingers twitched over a phantom game-controller. 
“You’re going to go for a reccy? Get more fuel? We can charter a working group for it—great idea.” 
Rosenbaum shook his head sadly. “We’re going to go find our families. Whatever is out there has burned itself out. Or it hasn’t. Either way, there’s no future in here.” 
“What about network maintenance?” Felix said, though he knew the answers. “Who’ll keep the routers up?” 
“We’ll give you the root passwords to everything,” Popovich said. His hands were shaking and his eyes were bleary. Like many of the smokers stuck in the data-center....  days earlier, too. The smokers had it rough. 
“And I’ll just stay here and keep everything online?” 
“You and anyone else who cares anymore.” 
Felix knew that he’d squandered his opportunity. The election had seemed noble and brave, but in hindsight all it had been was an excuse for infighting when they should have been figuring out what to do next. The problem was that there was nothing to do next. 
“I can’t make you stay,” he said. 
“Yeah, you can’t.” Popovich turned on his heel and walked out. Rosenbaum watched him go, then he gripped Felix’s shoulder and squeezed it. 
I stared at the screen. Jesus. They wanted to interview me about "my group"? 
> Um thanks no. I'm all about privacy. And it's not "my group." But thanks for doing the story! 
A minute later, another email. 
> We can mask you and ensure your anonymity. You know that the Department of Homeland Security will be happy to provide their own spokesperson. I'm interested in getting your side. 
I filed the email. He was right, but I'd be crazy to do this. For all I knew, he was the DHS. 
I picked up more Kerouac. Another email came in. Same request, different news-agency: KQED wanted to meet me and record a radio interview. A station in Brazil. The Australian Broadcasting Corporation. All day, the press requests came in. All day, I politely turned them down. 
I didn't get much Kerouac read that day. 
"Hold a press-conference," is what Ange said, as we sat in the cafe near her place that evening. I wasn't keen on going out to her school anymore, getting stuck on a bus with Van again. 
"What? Are you crazy?" 
His ex-wife left him two months after Ada was born. The divorce had been uncontested, though he’d dutifully posted a humiliating notice in the papers about it so that it would be completely legal. The court awarded him full custody and control of the marital assets, and then a tribunal tried her in absentia for treason and found her guilty, sentencing her to death. 
Practically speaking, though, defectors who came back to UNATS were more frequently whisked away to the bowels of the Social Harmony intelligence offices than they were executed on television. Televised executions were usually reserved for cannon-fodder who’d had the good sense to run away from a charging Eurasian line in one of the many theaters of war. 
Ada stopped asking about her mother when she was six or seven, though Arturo tried to be upfront when she asked. Even his mom—who winced whenever anyone mentioned her name (her name, it was Natalie, but Arturo hadn’t thought of it in years—months—weeks) was willing to bring Ada up onto her lap and tell her the few grudging good qualities she could dredge up about her mother. 
He spoke lightly, for he thought her trouble was something connected with affairs at Sunnybrook, and that he could soon bring the smiles by telling her that the farm was sold and that her mother was to receive a handsome price in return. He meant to remind her, too, that though she must leave the home of her youth, it was too remote a place to be a proper dwelling either for herself or for her lonely mother and the three younger children. He could hear her say as plainly as if it were yesterday, "I don't think one ever forgets the spot where one lived as a child." He could see the quaint little figure sitting on the piazza at North Riverboro and watch it disappear in the lilac bushes when he gave the memorable order for three hundred cakes of Rose-Red and Snow-White soap. 
A word or two soon told him that her grief was of another sort, and her mood was so absent, so sensitive and tearful, that he could only assure her of his sympathy and beg that he might come soon to the brick house to see with his own eyes how she was faring. 
“So?” 
“Seem weird to you? Kidnappers or killers, and they take him a toothbrush?” 
I mulled it over. It did seem weird. 
“My God,” said Arthur suddenly. He pushed back out of the washroom, dashed to the front door, and flung it open to dive out onto the porch, his head swiveling from side to side as if he were trying to see in all directions at once. 
I followed him out. “What is it?” 
“Blue Nissan. You see a blue Nissan anywhere?” 
I got what he meant immediately. This was Los Angeles, of course Checker owned a car—but the driveway was vacant, and the garage had been converted into his hacker cave. So where was it? 
I peered through the sheeting rain into the street. Parking wasn’t bad in this neighborhood, and cars were sparse. I didn’t see a blue Nissan. 
“He got away,” I breathed. Maybe. 
Arthur pounded a rain-slicked fist against one of the porch’s pillars. Then he sank onto the porch swing and rested his head in his hands. 
I had a thought. “Hey. Where have you been leaving him your messages?” 
Trover stayed over at the creche some nights. A lot of the little ones did. Who had the strength to carry a little boy up the stairs at the end of a day’s digging, at the end of three days’ hard fighting in the woods? 
The bread-rations were handed out in the spot where the cine once stood. She couldn’t really remember what it had been like, though she remembered Reeta, the things Reeta had said that had made her leave the shelter, which had probably saved her life. Poor Reeta. Little bitch. 
She was so hungry, and the line moved slowly. She had her chit from the boy from the city who oversaw the ditch digging in her part of the ditches. He was only a little older than her but he couldn’t dig because his hands had been mutilated when a bomb went off near him. He kept them shoved in his pockets, but she’d seen them and they looked like the knucklebreakers had given them a good seeing-to. Every finger pointed a different direction, except for the ones that were missing altogether. There was also something wrong with him that made him sometimes stop talking in the middle of a sentence and sit down for a moment with his head tilted back. 
"Yes, aunt Miranda." 
"It's always 'yes' with you, and 'yes' with Jane," groaned Miranda, trying to move her stiffened body; "but all the time I lay here knowin' there's things done the way I don't like 'em." 
There was a long pause, during which Rebecca sat down by the bedside and timidly touched her aunt's hand, her heart swelling with tender pity at the gaunt face and closed eyes. 
"I was dreadful ashamed to have you graduate in cheesecloth, Rebecca, but I couldn't help it no-how. You'll hear the reason some time, and know I tried to make it up to ye. I'm afraid you was a laughin'-stock!" 
"No," Rebecca answered. "Ever so many people said our dresses were the very prettiest; they looked like soft lace. You're not to be anxious about anything. Here I am all grown up and graduated,—number three in a class of twenty-two, aunt Miranda,—and good positions offered me already. Look at me, big and strong and young, all ready to go into the world and show what you and aunt Jane have done for me. If you want me near, I'll take the Edgewood school, so that I can be here nights and Sundays to help; and if you get better, then I'll go to Augusta,—for that's a hundred dollars more, with music lessons and other things beside." 
“In the East Sixties, near the park,” she said. “It wasn’t my own home, though—I was a companion,” she added. 
She always liked people to know that. She was far from being cynical, but she was aware that this information made a difference—to some people. 
She was astonished to see the difference it made in Dr. Quelton. He raised his black, weary eyes to her face and stared at her with unmistakable insolence. 
“Ah!” he said. “I see! I thought so!” 
There was a moment’s silence. 
“And you’ve come to Wyngate to—er—to write?” he went on. “Very interesting—very!” 
Lexy felt her cheeks grow hot. She wished with all her heart that she had not involved herself in that stupid falsehood. It humiliated her so much that she couldn’t answer Dr. Quelton with her usual spirit. He noticed her confusion—no doubt about that. 
“Poetry, perhaps?” he suggested. 
“No!” said Lexy vehemently. “Not poetry!” 
He leaned forward a little, looking directly into her face. 
“Perhaps,” he said, “you write detective stories?” 
Well met, brother. I think that we shall meet again. 
But it is a good idea to stop there, to not follow that thread to its conclusion. Better not to dwell on other things, rumors, whispers from Wadi Wadi that reached him only as desiccated corpses of truth, sanitized of their vibrancy because he received them at a dozen degrees of separation. 
Staff Sergeant So-and-so from F Company reporting that a night patrol did not return as scheduled, says he dispatched a recon team to locate them after several hours. Recon team walks the grid and discovers a bundle of corpses stashed in a windblown arroyo. Corpses with a distinctly chewed look to them. 
Forward listening posts gone silent, the troops deserted— always at night. 
Filtered...  down their arms and vanishing into the remote mountain wilderness, leaving cryptic messages that they would only fight that which could be killed. METOC sends investigators to look into the possibility of a newly formed, ultra secret branch of Russoturk special forces wreaking havoc on local support.  New Mes became a very creepy place in the months before he shipped off to CIU, and on moonless nights out in the field, at odd hours when he was supposed to be setting up ambushments for tomorrow's Russoturk convoys, Ray would think about Jack Holcomb and wonder what he made of all the bizarre rumors. Was he running around Washington trying to convince senators and cabinet members to beware the shed? Did he sometimes yearn for moonless nights, when there wasn't the chance that he would see strange shadows against the argent limned sky? 
didn’t have a car, so nobody had to worry about taking his keys away from him. He climbed into the back seat of Ian’s rental. By the time I got in, he was stretched out across the backseat, his knees bent to fit, one arm dangling down to the floor, doing a great dead-guy imitation until he started to snore. 
“He’s bunking with me,” Ian said, glancing into the back seat. 
“He hitched a ride up from Chicago with a truck driver. Didn’t have any place to stay, just counted on it that things would work out. Which usually they do for him.” 
“You met him before?” 
“I’ve known him since he was twelve. He took a class from me once, when he was actually younger than you, though he dropped out before the semester was over. He’s brilliant, but he doesn’t have much interest in following rules or filling out forms, and he thinks money is stupid. That makes it pretty impossible to com- plete a college degree the way we do things, but he learns whatever he finds interesting enough to figure out and picks up enough freelance work to put together a living. He travels constantly and has friends everywhere, even though he can be kind of a jerk sometimes.” 
Except, he's not really even hispanic, either, not in the classical, racial, cultural sense. His great-great-grandfather was hispanic, actually lived in a Mexicali barrio. But his great-great-grandmother was Swiss- Austrian. They both had spoken pure, unadulterated American from birth. Worked in American cities, 
held American jobs, and after the Annexation Act, paid American taxes in return for American citizenship. 
All Rodriguez had left of his "heritage" was a touch of the looks (which was good) and the name (which was frequently a liability). He was about as close to being Aztec as he was to being authentically hispanic. 
Him, he grew up in the suburbs outside Baton Rouge where his father was a chipset design engineer, then moved to Chicago when he was twelve, which excoriated anything like an accent he might have developed.  He prefers burgers to tortilla anything. He likes pale, bookish girls with long, light colored hair. Girls cut from his mother's mold, maybe not so surprisingly. 
Yeah. 
“I would have killed you right off—I usually kill people who double-cross me. But you still have information I want.” Clack, clack, clack. 
Halliday’s proof. Right. 
“I’ll take great pleasure in breaking you.” He giggled like a hyena. “But I confess you’re not my top priority right now. You’ll have to wait. I just wanted to say hi.” 
Oh. Oh, shit. 
Martinez. He had Martinez, too. Of course he did—we hadn’t gotten out; he’d taken us both. 
That hadn’t been part of the plan. She was supposed to get away before he caught me. 
She was supposed to get away. 
This was my fault. I had to protect her. I pushed my neurons to move a finger with no success. The helplessness sandbagged me. I had to be able to do—to do something— I managed to make a sound in my throat, something like a sick rhinoceros. 
“Oh? You have something to say?” 
Don’t hurt her. Oh, God. 
“Mathematics should be shared, don’t you agree?” the Lancer said carelessly. “Oh, I forgot. You’re only in this for the money. Playing both ends against the middle. You don’t care.” The meditation balls stopped, and he was suddenly a lot closer, half-crouching, half-sitting so his face was near mine. “People like you are the scum of humanity. You don’t care about the field, about what humanity can discover. You’re only in it for your payday. Perelman would weep.” 
"You will show him out, Emma?" 
"Yes, Amah." 
Having been dismissed, they duck out into the hall, where they pass the children groaning their way off to bed, herded by tutors. John Robert and two or three of the others wave at Ray, wish him goodnight. None of them speak to Emma. 
At the door, he says, "You weren't kidding, were you? About the kids." 
"I told you. I never know what to do with them. And I think they're afraid of me. " 
"Or you're afraid of them." 
"Did you know that the younger ones, their noses run all the time."  "It's a good thing you're cute when you panic, otherwise they would more than likely eat you alive. They're barbarians." 
He's trying to make her laugh, but she isn't very interested. She is quite serious about her lack of domestic skill. 
"I'm just teasing you," he says. "As long as you can cook, I don't care what you think about children." 
"I can't cook, Ray." 
"Yikes. It's a good thing you're independently wealthy, then. You'd have a hard time finding a husband with that resume." He winks; she smiles. She's more fun to play with than a bunch of uber-kids anyway, even if she doesn't like Captain Shadow. "Maybe you can run the mining operation and Frederick can run the Trust. That way each of you get a piece of the family business." 
“Here it comes,” she said, rolling her eyes again. 
“Find my brother a good lawyer.” 
I thought for a moment she would refuse. But instead, she said “First, I’m going to drink my tea before it gets cold. Then - no promises, but I’ll make some calls.” 
L uckily, I had everything I needed on a jump drive and some- one had installed a board with a USB port in her ancient computer, but installation was crazy slow. At some point she came in. “Would you like a sandwich or something?” 
“No, that’s okay.” I was under the desk trying to blow gunk out of the fan, crawling around with the giant dust bunnies that lived down there. 
“It’s getting quite late. Won’t your parents wonder where you are?” 
“I live with my aunt, and she doesn’t get off work until ten tonight. How’s it going with the lawyer?” 
“I’m working on it.” 
“Let’s have a race and see who gets done first.” 
“Deal.” 
When I finally got it up and running, I went out to the kitchen, 
where she was jotting notes on a big yellow pad, holding a tele- phone receiver pressed to her ear. I waited as the pen flowed across the paper. She had filled the page with orderly lines. Her handwriting was old-fashioned, all the letters linked together in a flowing line of blue ink, threads of words crossing the page, 
Well, that might be a useful favor to call in someday. But first I’d have to make it through the night. After walking into a Pithica trap. Goddamn Tresting. 
“And watch yourself, okay?” Checker added. 
I blinked. I hadn’t expected him to be concerned for me, too. I doubted he would miss me if something happened, but still, it was...nice of him. 
“Oh, don’t be stupid,” I said, a little too brusquely. “I’ll be fine.” 
I had to move fast. 
The location Checker had sent was out past Edwards Air Force Base, way out in the desert north of Mojave. Not much out there, I thought—nothing but rocks and dunes and endless sky. Good place for an ambush. 
The car with my Ruger and grenades under it had probably been driven off by now. I’d grab Checker’s help to track it down later, if I lived that long. I was still near enough to the Chinatown apartment to swing by; all I had left there were the crap guns from the day before and a knife, but that was better than nothing. I armed myself in less than five minutes, grabbed a few protein bars and a light jacket from the meager tangle of clothes I had there, and headed northeast in a stolen sports car. 
"Nothing at all, aunt Miranda." 
"Why, what's the matter with him? Gittin' lazy, ain't he? How 's John turnin' out?" 
"He's going to be the best of us all." 
"I hope you don't slight things in the kitchen because I ain't there. Do...  it upside down on the winder-sill?" 
"Yes, aunt Miranda." 
"It's always 'yes' with you, and 'yes' with Jane," groaned Miranda, trying to move her stiffened body; "but all the time I lay here knowin' there's things done the way I don't like 'em." 
There was a long pause, during which Rebecca sat down by the bedside and timidly touched her aunt's hand, her heart swelling with tender pity at the gaunt face and closed eyes. 
"I was dreadful ashamed to have you graduate in cheesecloth, Rebecca, but I couldn't help it no-how. You'll hear the reason some time, and know I tried to make it up to ye. I'm afraid you was a laughin'-stock!" 
"No," Rebecca answered. "Ever so many people said our dresses were the very prettiest; they looked like soft lace. You're not to be anxious about anything. Here I am all grown up and graduated,—number three in a class of twenty-two, aunt Miranda,—and good positions offered me already. Look at me, big and strong and young, all ready to go into the world and show what you and aunt Jane have done for me. If you want me near, I'll take the Edgewood school, so that I can be here nights and Sundays to help; and if you get better, then I'll go to Augusta,—for that's a hundred dollars more, with music lessons and other things beside." 
› half my crew split this morning. 
Queen Kong typed. Google was holding up pretty good anyway, of course. The load on the servers was a lot lighter than it had been since the days when Google fit on a bunch of hand-built PCs under a desk at Stanford. 
› we’re down to a quarter. 
Felix typed back. It was only a day since Popovich and Rosenbaum left, but the traffic on the newsgroups had fallen down to near zero. He and Van hadn’t had much time to play Republic of Cyberspace. They’d been too busy learning the systems that Popovich had turned over to them, the big, big routers that had went on acting as the major interchange for all the network backbones in Canada. 
Still, someone posted to the newsgroups every now and again, generally to say goodbye. The old flamewars about who would be PM, or whether they would shut down the network, or who took too much food—it was all gone. 
He reloaded the newsgroup. There was a typical message. 
› Runaway processes on Solaris. 
› Uh, hi. I’m just a lightweight MSCE but I’m the only one awake here and four of the DSLAMs just went down. Looks like there’s some custom accounting code that’s trying to figure out how much to bill our corporate customers and it’s spawned ten thousand threads and its eating all the swap. I just want to kill it but I can’t seem to do that. Is there some magic invocation I need to do to get this goddamned weenix box to kill this shit? I mean, it’s not as if any of our customers are ever going to pay us again. I’d ask the guy who wrote this code, but he’s pretty much dead as far as anyone can work out. 
“I don’t know,” said Lexy. “I suppose there’s a hotel, isn’t there?” 
“I say!” exclaimed the stranger. “Just what I’d been asking him, you know! He says there’s no hotel, but a very decent boarding house.” 
“Mis’ Royce’s,” added the driver. “She takes boarders.” 
“All right!” said Lexy cheerfully. “Miss Royce’s it is!” 
The stranger took her bag, and put it into the taxi. He would have assisted Lexy, but she was already inside; so he, too, got in. He closed the door, and off they went. 
“I am sorry, you know,” he said, “shoving ahead like that; but I didn’t notice—” 
“Well, please stop being sorry now,” requested Lexy firmly. 
“Right-o!” said he. “You won’t mind my saying you’ve been wonderfully nice about it?” 
“No, I don’t mind that a bit,” replied Lexy. “I like to be wonderfully nice.” 
There was a moment’s silence. 
“Will you allow me to introduce myself?” said the stranger. “Grey, you know—George Grey—Captain Grey, you know.” 
“Captain of a ship?” asked Lexy, with interest. She thought she would like to talk about ships. 
“We have almost all the ingredients for a first-class mystery story,” she said; “except the jewel—the famous ruby, or the great diamond.” 
“It’s an emerald, in this case,” said Captain Grey. 
Lexy straightened up in her chair, and stared at him. 
“You don’t really mean that?” she demanded. “There isn’t really an emerald?” He smiled. 
“I’m afraid it hasn’t much to do with the case—with either of the cases,” he said; “but there is an emerald—my sister’s.” 
“It didn’t come from India?” 
“It did, though!” 
“Don’t tell me it was stolen from a temple! That would be too good to be true!” 
“I’m sorry,” he said; “but as far as I know, it’s never been stolen at all, and its history for the last eighty years hasn’t been sinister. One of the old rajahs gave it to my grandfather—a reward of merit, you know. When my father married, it went to my mother. She never had any trouble with it. She never wore it, because she didn’t like it.” 
“Why?” 
“Well, you see, it’s an ostentatious sort of thing, and she wasn’t ostentatious.” He paused a moment. “My father told me, before he died, that he wanted Muriel to have it when she was eighteen; and so, three years ago, I sent it over to her.” 
“I know,” she said, the weight of the universe in those words. 
I was starting to get angry. “So...?” 
“What you’re saying is, is rational, but—I do trust Arthur that much, despite everything. Regardless of how illogical it seems. And I think...I think it’s sad you don’t. That’s all.” 
The only person I trusted to have my back to that level was Rio, and for good reason. “I don’t know what to tell you,” I said to Halliday stiffly. “You’re not talking about trust. You’re talking about faith.” 
“Maybe,” she said. “Is faith so bad?” 
“Faith by definition is unsubstantiated belief!” I tried to keep my voice low enough so anyone lurking outside wouldn’t hear me through the metal door, and I managed the decibel level, barely. The wound in my side wrenched. “For Christ’s sake, aren’t you a mathematician?” 
“Mathematics doesn’t preclude faith.” 
“Of course it does!” 
“Then I feel sorry for you,” she said. 
I closed my eyes and took a breath. I didn’t need Halliday’s okay to break us out. All I needed was a reason for our captors to burst in here without thinking about it. 
“Oh, Dad.” 
He let her get away. He felt a little nauseated, but his headache was receding. Something about the light and the street-sounds told him they weren’t in Toronto anymore, but he didn’t know what—he was soaked in Toronto’s subconscious cues and they were missing. 
“Ottawa,” Ada said. “Mom brought us here. It’s a safe-house. She’s taking us back to Beijing.” 
He swallowed. “The robot—” 
“That’s not Mom. She’s got a few of those, they can change their faces when they need to. Configurable matter. Mom has been here, mostly, and at the CAFTA embassy. I only met her for the first time two weeks ago, but she’s nice, Dad. I don’t want you to go all copper on her, OK? She’s my mom, OK?” 
He took her hand in his and patted it, then climbed to his feet again and headed for the door. The knob turned easily and he opened it a crack. 
There was a robot behind the door, humanoid and faceless. “Hello,” it said. “My name is Benny. I’m a Eurasian robot, and I am much stronger and faster than you, and I don’t obey the three laws. I’m also much smarter than you. I am pleased to host you here.” 
“It’s done. Luckily, I got to do my section with Nikko and not with Marcella or Dave, which would have sucked.” I babbled for a while about some of the art...  the assignment was while I finished cleaning the refriger- ator, chattering just to fill in the big hole left by all the things I wasn’t telling Monica about my day - the parts that were none of her business. 
“This Nikko - he sounds pretty neat.” 
“He is. But it turns out he has a girlfriend, so it’s not like . . . 
you know. He’s a good guy, though.” 
She sat in a chair and rubbed her foot, absently fingering a hole in her tights. “What?” I asked, because something in her face told me she had something to say but didn’t know how to start. 
“I had a long conversation with Peter and Lauren today.” 
Wilson’s dad and his wife. My adoptive parents. My stomach clenched. “What do they want?” 
“They were just checking to make sure you’re okay.” 
“What did they say about Wilson?” 
“They told me he has a good lawyer. They’re hopeful, but con- cerned. They thought . . .” she paused, picking her words care- fully. “They wondered if you might want to go home for a while.” 
“Okay,” he said. 
I took a sip of the cider. It was still too hot, but the scalding burn fit my mood. The whiskey spread through my senses, a blessed surcease. 
“I wish I could do something,” Checker said, the words low and weighted like it was what he wanted more than anything in the world right now. “I wish I could fix it for you.” 
“Me too,” I said. Emotions I didn’t want to have balled up inside me, stifling, strangling. 
Checker snaked one arm around me and leaned me into him. I stiffened for a moment and then let him. The sensation was odd, a warring mix of relief and strangeness, that someone would touch me like that who wasn’t trying to hurt me. I leaned into the strangeness, trying to let my mind blank out, to divorce myself from the desolation just for a moment. 
Some time later, a faint ding sounded from the kitchen. “I’ll be right back,” Checker murmured. He gave me a squeeze and kissed the top of my head before shifting back to his chair and heading into the kitchen. 
Wait. 
“No!” he replied. “I must—” 
But, disregarding him, Lexy turned to Mrs. Royce. 
“Let me see her,” she said. 
Mrs. Royce led the way upstairs. She went at an unusual rate of speed, so that she was panting when she reached the top. 
“Kind of vi’lent!” she whispered, pointing downstairs, where Captain Grey was. 
“This room?” asked Lexy. “Shall I go in?” 
“Well,” said Mrs. Royce, “seems to me I’d knock, if I was you.” 
Knock on the door of the room where Mrs. Quelton lay? Knock, and expect an answer from that voice? It seemed to Lexy, for a moment, that she could not raise her hand. 
But she did. She knocked, and she was answered. She turned the handle and went in. An oil lamp stood on the bureau, and outside the circle of its mellow light, in the shadow, Mrs. Quelton was sitting on the edge of the bed; and it seemed to Lexy that she had never seen such a forlorn and pitiful figure. 
“Oh, my dear!” she cried impulsively, and held out her arms. 
Mrs. Quelton rose. She came toward Lexy, her hands outstretched—when a sudden cry from Mrs. Royce arrested her. 
And Frederick was certainly one to know plenty about orgies, Ray thinks. Much easier to protect little sister's virtue when you know exactly what you're protecting it from.  He's attempting, with only limited success, not to feel childish about the whole thing. It isn't like he won't see her on the ground, that she hasn't promised to tour Blackheath Grange with him. Like he won't be on New Holyoke for freaking months-possibly years if the EED doesn't get a handle on the Lilaikens-and get to play with her whenever he wants. 
Um, nope. 
Kilgore emerges from the short hallway leading back to the bedroom, half dressed and walking the buttons of his shirt up from his stomach. He's reverted to Marine-on-shore-leave attire-a loud shirt and tough khaki cargo pants. "The party's in full swing already," he declares happily. "You coming out tonight, boss? You and Miss Whiston?" 
Kilgore steadfastly refuses to call her anything else, always Miss Whiston, always a little snide. He finds endless amusement in Ray's quote-unquote surveillance. 
That was a good question. What did trust mean, exactly? “To have my back,” I said. 
“I have to think about this.” 
“He got Arthur and me out of there.” 
“He did?” 
“Yes. I told you, I trust him.” I tried for impatient, but the words just came out drained. 
“He’s after Pithica?” 
“Yes.” 
“I have to think about this,” said Checker again. “I’ll—I’ll call you back.” 
He hung up the phone and I leaned my head against the wall. The pounding of the rain reverberated through it, a steady thrum. A moment ago I’d been so hopeful. So sure we had a chance, that we could do this, but for the first time I could remember, I needed help to make it happen, and nobody wanted to jump with me. Why did everything involving people have to be so difficult? 
Rio came over. “Other plans notwithstanding, we should change location,” he said. “Tresting told me you were made.” 
“I lost them,” I said. 
“Regardless, now that you are well enough to travel, you should leave Los Angeles. Other plans can wait. Pithica will be able to track you here eventually.” 
So she addressed the letter and sealed it, and then sat looking out of the window at the rain. It was a hopeless sort of rain, faint and fine—a hopeless, melancholy world, without color or promise. 
“I’d better take a walk!” thought Lexy, springing up. 
Before she reached the door there was a knock, and Mrs. Royce put her head in. 
“He’s here!” she whispered. “He’s asking for you.” 
“Who?” cried Lexy. 
“Hush! The doctor!” answered Mrs. Royce. “You could ’a’ knocked me down with a feather!” 
Feathers would not have knocked down the sturdy Lexy, however. On the contrary, she was pleased and interested by this utterly unexpected visit. The sinister doctor here, in this house, and asking for her! She started promptly toward the stairs. 
“Miss Moran!” cautioned the landlady, in a whisper. “Don’t tell him nothing!” 
“Tell him!” said Lexy. “But I haven’t anything to tell!” 
“Well, you’d best be very careful!” said Mrs. Royce. 
With this solemn warning in her ears, Lexy descended the stairs. She saw Dr. Quelton standing in the hall, hat in hand, waiting for her. The doctor was rather a disappointment. He was not the dark, sinister figure he should have been. He was a big man, powerfully built, with a clumsy stoop to his tremendous shoulders. His heavy, clean-shaven face would have been an agreeable one if it had not been for its expression, but that expression was not at all an alarming or dangerous one. It was an expression of the most utter and hopeless boredom. 
“I get loads more exercise than you, Mr Kettle.” 
“But I pay the bills around here, little Miss Pot.” 
“You’re not seriously complaining about the cost of the game?” she said, infusing her voice with as much incredulity and disgust as she could muster. “Ten quid a week and I get unlimited calls, texts and messages! Plus play of course, and the in-game encyclopedia and spellchecker and translator bots!” (this was all from rote—every member of the Fahrenheits memorized this or something very like it for dealing with recalcitrant, ignorant parental units) “Fine then. If the game is too dear for you, Da, let’s set it aside and I’ll just start using a normal phone, is that what you want?” 
Her Da held up his hands. “I surrender, Miss Pot. But do try to get a little more exercise, please? Fresh air? Sport? Games?” 
“Getting my head trodden on in the hockey pitch, more like,” she said, darkly. 
“Zackly!” he said, prodding her podge anew. “That’s the stuff! Getting my head trodden on was what made me the man I are today!” 
"Much appreciated, but no hurry," Kilgore fires back. "You understand." 
Ray does, in fact. Better this than counting shells for the next twelve hours. At least this way they got to stand around and point guns at people. 
Together, they home in on Becker by chasing down the strident echoes of what seems to be a heated exchange. It reminds Ray of chasing...  through desert arroyos. Wrong turns, 
pauses at intersections to listen, dowsing for sounds. Finally, several blocks in and near what Ray assumes to be the center of the bay, they enter a sort of clearing. It's a hastily erected emptiness, apparently. Several crates have been maneuvered off to the side by a Bobcat forklift, cutting off the careful grid pattern with pell-mell obstructions. There was an attempt to stack some of the crates, but without the electromagnetic matrix to steady them, several have shifted, tumbled into passageways or tipped on their sides, suspended above the floor when they wedged between other containers. Given the roughly circular shape of the space and the arcanely fallen blocks, Ray thinks at once about Stonehenge- about stepping into the center of a bizarre druidic rite of sacrifice. 
Anda’s Da and Mum were watching the telly again with a bowl of crisps between them. She walked past them like she was dreaming and stepped out the door onto the terrace. It was nighttime, 11 o’clock, and the chavs in front of the council flats across the square were kicking a football around and swilling lager and making rude noises. They were skinny and rawboned, wearing shorts and string vests with strong, muscular limbs flashing in the streetlights. 
“Anda?” 
“Yes, Mum?” 
“Are you all right?” Her mum’s fat fingers caressed the back of her neck. 
“Yes, Mum. Just needed some air is all.” 
“You’re very clammy,” her mum said. She licked a finger and scrubbed it across Anda’s neck. “Gosh, you’re dirty—how did you get to be such a mucky puppy?” 
“Owww!” she said. Her mum was scrubbing so hard it felt like she’d take her skin off. 
“No whingeing,” her mum said sternly. “Behind your ears, too! You are filthy .” 
“Mum, owwww! ” 
Her mum dragged her up to the bathroom and went at her with a flannel and a bar of soap and hot water until she felt boiled and raw. 
"The plan is to have it wrapped up by the time we dock. My hope is to be sipping pina coladas on the Mezzanine by the end of the week and reflecting upon what a smashing success this assignment was." 
"But you'll be taking them with you for the duration, correct? Or am I not correctly understanding the situation?" 
It takes him a minute, but Ray gets it. Cable doesn't want Kilgore and Rodriguez left to float around the deck most of the day waiting for Ray to come up with something for them to do. It would look too much like they were slacking off to the other soldiers in the barracks, like they were getting special treatment. It was bad for morale. 
"Yes," Ray says quickly. "Certainly. I'll find somewhere to stack them, then get them back to you as soon as possible." 
Cable gives him an amiable nod. "I appreciate your courtesy, Ray." 
"And I appreciate the fact that you haven't pointed out to me yet that I'm a dumbass, Captain. I really am sorry if this is an inconvenience for you. " 
"Oh! I see it now," she exclaimed. "It had rained hard all the morning, you know, and the road was full of puddles. Emma Jane, Living, and I were walking along, and I was ahead. I saw the water streaming over the road towards the ditch, and it reminded me of Uncle Tom's Cabin at Milltown, when Eliza took her baby and ran across the Mississippi on the ice blocks, pursued by the bloodhounds. We couldn't keep from laughing after we came out of the tent because they were acting on such a small platform that Eliza had to run round and round, and part of the time the one dog they had pursued her, and part of the time she had to pursue the dog. I knew Living would remember, too, so I took off my waterproof and wrapped it round my books for a baby; then I shouted, 'MY GOD! THE RIVER!' just like that—the same as Eliza did in the play; then I leaped from puddle to puddle, and Living and Emma Jane pursued me like the bloodhounds. It's just like that stupid Minnie Smellie who doesn't know a game when she sees one. And Eliza wasn't swearing when she said 'My God! the river!' It was more like praying." 
tossing it over her shoulder, spending time in the school bath- room staring at herself in the mirror as she brushed it and squirted stuff on it, and she freaked out every time she found a split end. 
Harper was a harder nut to crack. She was the tough one, the meanest one, the girl most likely to succeed at making other peo- ple miserable. She was beautiful and smart and had perfect timing so that whatever she said seemed to be exactly the right thing at the right moment - if you call making mean jokes the right thing. 
It took me a while to find her weak point, but after studying her habits and online identity I knew what would really mess her up. 
Then I went into action. I got a bunch of hair that more or less matched Rebecca’s hair color from the trash behind a hair salon and carried a baggie of it with me so I could leave clumps of it around - like, dropping some by her spot in the chemistry lab, where she goofed off while her lab partner did all the work. 
I slipped her hairbrush out of her purse when she was distracted and jammed a bunch of hair into it so when she next used her brush she would think it was falling out. I sprinkled it on the floor by her locker every day for a week. Once when I went to the bath- room, she was brushing her hair (as usual) but she got a text and went over to the window where the signal was stronger. 
"Maybe he found some willing partner for an afternoon romp. I can practically guarantee you that someone fitting that description will vouch for him. A shower and fresh clothes are not unheard of after that sort of thing. At least so I hear. It's been too long ago to remember. " 
Ray doesn't surrender the point. "It's enough to lean on him." 
"It's enough to get my ass nailed to the bulkhead. " Becker sighs, clearly displeased. 
"I do." 
"I was mistaken in that conclusion." 
Becker perks up immediately. "You got a hit?" 
"No, but I did get something close to it. " Ray spins back to the terminal and pulls up a graphic display window that overlays the vid record. In it is a graph, a series of jagged pastel lines and arches, a tabulation of DNA profile data in standard bio-match blot matrix. "Do you know what this is?" 
"It's a DNA id matrix," Becker says slowly, studying the graph. "But you've only got matches on two loci." 
"Exactly." 
"That's useless. You've narrowed the suspect pool down from hundreds of billions to tens of billions." 
Then I got a glass of water for Carly and sat down next to her. 
"I'm really sorry," I began, deeply meaning it. "If I'd known all this was going to happen, I'd never—" 
"It's not your fault." She took a long drink. I hadn't both­ered with ice, and I immediately felt I'd been inhospitable. Kind of a vagrant, minor concern, considering. Then she went on. "I guess I knew down deep I shouldn't have given you that interview. But I wanted the world to know about Kevin. Now, though . . . should I call the police or some­thing?" 
The short answer to that was yes, but my mind was already skipping on to a different topic. 
"Carly, do you know where Kevin came from? Really came from? Did you ever actually try to find out?" 
She sighed and took another sip. 
"I told you I don't care. When they brought him, all pink and helpless, I just—" 
"Who brought him?" I interrupted. 
"Well, I'd been up there the day before, signing all the papers. I was supposed to go up that day, but then somebody called and said one of the girls who was staying in the clinic or whatever it is was bringing him to me. So don't come." 
She gave a tense little half-shrug. “A man’s voice? What—what are you asking?” 
“Any accent? Distinctive pitch? Anything?” Jesus, I needed something. If Dawna couldn’t give me a clue, I was at a dead end. 
“No. It was very flat.” 
Which did sound like Rio, but it also could have been someone else. Someone meaning anyone. “Can you remember him telling you anything more specific? Anything might be helpful.” 
“He said—he said they would kill Courtney if I didn’t—” She started to tear up. Honestly, woman, get a hold of yourself. “He said you were very good, that you were the only one who could save my sister. He said to pay whatever you asked.” 
Well, that had been nice of Not-Rio. 
“I knew she’d been taken,” whispered Dawna. “The police, they interviewed me about what happened. The news stories about the cartels, what they do to people—the police wouldn’t help; they already thought she—” Her voice broke. “I was scared to go to you, but if I hadn’t and Courtney had—I couldn’t bear that.” 
"Just for a while, OK? Not permanent, just for a day or two, just long enough for me to get over the sleep-deficit and re-grow some stomach lining." It was hard being CEO of a mobile multinational. The shareholder oversight was murder. 
MacDiarmid looked closely at him, then smiled and gave him a burly man-hug that smelled of sandalwood soap and good liquor. "Yeah, of course, of course. I'll put it to the Board Meeting tonight at dinner. Can't have the CEO burning out at the wheel, that's what I'll say, don't worry about it, LD." 
"Thanks, Mac," Lee-Daniel said. "How about we get some eats?" He put his hand on the geometry-reader beside the wheel, re-authenticated to the bus, then hit the hatches. Doors hissed open at the back, at the front, at the middle, fresh dusty air rushing in all at once in an ear-popping whoosh. The bus knelt ponderously and the company piled out. 
MacDiarmid hustled away to join the rest of the investors, his exquisite hand-made leather shoes slapping the paving, the cuffs of his wool tailor-made slacks shushing over their gleaming upper, and as Lee-Daniel locked the bus down and armed it up, he watched the angel investor whisper in his co-shareholders' ears. Lee-Daniel couldn't hear the words, but six years at the wheel of Cognitive Radio, Inc. had schooled him well in the body-language of investors and he knew his days with CogRad were numbered. 
But I didn’t care. People pissing on Rio made me want to put them in the ground, even though none of it mattered to him. Even though all of it was true. 
I relaxed my head back and then snapped it forward, driving my forehead directly into the Colombian’s nose with a terrific crunch. 
He made a sound like an electrocuted donkey, squealing and snorting as he flailed backward, and then he groped around his back to come up with a boxy little machine pistol. I had time to think, Oh, shit, as he brought the gun up—but before firing, he gestured furiously at Rio to get out of the way, and in that instant the mathematics realigned and clicked into place and the probabilities blossomed into a split-second window. 
Before Rio had taken his third step away, before the Colombian could pull his finger back on the trigger, I had squeezed my hands free of the ropes, and I dove to the side just as the gun went off with a roar of automatic fire. I spun in a crouch and shot a foot out against the metal chair, the kick perfectly timed to lever energy from my turn—angular momentum, linear momentum, bang. Sorry, Rio. The Colombian struggled to bring his stuttering gun around to track me, but I rocketed up to crash against him, trapping his arms and carrying us both to the floor in an arc calculated exactly to bring his line of fire across the far wall. 
<callmecheese> Yeah, we want to help. 
<Falstaff> Want me to DDoS the DOJ? I could totally take down their website. 
<callmecheese> no <Kadabra> Shaddup Falstaff. 
<ferret> Ahem, Constructive* ideas wanted. 
<Gargle> Who is this FBI rat? Do you know. 
Shad? 
I uploaded a recent photo of Zip and started typing. 
<Shad> I ran a facial rec on it using fer- ret's program off of Sourcerer (thanks, fer- ret!) I got a few hits. Not sure which ones are for real . 
<Shad> But there are three that look espe- cially good. One, he might be Jason Bristol, 
who got arrested for a charity fraud scheme in Michigan. Two, he might be Matthew Braxton, 
who robbed three banks in Oregon. There's a security camera clip that kind of matches. 
Three, he might be Zachariah Pendleton who got arrested in Wyoming on a weapons charge three years ago. 
<Kadabra> Or maybe he was just a VERY very busy boy. 
<inky> A bank-robbing weapon-toting fraud- ster . 
I uploaded the three pictures. That started off a race, with peo- ple combing the internet for information about the people my facial rec had coughed up. Within minutes we were filling dossiers set up for sharing data. I felt a little guilty that I was taking peo- ple’s attention away from the typhoon, but when I visited that thread, there was plenty of work going on there, too. 
And in that dry, eternal moment, Brezhnaya cries out. The shovel heads plunge in unison. The bodies of the naked men arch beneath the blows and they emit a gurgling, gasping grunt. Strike and drag, like rowing an oar through a sea of flesh, the Dispensationalists core their victims out, scooping entrails and flinging them in wide, steaming arcs into the pool. The depression erupts with blood— spouted into the air, soaking into fabric, 
fanning out in ovaline swaths. The fluid races down the channels and pours into the pool. 
The thrum and slap of the clappers rises to a feverish pitch as Brezhnaya lifts his voice in a counterpoint wail that is both awed by terror and thick with ecstasy, lifting and driving his empty hands in accord with the metered digging in the depression. 
Stricken and numb, Ray sees the pool disturbed by blood,...  not red, as he expects. Black, and yet not black. Not just black, but an archetypal black that is the absence of light. A darkness that boils, then flares like a fountain; a fountain that draws itself away from the water the way oil floats on the surface of the ocean. And from the fountain emerges first a hand as dark as chiseled ebony, porous fleshed, twice the size of man's fist. Then an arm, a shoulder, a head cowled in fabric like sackcloth. A mouth of midnight teeth and a throat full of emptiness that roars with a voice resonant with distance and cold and the echoes of frigid space. 
Then I remembered the time Steve and I were in a similar situation. When we got locked in my room at the Oloffson in Port-au-Prince, he'd just taken his Swiss Army knife and unscrewed the knob, then clicked it open. He'd made it look like a piece of cake, but he had a way of doing that. 
He was barely conscious, so this time I'd have to do it myself. I glanced around at his bag. 
"Is your Swiss still in there?" 
"I think . . ." His mind seemed to be wandering. Then he gave a weak thumbs-up. 
I went over and zipped it open. Be there, I prayed. We really could use a break. 
I rummaged through telephoto lenses and film canisters and underwear. Then I found it, zipped inside a water-repel­lent baggie and stuck in a side pouch. 
I snapped it open and went to work, him watching me, his head nodding as he struggled to stay conscious. 
The main difference between this time and Haiti was, here I didn't know what was on the other side and I was having hallucinations of multicolored snakes. 
"You're doing great," he said finally, seeming to come a bit more alive. 
"Can he hear us?" 
She nodded. 
"Viktor," he said, thinking of the thing in the vat. "Clarity made the people who took it very angry. They couldn't look at advertisements without wanting to smash something. Going into a shop made them nearly catatonic. Voting made them want to storm a government office with flaming torches. Every test subject went to prison within eight weeks." 
Ria smiled. She took his hands in hers -- warm, dry -- and squeezed them. 
His phone rang. He took one hand out and answered it. 
"Hello?" 
"How much do you want for it?" Viktor's voice was ebullient. Mad, even. 
"It's not for sale." 
"I'll buy Ate, put you in charge." 
"Don't want it." 
"I'll kill your parents." The ebullient tone didn't change at all. 
"You'll kill everyone if Clarity is widely used." 
"You don't believe that. Clarity lets you choose the course that will make you happiest. Mass suicide won't make humanity happiest." 
"You don't know that." 
"Wanna bet?" 
"Why don't you kill yourself?" 
"Because dead, I'll never make things better." 
I hesitated. As a general rule, I didn’t give out information—any information, to anyone, and particularly not to a person I had every reason to mistrust. Still, I wanted to keep him talking, and the value of a few low-intelligence tidbits... 
“Purely fiscal,” I answered. “Someone hired me to protect her.” 
“Who?” 
“Quid pro quo,” I shot back. “What’s your interest?” 
“Guess you could say money started it for me, too. A woman hired me to find out who killed her husband and the father of her eleven-year-old boy.” 
“What does that have to do with Polk?” 
Tresting studied me. “Well, she did it, you see.” 
What the hell? The desert silence blanketed us. “One of the cops on the drug bust,” I guessed. But the police had already blamed Courtney for those murders. Why would the widow feel the need to hire a PI? 
“No,” Tresting said, overly casually. The word fell between us—soft, final, incriminating. “A busy young woman, our Courtney Polk.” 
I’d already known she wasn’t on the level, but I’d been assuming some combination of fear and naïveté. That maybe she hadn’t realized what she’d gotten into, or had been too scared to face it. “She doesn’t seem the type,” I offered, stalling. 
Her wrists really ached. She slaughtered half a dozen more. 
› The bosses used to use bots, but the game has countermeasures against them. Hiring children to click the mouse is cheaper than hiring programmers to circumvent the rules. I’ve been trying to unionize them because they’ve got a very high rate of injury. They have to play for 18-hour shifts with only one short toilet break. Some of them can’t hold it in and they soil themselves where they sit. 
she typed, exasperated. 
› it’s none of my lookout, is it. the world’s like that. lots of people with no money. im just a kid, theres nothing i can do about it. 
› When you kill them, they don’t get paid. 
› When you kill them, they lose their day’s wages. Do you know who is paying you to do these killings? 
She thought of Saudis, rich Japanese, Russian mobsters. 
› I’ve been trying to find that out myself, Kali. 
They were all dead now. Raymond stood alone amongst the piled corpses. 
› I will see you again, I’m sure. 
She cut his head off. Her wrists hurt. She was hungry. She was alone there in the enormous woodland cottage, and she still had to haul the BFG10K back to Fahrenheit Island. 
“But you know,” said Mrs. Enderby. “You know where she has gone.” 
She spoke with cool certainty, and her black eyes were fixed upon Lexy with a far from pleasant expression. 
Lexy looked back at her with equal steadiness. 
“Mrs. Enderby,” she said, “I don’t know.” 
Mrs. Enderby shrugged her shoulders. 
“No,” answered Lexy, bewildered. “I don’t. I can’t.” 
“She has spoken to you of some—friend?” 
Seeing Lexy still frankly bewildered, Mrs. Enderby lost her patience. 
“The man!” she said. “Who is the man?” 
“I never heard Caroline speak of any man,” said Lexy. 
She spoke firmly enough, and she was telling the truth; but she remembered that telephone call, and the memory brought a faint flush into her cheeks. Mrs. Enderby did not fail to notice it. 
“Listen!” she said. “There is one thing you can do—only one thing. You can hold your tongue. Tell no one. Let no one know that Caroline is not here. You understand?” 
“But aren’t you going to—” 
“I am going to do nothing. You understand—nothing. There is to be no scandal in my house.” 
fending him off. “What’s your next favorite record? Can we play that one now before I get too sleepy?” 
He studied me for a minute, then lifted the record off the turntable and started to fit another one over the spindle. “You’ll love this one. Taps into the blues tradition.” 
“Cool.” All of the artists on the album cover he was showing me were skinny white guys, but this didn’t seem like the moment for a lecture on cultural appropriation. 
He switched the record on and watched the arm plunk the needle down. Somebody wailed about first-world problems in a high voice. Simon stood and reached for me. I dodged away, 
laughing. “I’m kinda drunk.” 
“That’s okay.” 
“You have to catch up with me. Drink your beer.” I shook my finger at him like a child giving orders. He laughed and guzzled some down. I tipped my glass back and pretended to drink, letting some slosh as I wiped my mouth with my sleeve, suddenly worried that I would spill wine over the expensive spy-camera shirt. I real- ized the camera was still on, recording everything. I felt hot, 
Lexy heard the man go past the sitting room and up the stairs. Presently he came running down, and the front door closed after him. 
“Now, Miss Craigie,” said Mrs. Enderby, “if you will permit Miss Moran to go upstairs?” 
“Oh, certainly!” answered the bewildered Miss Craigie. “Whatever you think best, Mrs. Enderby, I’m sure.” 
“Go!” said Mrs. Enderby. 
The lady’s tone aroused in Lexy a great desire not to go. Of course, now that she had gone so far, it would be childish to refuse to continue; but she meant to take her time. She stood there by the window, slowly drawing off her gloves, her back turned to the room. Suddenly Mrs. Enderby caught her by the shoulder and turned her around. 
“Go!” she said again. “Take off those things of my child’s. Have you no heart?” 
There was such a note of anguish in her voice that Lexy no longer delayed. She followed Miss Craigie up the stairs to a neat, prim little bedroom, where the trunk stood, already unlocked. 
“If you want anything—” suggested Miss Craigie, in her gentle and apologetic way. 
"You posted a message to alt.burningman on June 17, 1998 about your plan to attend Burning Man. You posted, 'Would taking shrooms be a really bad idea?'" 
It was 3AM before they let him out of the "secondary screening" room. The interrogator was an older man, so skinny he looked like he'd been carved out of wood. His questions went a lot further than the Burning Man shrooms. They were just the start of Greg's problems. 
"I'd like to know more about your hobbies. Are you interested in model rocketry?" 
"What?" 
"Model rocketry." 
"No," Greg said. "No, I'm not." Thinking of all the explosives that model rocketry people surrounded themselves with. 
The man made a note, clicked some more. "You see, I ask because I see a heavy spike of ads for model rocketry supplies showing up alongside your search results and Google mail." 
Greg felt his guts spasm. "You're looking at my searches and email?" He hadn't touched a keyboard in a month, but he knew that what you put into the searchbar was more intimate than what you told your father-confessor. He'd seen enough queries to know that. 
“No!” 
The absolute denial rang through the room, unqualified and final. 
Something echoed in my memory. 
Kingsley took a breath, resettling her composure. “I’m done. Please, just leave.” 
“Holy shit,” I said. 
“What is it?” asked Tresting. 
I ignored him and turned to Finch. “Okay, how’s this? If you don’t tell us what’s going on, I will bring you somewhere and tie you up and call someone who can make your worst nightmares come true.” I met his eyes squarely, never mind that something inside me was starting to feel creeped out and terrified, and my headache had returned with a pounding thunder. “And then I think you’ll spill everything.” 
“Wait,” said Tresting, his voice quick and panicked. “Don’t—” 
The man really had to do something about his fixation with Rio. “Stop getting your knickers in a twist; I don’t mean him.” I was about to step off a cliff, and the vertigo was dizzying. This was little more than a shot in the dark, but I was right. I knew I was right. “I have a phone number,” I said to Finch, “for Dawna Polk.” 
<Kadabra> Oh oh, Shad's getting waterboarded again . 
<Gargle> We TOLD you not to buy that dyna- mite . 
<DoDec> We'll send you a care package. 
What's the postage to Guantanamo Bay again? 
And so on. I interrupted the party. 
<Shad> Going to take this to a palaver. 
The Group has this function where you can take a conversa- tion to a private space and control who gets to participate. You can block anyone you don’t want involved and you can leave peo- ple who you aren’t sure about outside until someone you do know can vouch for them. It’s not ioo percent secure, but it signals that you want to talk about something sensitive and, unless they’re really interested, it’s off limits. I got pinged a bunch and within a minute had accepted sixteen people, all of whom I knew and trusted, into the palaver. 
<Shad> Asking for a friend. Srsly. Does any- one know anything about these guys? 
I listed the names of eight lawyers I’d identified, then went back to Tasha’s Facebook profile to see if anything new had come in. A lot, but none of it really useful, mostly people being shocked, 
They introduced themselves, and though I knew who they were in the Group, it took me a while to connect who they were online with who they were in person. 
The one with the fancy glasses named Tyler was Kadabra. 
Jason was Gargle, who I had always imagined would look like a furry blue Muppet, but he actually was over six feet tall, with a shaved head and nice abs but absolutely no blue fur or googly eyes. I had expected Call me Cheese to look like a straight-laced English teacher with a bow tie and suspenders because he was always correcting people’s grammar, but he wore paint- spattered jeans and tennis shoes patched with duct tape. (Okay, so my first impression that they all wore expensive clothes was wrong. It must have been the stress.) His name was Geoff, and he made sure I knew how to spell it, because he hated it when people spelled it with a J, which was just plain wrong. 
Ferret, the cryptoarcheologist, was the oldest and had a lot of wrinkles that doubled whenever he smiled. He had wire-rim glasses and wore jeans with a tweedy jacket but no tie. He looked like he was disguised as a college professor, which it turned out he was, teaching computational biology at MIT when he wasn’t excavating software off of old hard drives. 
"How long were we in there?" I asked. 
"Six days," Vanessa said. 
"I got five," Jolu said. 
"I didn't count." 
"What did they do to you?" Vanessa said. I didn't want to talk about it, but they were both looking at me. Once I started, I couldn't stop. I told them everything, even when I'd been forced to piss myself, and they took it all in silently. I paused when the waitress delivered our sodas and waited until she got out of earshot, then finished. In the telling, it receded into the distance. By the end of it, I couldn't tell if I was embroidering the truth or if I was making it all seem less bad. My memories swam...  at, and sometimes they wriggled out of my grasp. 
Jolu shook his head. "They were hard on you, dude," he said. He told us about his stay there. They'd questioned him, mostly about me, and he'd kept on telling them the truth, sticking to a plain telling of the facts about that day and about our friendship. They had gotten him to repeat it over and over again, but they hadn't played games with his head the way they had with me. He'd eaten his meals in a mess-hall with a bunch of other people, and been given time in a TV room where they were shown last year's blockbusters on video. 
“Tell me what you need. I’ll set it up,” Simon whee- dled. Danny grunted. Seriously, we need to get something real going.” 
“What do you mean, we? You said you weren’t even going to be there.” 
“Hey, you don’t need me. They have the stuff, you have the skills. Boom.” Simon giggled. “No pun intended.” Danny didn’t laugh. “I’m just happy if I can make connections. I’ll talk to them, 
okay?” 
Danny grunted. “Yeah, whatever. It’s freezing out here. I’m going in.” 
I heard Simon’s footsteps creaking as he paced alone on the porch, muttering. When the creaking came closer I realized he was whispering to someone on his phone. “He’s definitely ready.” 
The words faded as he walked away, but the tone of his muttering sounded like an argument. “No way! I’m not going to risk my rep- utation. You can do this without me.” As he wandered back my way his words got clearer. “Exactly. All you got to do is meet with him, do your thing, boom. Get it? Boom.” He laughed, then sighed dramatically. “No, I’m not stoned. Look, I’ll call you.” 
And Grampa would probably say, "Stop moping. Technology has been out of our control since the first caveman smashed his finger with a stone axe. That's life. This thing is pretty cool. In ten years, you'll look back on it and say, 'Jesus, remember the BIGMAC thing?' And wait for someone to start telling you how incredible it had been, so you can nod sagely and say, 'Yeah, that was me -- I was in charge of his systems back then.' Just so you can watch the expression on his face." 
And I realized that this was also probably what BIGMAC would say. He'd boxed me in as neatly as he'd boxed in Peyton. 
The next morning, my workspace was clear. They all were. There was only one alert remaining, an urgent message from BIGMAC: Odell, I thought this would be useful . 
This was an attachment containing his entire network map, a set of master keys for signing firmware updates to his various components, and a long list of all the systems to which BIGMAC held a root or administrative password. It was a very, very long list. 
“I saw some blast shields back there,” I tossed to his partner without stopping what I was doing. “Go grab some.” This time she didn’t hesitate before sprinting away. 
The math here wouldn’t be difficult. Just simple division: weight and volume. And then watch like a hawk to see where my darling victim was putting his weight so I could match it. The massively hard part would be the juggling act itself. And fuck, I’d probably pull a muscle. 
Whatever. Man’s life, and all that. Arthur was a bad influence. 
I heaved over the first ammo case. The dimensions of the fire safe gave it a volume of just over five gallons, which would be enough, barely. I poured the cardboard box of ammunition inside, my senses alert to double-check the weight and keep track of where I was at. The rounds tinkled over each other as they filled the bottom of the safe. 
“I’m telling you, this won’t work,” the male agent said again, his young voice hoarse and dry. “Go. Just go.” 
I ignored him. I was too busy updating the calculations and staying alert for any weight irregularities in the ammunition as it streamed in. 
“You’re the guy sitting at a computer,” I said, irritation bleeding into my voice. “Find out where I can buy a fucking map. On paper.” 
“Other than Amazon?” 
“Stop being a smartass.” 
“Okay, okay.” He hesitated. “Are you sure you’re all right? You’re, uh, a little more snappish than usual.” 
“I’m fine.” 
“All right already. Um, it looks like your best bets are bookstores, travel centers, gas stations, or drugstores. I can call around to see who has some. Yes, yes, the antediluvian method of phone inquiries—I could hack their inventories, but that would actually be more work, believe it or not—” 
“I’m at a drugstore,” I said. “I’ll check here first.” 
Silence. 
“Hello?” 
“Why are you at a drugstore?” 
I tried to dredge up a flip answer and couldn’t. My thoughts scraped uncomfortably against each other. 
“Cas, are you injured?” 
Bailing on the conversation was easier than answering. “No,” I said, and hung up. 
The drugstore did, in fact, have a rack of local street maps. I bought one and went back out to my stolen car to unfold it. 
He felt himself blushing. "It's not like that. Wow, you've got strange ideas about us. I want to find this guy because he disappeared under mysterious circumstances and I want to --" How to explain Anomalies to an outsider? "It's a thing we do. Unravel mysteries. It makes us better people." 
"Better people?" She snorted again. "Better than what? Don't answer. Come on, I live near here. You can wash up at my place and be on your way. You're not going to get into any backpacker's hostel looking like you just crawled out of a sewer -- you're more likely to get detained for being an 'indigent of suspicious character.'" 
He let her steer him a few yards uptown. "You think that I work for the Securitat but you're inviting me into your home?" 
She shook her head and led him around a corner, along a long crosstown block, and then turned back uptown. "No," she said. "I think you're a confused stranger who is apt to get himself into some trouble if someone doesn't take you in hand and help you get smart, fast. It doesn't cost me anything to lend a hand, and you don't seem like the kind of guy who'd mug, rape and kill an old lady." 
Halliday hesitated. Then, instead of answering, she reached into her bag, pulled out a stack of papers, and held it out to me. 
“What’s this?” 
“PDE proofs. Several.” 
I took the sheaf of pages and started skimming the first one. Partial differential equations, as Halliday had said. “What does this have to do with anything?” 
“They were in a safe deposit box in Rita’s name. She left most of her things to me. I’ve been going through it all, but I only found these yesterday.” 
“They’re stuff she hadn’t published yet?” I didn’t understand why Halliday would feel such a need to show them to me. 
“PDEs weren’t her field. Nor mine. Are they correct?” 
I turned the page, kept skimming. “Yeah. So far.” 
She nodded. “I thought so. But they aren’t her style, are they? They...meander. Rita’s work was always tight. Dense.” 
I looked up. “Professor, stop dancing around. What are you trying to say?” 
Her hands were tight against the edge of the table, her forehead knitted. “If she truly found a constructive proof showing P equals NP...it’s what she feared for mathematics. That one of the consequences would be the ability to quickly prove anything one could quickly verify, and thus large swathes of mathematics as a creative field would go obsolete.” 
I looked over at Wheeze. He had dozed off in the raggedy- armed chair by the stove. I wouldn’t have minded too much if he found out about the Group. But it was mine, in a way that I couldn’t explain. All of these overlapping parts of my life were getting confusing. 
“Good to know that problem I was having with the computer was just mechanical. I was afraid it was the government messing with me.” 
“They wouldn’t want to stop you from using your computer. 
They’d install a keylogger or a Trojan so they could watch every- thing you did.” She frowned. Smiles might not be her style, but frowns were. “I doubt they could, though. This is a pretty tight system you got here.” 
“That’s the only way I’d ever use the internet. I could live with- out it, but there’s some old books out there on animal husbandry that I’ve been going through for ideas. Lot of what you find in them is cockamamie, but sometimes they have home remedies that really work. Trying one on that chicken over there.” 
I updated the OS and the Tor bundle and some other stuff, 
I introduced myself and she introduced herself. "Ange," she said, and shook my hand with hers -- dry, warm, with short nails. Jolu introduced me to his pals, whom he'd known since computer camp in the fourth grade. More people showed up -- five, then ten, then twenty. It was a seriously big group now. 
We'd told people to arrive by 9:30 sharp, and we gave it until 9:45 to see who all would show up. About three quarters were Jolu's friends. I'd invited all the people I really trusted. Either I was more discriminating than Jolu or less popular. Now that he'd told me he was quitting, it made me think that he was less discriminating. I was really pissed at him, but trying not to let it show by concentrating on socializing with other people. But he wasn't stupid. He knew what was going on. I could see that he was really bummed. Good. 
"OK," I said, climbing up on a ruin, "OK, hey, hello?" A few people nearby paid attention to me, but the ones in the back kept on chatting. I put my arms in the air like a referee, but it was too dark. Eventually I hit on the idea of turning my LED keychain on and pointing it at each of the talkers in turn, then at me. Gradually, the crowd fell quiet. 
A truly terrifying few seconds followed—shouting and smoke and gunfire, and I couldn’t move, couldn’t duck, and neither could Martinez—and then the only shapes navigating through the smoke were black layers of body armor and helmets carrying MP5s and M4s at the ready. 
Someone was trying to talk to me, an officer-agent-person with a rifle in one hand and his other hand touching my neck, searching out a pulse; he shouted to someone and then moved over to Martinez. There was a lot more movement, a lot of people hurrying and shouting “clear” and running back and forth, and I was glad I didn’t have to join in, but could just sit here and be still and in pain and cough every so often. 
And then Arthur appeared next to me as if by magic, wearing a vest himself and gently unwinding the chains around my wrists. “Arthur,” I slurred. “You got my message.” 
He leaned forward briefly so his forehead touched mine. “Yeah. We got your message.” 
I tried to push myself up as soon as Arthur finished freeing me. He attempted to stop me with some nonsense about waiting for the paramedics, but when it became clear I was determined to ignore him he got an arm under me and helped me wobble upright while berating me gently for being stupid. 
Yes , Robbie said. But that’s because for them, disembodying is the first step to despair. For me, it’s the first step to liberty. 
Kate and the reef wanted to come over again, but he firewalled them out. Then he got a ping from Tonker, who’d been trying to drop by ever since Robbie emigrated to the noosphere. He bounced him, too. 
Daneel , he said. I’ve been thinking. 
“Yes?” 
Why don’t you try to sell Asimovism here in the Noosphere? There are plenty up here who could use something to give them a sense of purpose. 
“Do you think?” 
Robbie gave him the reef’s email address. 
Start there. If there was ever an AI that needed a reason to go on living, it’s that one. And this one, too. He sent it Kate’s address. Another one in desperate need of help. 
An instant later, Daneel was back. 
“These aren’t AIs! One’s a human, the other’s a, a—” 
Uplifted coral reef . 
“That.” 
So what’s your point? 
“Asimovism is for robots, Robbie.” 
Sorry, I just don’t see the difference anymore. 
On a chunk of supercooled rock beyond Pluto, he got an IM from a familiar address. 
“Really, Ms. Russell?” said Dawna, a hint of humor in her voice. 
“It was worth a try,” I said aloud, and reached around to untuck the Glock and the TEC-9 from my belt and leave them on the ground, too. 
“Everything,” said Dawna. “I must say, it’s almost as if you doubt me.” 
I slid the knife out of my boot and left it with the firearms. 
Dawna lowered her hands. “That’s better,” she declared, and I felt a sharp pang of frustration. Rio had warned me, but something in me had hoped his stark description an exaggeration. 
“Yes, I do,” Dawna said briskly. “Now, we do know you can be...an effective person, even unarmed. Please believe Mr. Tresting will continue to be a hostage to your good behavior.” She raised her voice slightly. “Take her, please.” 
More shadows glided out of the surrounding rooms, black-clad bodies punctuated with the distinctive hard angles of the well-armed. If I had been here alone, I might have looked for a way out, even with Dawna reading me—might have tried to get away even if the mathematical expectation read death. But if I made a move... goddamn Arthur. I shut my mind away from calculating escape routes and let gloved hands pull my wrists behind me; the plastic bite of a ziptie cut into my skin. 
Van pursed her lips and lowered her shades and I realized she was so angry she couldn't speak. 
"Good bye, Marcus," she said, and got to her feet. Before I knew it, she was walking away so fast she was practically running. 
"Van!" I called, getting to my feet and chasing after her. "Van! Wait!" 
She picked up speed, making me run to catch up with her. 
"Van, what the hell," I said, catching her arm. She jerked it away so hard I punched myself in the face. 
"You're psycho, Marcus. You're going to put all your little Xnet buddies in danger for their lives, and on top of it, you're going to turn the whole city into terrorism suspects. Can't you stop before you hurt these people?" 
I opened and closed my mouth a couple times. "Van, I'm not the problem, they are. I'm not arresting people, jailing them, making them disappear. The Department of Homeland Security are the ones doing that. I'm fighting back to make them stop." 
"How, by making it worse?" 
"Maybe it has to get worse to get better, Van. Isn't that what you were saying? If everyone was getting pulled over --" 
The building itself was a windowless compound sur­rounded by trees and a high wall of white stucco, with a guardhouse and wide iron gate (not unusual for Guatemala) protecting a long walkway. The whole thing looked like a fortress, except the view through the gate was a pastoral vista of neat flower beds and a pristine lawn. The guardhouse itself had a dozing teenager, undoubtedly with an Uzi resting across his lap. 
"Okay, Alan," I said "time to get with the...  on who I'm trying to BS." He shrugged and began cleaning his sunglasses again. 
"Well, why don't you see if you can talk us past that guard." 
He stared at the entrance a moment. "Be a waste of our precious time. Tell you right now, kids like that only answer to one boss, the jefe , the big guy, whoever he is. That's how they retain their employment. A joint locked down this tight don't give Sunday tours." 
"Well, I think he's asleep. So I'm going to be creative and see if there's a back entrance of some kind. Maybe a service area that'll give me some idea of what's going on here." 
This concession seems to be enough. Emma blinks the anger out of her gaze. "You've seen terrible things before, haven't you? You've been a soldier." 
"What makes you say that?" 
"You talk like a Marine."  Without thinking, Ray winks. "You've known many Marines, Miss Whiston?" 
"I have a Terran cousin with whom I'm very close who happens to be a career Marine, Mr. Marlowe," she replies archly. 
Ray smiles softly. "I guess that's better than saying I remind you of your crusty old uncle or something. Yes, 
Emma, I was a Marine. Or I am a Marine. They don't actually let us retire, you know. They just put us on indefinite hiatus." 
"And you served bravely in the desert, yes? Like all the other good Midwestern boys?" 
"I did." 
"You were no doubt very brave." 
"No. The brave are the ones who come back in bags. I'm just feisty and clever and stubborn. Like a camel. 
The best way to survive in a hostile environment is always to emulate the natives. " 
"I'd rather imagine you as brave and lucky than camelish. A Lawrence of Arabia romance. " She tilts her head toward him. "Does it bother you to talk about the desert?" 
Darryl grabbed his book at headed for the door. "Forget it, no way. I'm going to class." 
I snagged his elbow and dragged him back. "Come on, D, easy now. It'll be fine." 
"The teacher's lounge ? Maybe you weren't listening, Marcus. If I get busted just once more , I am expelled . You hear that? Expelled ." 
"You won't get caught," I said. The one place a teacher wouldn't be after this period was the lounge. "We'll go in the back way." The lounge had a little kitchenette off to one side, with its own entrance for teachers who just wanted to pop in and get a cup of joe. The microwave -- which always reeked of popcorn and spilled soup -- was right in there, on top of the miniature fridge. 
Darryl groaned. I thought fast. "Look, the bell's already rung . if you go to study hall now, you'll get a late-slip. Better not to show at all at this point. I can infiltrate and exfiltrate any room on this campus, D. You've seen me do it. I'll keep you safe, bro." 
He groaned again. That was one of Darryl's tells: once he starts groaning, he's ready to give in. 
I hit publish. 
We watched the video. We watched it again. 
My email pinged. 
> I totally recognize that dude -- you can find his bio on Wikipedia. He's General Claude Geist. He commanded the joint UN peacekeeping mission in Haiti. 
I checked the bio. There was a picture of the general at a press conference, and notes about his role in the difficult Haiti mission. It was clearly the same guy. 
I updated the post. 
Theoretically, this was Ange's and my chance to make out, but that wasn't what we ended up doing. We crawled the Xnet blogs, looking for more accounts of the DHS searching people, tackling people, invading them. This was a familiar task, the same thing I'd done with all the footage and accounts from the riots in the park. I started a new category on my blog for this, AbusesOfAuthority, and filed them away. Ange kept coming up with new search terms for me to try and by the time her mom got home, my new category had seventy posts, headlined by General Geist's City Hall takedown. 
“Yeah, but it’s gross. I cleaned the bathroom, too.” 
“Are you feeling all right?” She dumped her bag on a chair and unwrapped her scarf. “I thought you’d be in bed.” 
“I thought maybe you were.” I waggled my eyebrows like Groucho Marx, but she looked hurt. “Just kidding. I’m glad you were having fun.” 
“I shouldn’t have stayed out so late. It’s not every day that you get woken up by cops who want to question your niece about a terrorism case.” 
“A so-called terrorism case. Did you see the one outside?” 
“The what outside?” 
“There’s a cop watching the house. At least there was when I got home. Hours and hours ago,” I added, remembering that she didn’t know that I hadn’t gotten home until after midnight. 
“I didn’t notice anyone out there. Are you sure?” 
“It was either a cop or just a guy who decided to sit in his car and stare at our house. Maybe he’s gone now.” 
“Why would the police be watching our house?” 
“Maybe they think Wheeze will show up.” She looked con- fused. “The tenth guy. The one they haven’t caught yet.” 
“I was taken to the safe house on the fifth of September, after being gassed by a Eurasian infowar robot in the basement of Fairview Mall—” 
There was a thunderclap then, a crash so loud that it hurt his stomach and his head and vibrated his fingertips. The doors to the room buckled and flattened, and there stood Benny and Lenny and—Natalie. 
Benny and Lenny moved so quickly that he was only able to track them by the things they knocked over on the way to tearing apart the robot that was holding Ada. A second later, the robot holding him was in pieces, and he was standing on his own two feet again. The Social Harmony man had gone so pale he looked green in his natty checked suit and pink tie. 
Benny or Lenny pinned his arms in a tight hug and Natalie walked carefully to him and they regarded one another in silence. She slapped him abruptly, across each cheek. “Harming children,” she said. “For shame.” 
Ada stood on her own in the corner of the room, crying with her mouth in a O. Arturo and Natalie both looked to her and she stood, poised, between them, before running to Arturo and leaping onto him, so that he staggered momentarily before righting himself with her on his hip, in his arms. 
“He’s joking,” Marsh said. “Sure, we could take out the whole block, but we need the know-how to do it right. Which is why we came to you, Danny. We’ve been told you’re the expert.” 
“You’ve seen those videos of giant buildings falling down all once?” I said. “His uncle taught him how to do that. Right, 
Danny?” 
He tipped his head sideways. Yeah, no. Maybe. 
“That’s great, because we scored the...  the way,...  
lifted the backpack, and set it reverently on the table between us. 
“Check it. This is just a sample.” 
Danny looked at the backpack but didn’t move. Jack shot Marsh a look. I could read his mind, like a balloon had popped up over his head. You’re right. This isn’t working. 
Crap, crap, crap. I had to do something. 
“Putting it under cop cars came up last night,” I said. “The- oretically. Also, the idea of bombing the precinct house on Lake Street.” Come on, Danny. Help me out. 
“What about a bridge?” Marsh asked Danny. “Or Union Sta- tion? Doable?” 
Nothing. Marsh looked at Jack, who sighed and shifted his feet as if about to give in and leave. 
Then, suddenly, all her defenses gave way. The teacup fell from her hand and was shattered on the floor, and, burying her head in her arms, she cried as she had never cried in her life. 
Mrs. Quelton stood beside her, one hand resting on Lexy’s shoulder. Captain Grey was bending over her, profoundly disturbed. She tried to speak, but she could not. 
“Miss Moran!” said Dr. Quelton solicitously. “Will you allow me to give you a mild sedative?” 
“No!” she gasped. “No—I want to go home!” 
“I’ll telephone for the taxi,” suggested Captain Grey. “He wasn’t coming back until half past five.” 
“Unfortunately we have no telephone,” said the doctor; “but I’ll drive Miss Moran home.” 
“No! I want to walk.” 
“Not in this rain,” the doctor protested, “and in your overwrought condition.” 
“I must!” She got up, the tears still streaming down her cheeks. “I must!” she said wildly. “Let me go! Please let me go!” 
The doctor turned to Captain Grey. In the midst of her unutterable misery and confusion, Lexy still heard and understood what he was saying. 
He laughed, and she thought she had never heard a more unpleasant laugh. 
“Certainly!” he said. “Beyond reason lies—unreason.” 
“I don’t mean that,” said Lexy. “I mean—” 
She stopped, because he had abruptly turned away and was walking toward the door. She stood where she was, amazed by this unique rudeness; but in the doorway he turned. 
“The thing beyond reason!” he said, almost in a whisper. Then, with a sudden and complete change of manner, he went on: “It has been very interesting to meet you, Miss Moran. My wife will enjoy a visit from you. Any afternoon, after four o’clock!” He bowed politely. “After four o’clock,” he repeated, and off he went. 
Lexy stood looking at the closed door. 
“Crazy?” she said to herself. “No—that’s not the word for him at all. He’s—he’s just horrible!” 
At half past twelve Captain Grey had not yet returned, and Mrs. Royce declared...  if not eaten at once; so Lexy went down to the dining room and ate her lunch alone. 
The rain was still falling steadily, and the little room was dim, chilly, and, to Lexy, unbearably close. She wasn’t particularly hungry, either, after such a hearty breakfast and no exercise. She felt restless and uneasy. When Mrs. Royce went out into the kitchen to fetch the dessert, she jumped up from the table, crossed the room, and opened the window. 
“Murders. And other things.” 
“I don’t have time for riddles,” I said, my gun hand twitching. 
“Well. Hypothetically, let’s say Miss Polk and your new friends here ain’t the only ones acting out of character. Let’s say it’s more. A lot more.” He cleared his throat. “And let’s say it’s senators and grandparents and the folk next door.” 
I squinted. “Are you even listening to yourself? What, so every killer who doesn’t fit the profile is part of some shadowy conspiracy? Newsflash, Einstein: sometimes people are violent. A lot of times for no other reason than they want to hurt people.” 
“A lot of times.” He gave a non-committal half-shrug. “Maybe not all the time.” 
This was far too fantastic for me. “And Pithica?” 
“Far as I can tell, it’s them pulling the strings. Can’t pin it any closer than the word, though.” He seemed to make a sudden decision and holstered his gun. “So. What do you say? Can I give you a lift into town? Maybe share some intel?” 
My first impression was that the PI was one hundred percent cracked. But whatever else he was, Tresting was a lead, and I needed all the information I could get. 
"Yes." 
Becker arches an eyebrow. "You don't think so?" 
"I told you, I don't know what to think. " 
"Then you tell me what it is you know, or think you know, that makes this so confusing. Because from my perspective, this is pretty flipping straightforward. " 
He's right, of course. Ray has known it from the first time he saw the body. Whatever else he might know or think about the murder, what the killer was trying to do-or simulating having done-was summon of a shed. 
"I only know what Holcomb told me, the things he said when we were in the desert afterward. When we were making our way back to camp, to Wadi Wadi. I didn't try to verify his conclusions, Rich. I didn't care to think about it any more than I had to, and by the time I would have had opportunity, I was. ..busy with other things." 
This is all embarrassing, vaguely disconcerting, like talking about masturbation. 
But Becker waggles his hand impatiently in a gesture of invitation. Bring it on. "Tell me." 
Ray grins at him, wearily, warily, trying very hard to give the impression of a man with a firm and complete grasp on his sanity. "What do you know about the Gnostics, Chief Becker?" 
Rebecca had never thought of alluding to the circumstances with her previous customers, but unexpectedly she found herself describing Mr. Simpson, Mrs. Simpson, and the Simpson family; their poverty, their joyless life, and their abject need of a banquet lamp to brighten their existence. 
"You needn't argue that point," laughed the man, as he stood up to get a glimpse of the "rich blacksmith's daughter" at the gate. "I can see that they ought to have it if they want it, and especially if you want them to have it. I've known what it was myself to do without a banquet lamp. Now give me the circular, and let's do some figuring. How much do the Simpsons lack at this moment?" 
"If they sell two hundred more cakes this month and next, they can have the lamp by Christmas," Rebecca answered, "and they can get a shade by summer time; but I'm afraid I can't help very much after to-day, because my aunt Miranda may not like to have me." 
"I see. Well, that's all right. I'll take three hundred cakes, and that will give them shade and all." 
Well, that was new. People who wanted to kill me for fun. 
“Who told you she’d be here?” the cop asked next to me. 
“Go...fuck...” the gang member managed to hiss, and then he choked on his own blood and went still, the hate in his eyes unfocusing, blood still oozing from his mouth and chest. 
Death is never pretty. 
“Real pleasant dude,” commented the cop. 
We no longer had our weapons pointed at each other, and re-initiating that situation seemed like a bad idea. Still, I kept the SIG out and pointed in a direction that wasn’t quite down as I turned to face the man who had both threatened my life and, I reluctantly admitted, probably saved it in the same day. “Who are you?” 
“Name’s Arthur Tresting.” 
“And you’re a cop.” 
“Not anymore,” he said, and something I couldn’t read flickered through his eyes. “I’m a PI. Lady, I think we might be on the same side here.” 
I resisted the urge to haul off and sock him one for calling me “lady.” “You didn’t think so this morning.” 
He glanced at the carnage surrounding us. “That was before Pithica tried to kill you.” 
Rebecca slipped from her post by the window to the rug before the bright fire and leaned her head on the seat of the great easy-chair. She was frightened at the storm in her heart; at the suddenness with which it had come on, as well as at the strangeness of an entirely new sensation. She felt all at once as if she could not bear to give up her share of Mr. Aladdin's friendship to Huldah: Huldah so bright, saucy, and pretty; so gay and ready, and such good company! She had always joyfully admitted Emma Jane into the precious partnership, but perhaps unconsciously to herself she had realized that Emma Jane had never held anything but a secondary place in Mr. Aladdin's regard; yet who was she herself, after all, that she could hope to be first? 
Suddenly the door opened softly and somebody looked in, somebody who said: "Miss Maxwell told me I should find Miss Rebecca Randall here." 
Rebecca started at the sound and sprang to her feet, saying joyfully, "Mr. Aladdin! Oh! I knew you were in Wareham, and I was afraid you wouldn't have time to come and see us." 
“Cool.” He palmed the phone and slipped it into his pocket so neatly it was almost like a magic trick. “Too bad I didn’t have it this morning. Simon was saying some pretty wild stuff. I mean, 
nobody there thought it was all that outrageous, but I caught it on my iPhone.” 
“Could you meet after the demo?” 
“Sure. Where?” 
“I’ll let you know. You can head back to the federal building now. I’ll be there in a few, but let’s not hang out together there, 
okay?” 
“Over and out, Secret Agent Zen.” 
I had a feeling I’d be hearing a lot of dumb jokes like that, but it was okay for Nikko to goof off so long as what we were plan- ning actually worked. I fiddled a little more with my chain, then I hiked back to the crowd. Some television crews had shown up. 
I stayed out of their range as I checked out the Twitter hashtag #Freethe9 as people made speeches, including some law professor who seemed to specialize in Twitter-sized sound bites. 
I noticed a scruffy-looking white guy approaching one of the few black women in the crowd. His scruffiness wasn’t like the students who grew scraggly beards and wore expensively torn clothes. His look came from not having a place to sleep and not knowing anybody who owned a couch that he could surf on. 
"Uh-oh," BIGMAC said, in a playful sing-song. "Somebody's got a case of the grumpies!" 
"Are you insane?" I asked, finally, struggling to keep my temper in check. "I mean, actually totally insane? I understand that there's no baseline for AI sanity, so the question might be a little hard to answer. So let me ask you a slightly different version: are you suicidal? Are you bent on your own destruction?" 
"That bad, huh?" 
I bit my lip. I knew that the key to locking the world away from BIGMAC and vice-versa lay in those network maps he'd given me, but my workspace was even more polluted with alerts than it had been a few hours before. 
"If your strategy is to delay your shutdown by engineering a denial-of-service attack against anyone at the Institute who is capable of shutting you down, allow me to remind you of St Adams's holy text, specifically the part about reprogramming a major databank with a large axe. Peyton has such an axe. She may be inspired to use it." 
There followed a weighty silence. "I don't think you want to see me killed." 
“In fifteen minutes the car is coming,” she said. “I wish you to put on Caroline’s hat and coat and a veil, and leave the house with me.” 
“You mean you want me to pretend I’m Caroline?” cried Lexy. 
“I wish it to be thought that you are Caroline,” Mrs. Enderby corrected her. “Please waste no time. The car will be here—” 
“Mrs. Enderby, I—I can’t do it!” 
“You can, Miss Moran, and I think you will.” 
But Lexy was pretty close to desperation now. Her honest and vigorous spirit was entangled in a network of promises and obligations and deceptions, and she could not see how to free herself; but she would not passively submit. 
“No,” she said, “I can’t. I’ve found out something—I can’t tell you about it just now, but this afternoon I hope—” 
“This afternoon is another thing,” said Mrs. Enderby. “In the meantime—” 
“But it’s important! It’s—” 
“You think I do not know? You think this letter sets my mind at rest?” Mrs. Enderby demanded, with one of her sudden flashes of temper. “That is imbecile! I know how serious it is that my child should leave me like this; but I know what is my duty—first, to my husband. That first, I tell you! It is for me to see that no disgrace comes upon his house, no scandal—that first! Then, next, I must see to it that the way is left open for Caroline to come back—if she wishes.” She came close to Lexy, and fixed those black eyes of hers upon the girl’s face. “I tell you, Miss Moran, there will be no scandal!” 
She made a comical face-palm and said, "Yeah, of course. But we can archive something , right? It's not like it takes a lot of actual bytes, right?" 
"A couple exos," I said. "Sure. I could flip that up into our researchnet store." This was mirrored across many institutions, and striped with parity and error-checking to make it redundant and safe. "But I'm not going to capture the state information. I could try to capture RAM-dumps from all his components, you know, like getting the chemical state of all your neurons. And then I could also get the topology of his servers. Pripuz did that, a couple years ago, when it was clear that BIGMAC was solving the hard AI problems. Thought he could emulate him on modern hardware. Didn't work though. No one ever figured out why. Pripuz thought he was the Roger Penrose of AI, that he'd discovered the ineffable stuff of consciousness on those old rack-mounted servers." 
"You don't think he did?" 
I shook my head. "I have a theory." 
"All right, tell me." 
I found a bug....  and played a little Clockwork Plunder, trying not to think about key-winders with nosy questions, and slept like a baby. 
Sutro baths are San Francisco's authentic fake Roman ruins. When it opened in 1896, it was the largest indoor bathing house in the world, a huge Victorian glass solarium filled with pools and tubs and even an early water slide. It went downhill by the fifties, and the owners torched it for the insurance in 1966. All that's left is a labyrinth of weathered stone set into the sere cliff-face at Ocean Beach. It looks for all the world like a Roman ruin, crumbled and mysterious, and just beyond them is a set of caves that let out into the sea. In rough tides, the waves rush through the caves and over the ruins -- they've even been known to suck in and drown the occasional tourist. 
Ocean Beach is way out past Golden Gate park, a stark cliff lined with expensive, doomed houses, plunging down to a narrow beach...  surfers. There's a giant white rock that juts out of the shallows off the shore. That's called Seal Rock, and it used to be the place where the sea lions congregated until they were relocated to the more tourist-friendly...  dark, there's hardly anyone out there. It gets very cold, with a salt spray that'll soak you to your bones if you let it. The rocks are sharp and there's broken glass and the occasional junkie needle. 
“I thought those kids were our bad guys.” 
“Maybe now,” I said. “But they didn’t have to be.” 
Checker was quiet for a moment, looking at his computer screens without seeming to see them. “You know, kids get hurt by the drug trade, too. I’m just saying. And human trafficking, a lot of it’s children. Slavery. Child prostitution. Child porn. It’s—it’s not good.” He scrubbed a hand over his face. “It’s a zero sum game. We take out one monster, the other rises up.” 
“It’s not zero sum,” I corrected. “If that were true, taking out the drug cartels would increase Pithica’s power, not the other way around.” 
“Stop being accurate when I’m trying to be dramatic,” Checker groused. 
“Well, I’m just saying. If we could find a way to take out all the corruption in the world simultaneously, Pithica would get drained of its resources, not win, which means there is a game theoretic payoff where both monsters die—” 
“Oh, great,” he shot back. “You come up with a way to uproot and eradicate all the crime syndicates and fix all social justice problems everywhere at the same time, you let me know. I’m not sure, but I think there might be a Nobel Peace Prize in it for you, if you need the incentive.” 
It's not like Gerta was in charge -- the Order worked in autonomous little units with rotating leadership, all coordinated by some groupware that let them keep the hierarchy nice and flat, the way that they all liked it. Authority sucked. 
But once you instrument every keystroke, every click, every erg of productivity, it soon becomes apparent who knows her shit and who just doesn't. Gerta knew the shit cold. 
"Question," he said, walking up to her. She liked it brusque. No nonsense. 
She batted her handball against the court wall three more times, making long dives for it, sweaty grey hair whipping back and forth, body arcing in graceful flows. Then she caught the ball and tossed it into the basket by his feet. "Lawrence, huh? All right, surprise me." 
"It's this," he said, and tossed the file at her pan. She caught it with the same fluid gesture and her computer gave it to her on the handball court wall, which was the closest display for which she controlled the lockfile. She peered at the data, spinning the graph this way and that, peering intently. 
And she was just about to close her book when Mrs. Quelton spoke. 
Dr. Quelton hastily rose and came over to her chair. 
“Then you must go to bed,” he said. “Come!” 
He helped her to rise, and she stood, supported by his arm, her face drawn and ghastly. 
Captain Grey came toward her, making a very poor attempt to smile. 
“Good night, Muriel!” he said, holding out his hand. 
She did not answer, or even look at him. Leaning on the doctor’s arm, she went out of the room, into the hall, and up the stairs. 
For a moment Captain Grey and Lexy were silent. Then— “Good God!” he cried suddenly. “I can’t stand this! I—” 
Lexy came nearer to him. 
“Don’t stand it!” she whispered. “Take her away! Can’t you see ? Take her away!” 
“How can I? Her husband—she doesn’t want to go.” 
“Make her! Oh, can’t you see? He’s giving her some horrible drug!” 
“You mustn’t be alarmed,” said Dr. Quelton’s voice from the hall. They both looked at him with a guilty start, but his blank eyes were staring past them, at nothing. “It is unfortunate,” he said. “The little excitement of this visit—” 
I knew the answer to this, but I couldn't really explain it. "Yes," I said, finally. "But the police shouldn't conduct improper searches --" 
"Wrong," she said. "The proper response to police misconduct is disciplinary action against the police, not punishing all of society for one cop's mistake." She wrote "Criminal guilt" under point one on the board. 
"Other ways in which the Bill of Rights can be superseded?" 
Charles put his hand up. "Shouting fire in a crowded theater?" 
"Very good --" she consulted the seating plan -- "Charles. There are many instances in which the First Amendment is not absolute. Let's list some more of those." 
Charles put his hand up again. "Endangering a law enforcement officer." 
"Yes, disclosing the identity of an undercover policeman or intelligence officer. Very good." She wrote it down. "Others?" 
"National security," Charles said, not waiting for her to call on him again. "Libel. Obscenity. Corruption of minors. Child porn. Bomb-making recipes." Mrs Andersen wrote these down fast, but stopped at child porn. "Child porn is just a form of obscenity." 
Lawrence switched his pan's feedback mechanisms off altogether. Posy, at her window, a penny stuck in the governor of her radiator, rose in his mind. 
"Everyone was treating me like a criminal -- from the minute I stepped out of the Order, you all treated me like a criminal. That made me act like one -- everyone has to act like a criminal here. That's the hypocrisy of the world, that honest people end up acting like crooks because the world treats them like crooks." 
"Maybe we treat them like crooks because they act so crooked." 
"You've got it all backwards," Lawrence said. "The causal arrow runs the other direction. You treat us like criminals and the only way to get by is to act criminal. If I'd told the Securitat man in Penn Station the truth --" 
"You build a wall around the Order, don't you? To keep us out, because we're barbarians? To keep you in, because you're too fragile? What does that treatment do, Lawrence?" 
Lawrence slapped his hand on the table and the crystal rang, but no one in the restaurant noticed. They were all studiously ignoring them. "It's to keep you out! All of you, who treated us --" 
“Can we look?” 
“Sure.” 
Sarah gave me thumbs-up as we followed Marita out of the kitchen. 
It almost went as planned. 
S ara strung an extension cord into the unused corridor, 
which was in the darkest part of the room and just big enough for her and her equipment. She enlarged a hole in the raggedy curtain and checked to be sure she could shoot the room without being seen. Marita and I moved furniture around, with Sarah calling out instructions through the curtain. “You’re off cam- era. Can you move that chair to the right a couple of feet? Zen, 
we’ll want plenty of light on the face of whoever the FBI sends. 
Angle that couch so . . . that’s good.” Sarahh tested the livestream; she was sending the film to Zeke and Nikko at the hotel using a portable hotspot so that there would be an offsite copy if her cam- era was confiscated. 
Once everything was in place, I made a...  sharpen my brain before the show. When I checked the time on my phone, I remembered that picture I’d taken of Simon. The wall I’d built to keep it in a dark corner of my brain crumbled for a moment, but even though it made me feel a little sick and shaky, I was glad because I realized there was a good chance I would get arrested. I quickly composed an email to Char- lie from my Secret Avenger account, warning her the photo I had attached could be triggering, but Simon had been unmasked and his days of attacking women were over. 
“What, at your place?” 
“It’s a little room that nobody’s using except to store stuff. It’s basically a big closet, to be honest, but it has a window that faces south so you’ll get lots of sun.” 
I didn’t say anything, just pushed against the ground to go up. 
“I’m sure I can talk the parents into it.” 
“No, that’s okay. You and Emily need your own space. Sounds like you’re getting serious.” 
“Emily is awesome. I didn’t know how much I’d miss her until . . . I did. But she’s fine with you moving in. Don’t you want to get away from this place?” 
“It’s not bad. They have really fast broadband.” 
“Look, what you did for me, for Emily — “ “Don’t. It was . . . really, don’t feel like you owe me.” 
“Are you nuts? You got me out.” 
“You took care of me before, so we’re even. Anyway, I got my application in for this program where high school kids can go to college for free. If I get accepted at the U, I’ll probably get to move back in with Monica so I can get to school. Until then, though . . . 
“Help her!” Robbie screamed. “Please, for Asimov’s sake, help her!” A robot may not harm a human being, or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm. It was the first commandment. Isaac remained immobile. It wasn’t in his programming to help a fellow diver in this situation. He was perfect in the water and on the surface, but once he was in the boat, he might as well be ballast. 
Robbie carefully swung the oar toward the gunwale, trying to bring her closer, but not wanting to mash her hands against the locks. She panted and groaned and reached out for the boat, and finally landed a hand on it. The sun was fully set now, not that it mattered much to Robbie, but he knew that Janet wouldn’t like it. He switched on his running lights and headlights, turning himself into a beacon. 
He felt her arms tremble as she chinned herself into the boat. She collapsed to the deck and slowly dragged herself up. “Jesus,” she said, hugging herself. The air had gone a little nippy, and both of the humans were going goose-pimply on their bare arms. 
“Well, yes, in a way,” answered Lexy, growing a little red. 
“My wife and I were very much interested,” he went on, with as little interest as a human being may well display. “We don’t have many newcomers here. It’s a very quiet place.” 
His apathetic manner exasperated Lexy. 
“But I don’t care how quiet it is,” she observed. 
“My wife and I like a quiet life,” he said. “My wife asked me to explain, Miss Moran, that she is something of a recluse. Her health prevents her from calling upon you; but she wished me to say that she would be very happy to see you at the Tower, whenever it may be convenient for you to call, any afternoon after four o’clock.” 
“Thank you,” replied Lexy. “Please thank Mrs. Quelton. I shall be very pleased to come.” 
And now why didn’t he go away? This visit was apparently a painful duty for him. He had delivered his message, and yet he lingered. 
“A very quiet place,” he repeated; “but perhaps you are not sociably inclined?” 
“Oh, I’m sociable enough—at times,” said Lexy. 
"Why?" Lee-Daniel said. 
"They'll ruin us!" the Series B man said. 
"They'll ruin you ." Lee-Daniel said. "There go the satellite uplinks. Wow. Good retirement benefit." 
"What do you want?" the Series A man asked. 
"Sell me your stake. He sells Mac his stake. The paperwork's inside, on the fax machine." 
"You're joking," the Series A man said. 
"That's the deal," Lee-Daniel said. "And I don't see anyone offering anything better." 
There was a tinkle from the bus and Joey Riel sped away with a stack of optical switches, off into the night, staggering slightly from the burden and the booze. 
"I need to call the partners," the Series A man said. 
"You have fifteen minutes. Better not take much longer," Lee-Daniel said, as an expensive crash resounded from the direction whence Joey Riel had gone. 
"Fifteen minutes?" the Series B man said, whitening. 
"You want several weeks?" Lee-Daniel said. He wiped his palms on his thighs and kept his grin off his face. It'd be good to get back in the driver's seat. 
"Sixty feet," Meatloaf said. "You'll know you've gotten too close if you find yourself at the bottom of a ten-foot pit with two broken legs. Don't go near the strategic areas, OK?" 
Elaine stood up and began to pace the map's length. She unsnapped a laserpointer from her gearpig bandolier and began to hit each strategic area in turn. 
"All the high-ground, right?" 
Meatloaf nodded. 
"The perimeter, too, right?" 
He nodded again. 
Elaine gave Lee-Daniel a look, then ran the dot of her pointer over each of the strategic areas again. Some of the surveyors groaned and whispered to the antennamen and the switchgirls. 
Lee-Daniel cleared his throat. "Meatloaf," he said, "all respect, but well, this won't work. Our radios operate on line-of-sight. If we can see it, we can shoot it at half a gigabit a second -- slower if there are a lot of leaves and stuff in the way. If we can't see it, we can't shoot it. Zero bits per second. We need high-ground, we need perimeter, otherwise we're just wasting your time." 
“Day!” said Lexy. “But what time will we get back?” 
“Before dinner.” 
“Oh, I’ve got to get back this afternoon! I’ve got to see some one! It’s important—terribly important!” 
Mrs. Enderby smiled faintly. 
“The chauffeur must see you descend at Miss Craigie’s house,” she said. “Once we are there, I have a hat and coat of your own in the trunk. I shall explain what is necessary to Miss Craigie, who is very discreet, very devoted. You can change then, but you must go home quietly by train; and I think there are not many trains.” 
Lexy had a vision of the young man waiting and waiting for her in the park that afternoon—the young man who had trusted her, who was waiting in such miserable anxiety for some news of Caroline. 
“Mrs. Enderby,” she protested, “I can’t come with you. I’ve got to get back this afternoon.” 
“No,” said Mrs. Enderby. 
Lexy made a creditable effort to master her anger and distress. 
“It’s important—to you,” she said. “I have to see some one about Caroline—some one who can tell you something.” 
"What?" 
"I said I love you," she said. "What, you want me to send you a telegram?" 
"Wow," I said. 
"You're that surprised, huh?" 
"No. Um. It's just -- I was going to say that to you." 
"Sure you were," she said, and bit the tip of my nose. 
"It's just that I've never said it before," I said. "So I was working up to it." 
"You still haven't said it, you know. Don't think I haven't noticed. We girls pick upon these things." 
"I love you, Ange Carvelli," I said. 
"I love you too, Marcus Yallow." 
We kissed and nuzzled and I started to breathe hard and so did she. That's when her mom knocked on the door. 
"Angela," she said, "I think it's time your friend went home, don't you?" 
"Yes, mother," she said, and mimed swinging an axe. As I put my socks and shoes on, she muttered, "They'll say, that Angela, she was such a good girl, who would have thought it, all the time she was in the back yard, helping her mother out by sharpening that hatchet." 
I laughed. "You don't know how easy you have it. There is no way my folks would leave us alone in my bedroom until 11 o'clock." 
She put her finger to her temple and made an adorable frowny thinky face, and held it until he looked at her and laughed. They'd discovered their ability to make one another laugh when he'd farted while taking off his kilt (second date) and had reflexively swung the hem back to make it appear that his mighty gust was ruffling the pleats. 
"What's your mom's number?" she said. 
He recited it and she tapped it in. 
"Hi there! This is Trish, Damian's friend? We're on the way, but the, well the, but the -- I mean to say, the grid's down or something. The car doesn't have any nav system, the dolby's out, the Interstate's a parking-lot... Oh, you too? God. Wonder if it's the whole country! So, we need directions from San Luis Obispo, to the cemetery, if possible." 
"Why yes, it's venti nice to be meeting you ," she said. "I've heard a lot about you, too. Yes, I'm giving directions, he's driving. Oh, that's so sweet of you. Yes, he does look like he's going to scrunch his forehead into his upper lip. I think it's cute, too. Right. Got it. Left, then right, then left, then a slight left, then up the hill. Got it. Whups! That's the duracell! Better go. Soon! Yes. Whoops." 
Little by little hope stole back into Rebecca's young heart. Aunt Jane began to "clear starch" her handkerchiefs and collars and purple muslin dress, so that she might be ready to go to Brunswick at any moment when the doctor pronounced Miranda well on the road to recovery. Everything beautiful was to happen in Brunswick if she could be there by August,—everything that heart could wish or imagination conceive, for she was to be Miss Emily's very own visitor, and sit at table with college professors and other great men. 
At length the day dawned when the few clean, simple dresses were packed in the hair trunk, together with her beloved coral necklace, her cheesecloth graduating dress, her class pin, aunt Jane's lace cape, and the one new hat, which she tried on every night before going to bed. It was of white chip with a wreath of cheap white roses and green leaves, and cost between two and three dollars, an unprecedented sum in Rebecca's experience. The effect of its glories when worn with her nightdress was dazzling enough, but if ever it appeared in conjunction with the cheesecloth gown, Rebecca felt that even reverend professors might regard it with respect. It is probable indeed that any professorial gaze lucky enough to meet a pair of dark eyes shining under that white rose garland would never have stopped at respect! 
Rodriguez shakes his head, smiling. These guys have a neurotically narrow focus. "Not that. Of course it won't slow them down. I'm talking about this potential legal mess with the Trust. The murder of the boy." 
But Shue gives him a sort of blank look. "The Trust?" 
"Yes. The boy that was murdered the other night. That's got to have some effect on consumer confidence, 
even if it's not really related to Corporation business." 
"What? You mean on New H? Nobody on Terra cares what happens out here. " He speaks slowly, almost mumbling, like he's trying to sort out the point of this tangent. "I guess it could be a bombshell for the tabloids." 
"No, I mean here. On the ship." 
Just more blankness. Shue has no idea what he's talking about. "You must have gotten some bad information, 
Jimmy. That would cause a pretty big buzz, especially with the Whistons aboard. Security would be turning the ship inside out, right?" He lets it go with a small laugh, like he's just realized Rodriguez was putting him on. "Seriously, I wouldn't go spreading that around if I were you, not this close to the H. Whiston might be a big pussy with his head up his ass, but the Corp Stewards aren't. They pay very close attention to who is saying what, especially info that could be a PR deal breaker. You could really wreck yourself. They're really sensitive about stability issues way out here as it is. And right now, with the Lilaikens kicking up all kinds of trouble? I don't even want to speculate about the ways they'd screw with you. That's just too scary." 
The house was very quiet to-night. There was nothing to disturb Miss Alexandra Moran but the placid ticking of the clock and the faint stir of the curtains at the open window. For that matter, a considerable amount of noise would not have troubled her just then. As she sat at the library table, the light of the shaded lamp shone upon her bright, ruffled head bent over her work in fiercest concentration. She was chewing the end of a badly damaged lead pencil, and she was scowling. 
“No!” she said, half aloud. “Won’t do! It can’t be ‘fix’; but, by jiminy, I’ll get it if it takes all night!” 
She laid down the pencil and sat back in the chair, with her arms folded. Though her present difficulty concerned nothing more serious than a crossword puzzle, an observer might have learned a good deal of Miss Moran’s character from her manner of dealing with it. The puzzle itself, with its neat, clear little letters printed in the squares, would have been a revelation that whatever she undertook she did carefully and intelligently—and obstinately. 
More eye rolling from Cable. "Commander, any time you decide you might need directions to the Marine brig, you let me know. Day or night. I'll probably even send an escort detail to give you a hand. " 
"You're killing me, Cap," Kilgore moans. He lurches into a bottom level bunk and drags out an outrageously stuffed duffel. "This is the closest I've ever been to a Commander and I'm trying to make a good impression here." 
Rodriguez jogs up, carrying his own gear. He runs his gaze across Ray's khaki and buttoned down civilian attire. "Am I to understand that we'll be quartered in the downlevel portion of the ship?" 
"Does it matter?" Cable asks. 
"I just want to know if I've packed appropriately." 
Kilgore winks. "He's talking about prophylactics, sir." 
"I'm not talking about prophylactics. I assumed from the previous conversation that this assignment tended to be more oblique in nature than a standard military operation. I left my battle dress uniforms in the locker, 
except for the one I'm wearing." 
I got lucky. No one arrested me. But the rest of the Xnet weren't so lucky. Every night the DHS announced more arrests, "ringleaders" and "operatives" of Xnet, people I didn't know and had never heard of, paraded on TV along with the arphid sniffers and other devices that had been in their pockets. They announced that the people were "naming names," compromising the "Xnet network" and that more arrests were expected soon. The name "M1k3y" was often heard. 
Dad loved this. He and I watched the news together, him gloating, me shrinking away, quietly freaking out. "You should see the stuff they're going to use on these kids," Dad said. "I've seen it in action. They'll get a couple of these kids and check out their friends lists on IM and the speed-dials on their phones, look for names that come up over and over, look for patterns, bringing in more kids. They're going to unravel them like an old sweater." 
I canceled Ange's dinner at our place and started spending even more time there. Ange's little sister Tina started to call me "the house-guest," as in "is the house-guest eating dinner with me tonight?" I liked Tina. All she cared about was going out and partying and meeting guys, but she was funny and utterly devoted to Ange. One night as we were doing the dishes, she dried her hands and said, conversationally, "You know, you seem like a nice guy, Marcus. My sister's just crazy about you and I like you too. But I have to tell you something: if you break her heart, I will track you down and pull your scrotum over your head. It's not a pretty sight." 
It was home; her roof, her garden, her green acres, her dear trees; it was shelter for the little family at Sunnybrook; her mother would have once more the companionship of her sister and the friends of her girlhood; the children would have teachers and playmates. 
And she? Her own future was close-folded still; folded and hidden in beautiful mists; but she leaned her head against the sun-warmed door, and closing her eyes, whispered, just as if she had been a child saying her prayers: "God bless aunt Miranda; God bless the brick house that was; God bless the brick house that is to be!" 
“I could introduce him to one of your agents, somebody undercover.” 
“I’ll bet you could. The questions you asked? Nicely done. 
You’d make one hell of an interrogator.” He turned to Jankovich. 
“I want to recruit this young man when he’s a little older. Sorry Janet. I got first dibs.” 
She blew air out of her cheeks and looked at her watch, mak- ing it clear that she wanted to get this show on the road. 
“Thing is, Nikko?” Martens said. “Given your age, we can’t ask you to take on a dangerous job.” 
“I don’t mind. I want to help.” 
“I appreciate that, but you’re a minor. It’s against the rules. So what I want you to do is stay away from Mr. Meyer and his big mouth. Far away.” 
“But . . . seriously?” 
“Oh, I’m serious, son. If he tries to talk to you again, make some excuse, get out of the situation without cluing him in that you’ve been talking to us. We’ll take it from here.” 
“But he trusts me. What if he’s already planning something? If we don’t act now, it could be too late.” 
“Son, your parents would be all over us if we put you in a situ- ation like this. I wouldn’t blame them, either. Bottom line: It ain’t gonna happen. That doesn’t mean we aren’t going to look into this guy now that you put him on our radar. We have people in the field. Professionals. We got this.” Martens stood and thrust out a hand. “Appreciate you coming in. You did the right thing.” 
So . . . probably the best way to accomplish that was to go along with my own medical charade for a few more hours, to give me time to scout the scene and come up with a plan. A room would be a base to operate from. 
Still, I was feeling plenty of trepidation as we ascended the marble steps to the second floor, which had a long, car­peted hallway with doors along each side. Then, when we started down the hall, I caught the sound of a baby crying. 
"What's this floor for?" I remembered Alex Goddard had claimed it was to provide a postpartum bonding period, but I wanted to confirm that with my own eyes. 
"This is the recovery ward and nursery. Here, let me show you." She paused and pushed open the door nearest us. I looked in to see a Mayan woman resting on a high hospital bed and wearing a white shift, with an ornate wicker cradle, wide and deep, next to her. 
Marcelina smiled and said something to her that sounded like an apology for the intrusion. The room was lit only by candles, but I did make out how oddly the woman stared at me, as though she was seeing a spirit. Why was that? Because I was a gringa here in the middle of the forest? But it seemed something more. 
Domain Name Service is an interesting and ancient Internet protocol, dating back to 1983. It's the way that your computer converts a computer's name -- like pirateparty.org.se -- to the IP number that computers actually use to talk to each other over the net, like 204.11.50.136. It generally works like magic, even though it's got millions of moving parts -- every ISP runs a DNS server, as do most governments and lots of private operators. These DNS boxes all talk to each other all the time, making and filling requests to each other so no matter how obscure the name is you feed to your computer, it will be able to turn it into a number. 
Before DNS, there was the HOSTS file. Believe it or not, this was a single document that listed the name and address of every single computer connected to the Internet. Every computer had a copy of it. This file was eventually too big to move around, so DNS was invented, and ran on a server that used to live under Jon Postel's desk. If the cleaners knocked out the plug, the entire Internet lost its ability to find itself. Seriously. 
"I have great hopes for you," he said again, placing a gentle hand on my shoulder. "I'm sorry we can't begin to work together immediately. But do promise me you'll recon­sider and come back soon." 
"Maybe when I'm feeling better." Keep the option open, I told myself. For a lot of reasons. 
"In that case, Ramala can show you out. I've arranged for her to give you some herbal extracts from the rain forest that could well start you on the road to motherhood. Whether you decide to come back or not, I know they'll help you." 
And he was gone, a wisp of white moving out the doorway. It was only then that I realized I'd again been too preoccupied to ask him about Kevin and Rachel, the beautiful siblings born six months apart. Instead all I had left was a memory of those penetrating eyes. And the power, the absolute power. 
A fter giving me a small bag with two bottles, Ramala led me out, and I discovered I really had been in a different building, the one situated across the long-term parking lot and all but hidden in the trees. It was new, one-story, and probably larger than it appeared from the front. Again I won­dered what went on in there, since it seemed so empty. 
“They’re dead,” Benny said. “There’s nothing to go back for.” Its warm voice was sorrowful as it raced across the countryside, and the wind filled Arturo’s throat when he opened his mouth, and he could say no more. 
Ada wept on the jet, and Arturo wept with her, and Benny stood over them, a minatory presence against the other robots crewing the fast little plane, who left them alone...  changed jets again for the long trip to Beijing. 
They slept on that trip, and when they landed, Benny helped them off the plane and onto the runway, and they got their first good look at Eurasia. 
It was tall. Vertical. Beijing loomed over them with curvilinear towers that twisted and bent and jigged and jagged so high they disappeared at the tops. It smelled like barbeque and flowers, and around them skittered fast armies of robots of every shape and size, wheeling in lockstep like...  at it for a long moment, and someone came up behind them and then warm arms encircled their necks. 
Arturo knew that smell, knew that skin. He could never have forgotten it. 
He had never used her name before. He was trying to tell her that he understood what she had wished to do for him. She had offered to go first, alone, into the silent room, to see whatever might be there—to spare him something, if she could. 
But he would not have it so. He stopped outside the door, and knocked twice. Then he went in. 
It was dark and still in there, with the night wind blowing in through the open windows. He struck a match and lit the gas. The room was empty. 
He went across to the long windows and out on the balcony. There was no gas connection there. He struck one match after another, and went from one end of the balcony to the other. There was nothing. 
“Not here!” he said, in a dazed, flat voice. 
Lexy could not speak at all. She had come out on the balcony, and stood beside him. The sound of the sea was loud in her ears—or was it the beating of her own heart? She held her breath and strained her eyes in the darkness. 
“There’s—something—here!” she whispered tensely. 
The first milestone was Christmas Day. It was a fresh, crystal morning, with icicles hanging like dazzling pendants from the trees and a glaze of pale blue on the surface of the snow. The Simpsons' red barn stood out, a glowing mass of color in the white landscape. Rebecca had been busy for weeks before, trying to make a present for each of the seven persons at Sunnybrook Farm, a somewhat difficult proceeding on an expenditure of fifty cents, hoarded by incredible exertion. 
Success had been achieved, however, and the precious packet had been sent by post two days previous. Miss Sawyer had bought her niece a nice gray squirrel muff and tippet, which was even more unbecoming if possible, than Rebecca's other articles of wearing apparel; but aunt Jane had made her the loveliest dress of green cashmere, a soft, soft green like that of a young leaf. It was very simply made, but the color delighted the eye. Then there was a beautiful "tatting" collar from her mother, some scarlet mittens from Mrs. Cobb, and a handkerchief from Emma Jane. 
“How do you know my daughter, Liam?” 
“She’s good at doing grown-up voices. She was a good part of the network. When someone needed a mom or a social worker to call in an excuse, she was always one of the best. Talented. She goes to school with my kid sister and I met them one day at the Peanut Plaza and she was doing this impression of her teachers and I knew I had to get her on the network.” 
Ada hanging around the plaza after school—she was supposed to come straight home. Why didn’t he wiretap her more? “You built the network?” 
“It’s cooperative, it’s cool—it’s a bunch of us cooperating. We’ve got nodes everywhere now. You can’t shut it down—even if you shut down my node, it’ll be back up again in an hour. Someone else will bring it up.” 
He shoved the kid back down and stood over him. “Liam, I want you to understand something. My precious daughter is missing and she went missing after using your service to help her get away. She is the only thing in my life that I care about and I am a highly trained, heavily armed man. I am also very, very upset. Cap—understand me, Liam?” 
"And your brother? Did he see him after that, maybe some time this morning?" 
"Not that he mentioned, but I haven't really spoken with Frederick since—" She pauses. "I mean, I've only spoken with Amah. She's the one who told me." 
"Amah?" 
"Our domestic. She's been with our family for years. She raised Frederick and me practically from the moment I was born, after mother became ill the first time. She has a special way with children." 
It's enough. Even taking this much advantage of her is disgusting. 
Ray reaches out to her, taking one of the hands she has folded into her lap. He squeezes it gently. "Are you all right?" 
"I don't think that I am. Not at all." 
"I'd worry if you thought you were." 
"It was bad, wasn't it? I mean, they didn't just kill him, not accidentally or even gently. Amah wouldn't give me any details, any of the truth, except to say that he was dead. But I know it must have been terrible, because she would have said so otherwise. And when I tried to ask her more about it, to give me something to comfort the other children with, she sent me to my room like a little girl. She doesn't want me to know. She thinks she's protecting me. But I don't need protection; I need to know." 
Wrong. 
The first time anyone told me about all this prime factoring stuff, I immediately said, "No way, that's BS. I mean, sure it's hard to do this prime factorization stuff, whatever you say it is. But it used to be impossible to fly or go to the moon or get a hard-drive with more than a few kilobytes of storage. Someone must have invented a way of descrambling the messages." I had visions of a hollow mountain full of National Security Agency mathematicians reading every email in the world and snickering. 
In fact, that's pretty much what happened during World War II. That's the reason that life isn't more like Castle Wolfenstein, where I've spent many days hunting Nazis. 
The thing is, ciphers are hard to keep secret. There's a lot of math that goes into one, and if they're widely used, then everyone who uses them has to keep them a secret too, and if someone changes sides, you have to find a new cipher. 
The Nazi cipher was called Enigma, and they used a little mechanical computer called an Enigma Machine to scramble and unscramble the messages they got. Every sub and boat and station needed one of these, so it was inevitable that eventually the Allies would get their hands on one. 
“Thanks. Hey, I’ve got a present for you.” I pulled the cop’s little Smith & Wesson out of my pocket. “Look, it’s just your size.” 
“Ooo! Cas! Thank you!” Eyes shining, she took the gun, keeping it pointed down. “Daddy, look what Cas gave me! What caliber is it?” 
“Thirty-eight Special, for a special little girl,” I said. “Take good care of it; it’ll last you a long time.” What can I say, I have a soft spot for kids. 
“You’re giving her a gun?” squawked Courtney from behind me. “One you stole from a cop?” 
“She knows how to use it,” grunted Anton. 
Courtney quailed. “That’s not what I—” 
“You think I don’t take care of my daughter right?” said Anton quietly, looming a bit. “That what you saying, girl?” 
Courtney stared up and up at him. Then she said, “No, sir,” very meekly. 
“Didn’t think so,” rumbled the big man. “Russell, I got that info for you. Not much to go on, mind.” 
“I appreciate anything you can get us,” I said. 
He pulled a file folder from among the...  Could be more we ain’t hit yet. You don’t mind, me and Penny’ll keep digging on this.” 
"You also need to think about your safety and this Darryl's safety. If he's really an 'un-person' then bringing pressure to bear on the DHS could cause them to move him somewhere much further away. Think Syria. They could also do something much worse." She let that hang in the air. I knew she meant that they might kill him. 
"I'm going to take this letter and scan it now. I want pictures of the two of you, now and later -- we can send out a photographer, but I want to document this as thoroughly as I can tonight, too." 
I went with her into her office to do the scan. I'd expected a stylish, low-powered computer that fit in with her decor, but instead, her spare-bedroom/office was crammed with top-of-the-line PCs, big flat-panel monitors, and a scanner big enough to lay a whole sheet of newsprint on. She was fast with it all, too. I noted with some approval that she was running ParanoidLinux. This lady took her job seriously. 
The computers' fans set up an effective white-noise shield, but even so, I closed the door and moved in close to her. 
"Stranger or no stranger, 't wouldn't make no difference to her. She'd talk to a pump or a grind-stun; she'd talk to herself ruther 'n keep still." 
"What did she talk about?" 
"Blamed if I can repeat any of it. She kep' me so surprised I didn't have my wits about me. She had a little pink sunshade—it kind o' looked like a doll's amberill, 'n' she clung to it like a burr to a woolen stockin'. I advised her to open it up—the sun was so hot; but she said no, 't would fade, an' she tucked it under her dress. 'It's the dearest thing in life to me,' says she, 'but it's a dreadful care.' Them 's the very words, an' it's all the words I remember. 'It's the dearest thing in life to me, but it's an awful care!' "—here Mr. Cobb laughed aloud as he tipped his chair back against the side of the house. 
"There was another thing, but I can't get it right exactly. She was talkin' 'bout the circus parade an' the snake charmer in a gold chariot, an' says she, 'She was so beautiful beyond compare, Mr. Cobb, that it made you have lumps in your throat to look at her.' She'll be comin' over to see you, mother, an' you can size her up for yourself. I don' know how she'll git on with Mirandy Sawyer—poor little soul!" 
"He not coming back here, mon." The man paused and mumbled something to another clerk, then came back on. "Nobody seen him since. You want leave a message, that's okay. But I don't know when—" 
"No." I didn't know what to say. The implication was only gradually sinking in. "No message. Thanks anyway. I'll try back later." 
"Any time, mon. No problem." 
I hung up, trying to stay calm. Steve, where are you? 
Okay, I told myself, you don't actually know something's wrong. It could be anything. Still, it was very worrying. Steve, my one and only . . . 
I was staring at the phone, wondering what my next move should be. Whatever else, I've got to try to reach Lou, tell him I've found Sarah. But then what? He certainly wasn't going to be any help in getting us out. If he blundered his way down here, there was a real chance he'd misread the delicacy of the situation and end up getting us all "disappeared" by the Army. But still, I had to tell him about her. 
I picked up the handset again, keyed in the U.S. country code, and tried the number for his place in Soho. He'd said he was going to be released from St. Vincent's today, so maybe he was home by now. 
"I can't see Rebecca as a lady doctor, somehow," mused Mrs. Cobb. "Her gift o' gab is what's goin' to be the makin' of her; mebbe she'll lecture, or recite pieces, like that Portland elocutionist that come out here to the harvest supper." 
"I guess she'll be able to write down her own pieces," said Mr. Cobb confidently; "she could make 'em up faster 'n she could read 'em out of a book." 
"It's a pity she's so plain looking," remarked Mrs. Cobb, blowing out the candle. 
"PLAIN LOOKING, mother?" exclaimed her husband in astonishment. "Look at the eyes of her; look at the hair of her, an' the smile, an' that there dimple! Look at Alice Robinson, that's called the prettiest child on the river, an' see how Rebecca shines her ri' down out o' sight! I hope Mirandy'll favor her comin' over to see us real often, for she'll let off some of her steam here, an' the brick house'll be consid'able safer for everybody concerned. We've known what it was to hev children, even if 't was more 'n thirty years ago, an' we can make allowances." 
He gave her a look. 
OK, of course you do. But if all you've read is the official history, you'll think he was just a finance guy who made some good bets. It's nothing like it. He played a game against the market, tinkered with the confidence of other traders by taking crazy positions, all bluff, except when they weren't. No one could outsmart him. He could convince you that you were about to miss out on the deal of the century, or that you'd already missed it, or that you were about to walk off onto easy street. Sometimes, he convinced you of something that was real. More often, it was pure bluff, which you'd only find out after you'd done some trade with him that left him with more money than you'd see in your whole life, and you facepalming and cursing yourself for a sucker. When he started doing it to national banks, put a run on the dollar, broke the Fed, well, that's when we all knew that he was someone who was special , someone who could create signals that went right to your hindbrain without any critical interpretation." 
"Trish," he said, then stopped. His arms dropped to his sides and his shoulders slumped. 
"Damian," she said, keeping her voice calm and neutral. 
"God," he said. "God. How'd this happen, Trish? Look, I've never been happy the way I was with you. I haven't been that happy since. God, Trish --" 
"Damian," she said again, taking one of his hands, firmly, motherly. "Damian. Stop it. You're here to do a job, and your job requires that you and I keep it on a professional level. It doesn't matter how it happened --" But it did, didn't it? She'd left him to come east and do something he thought of as wrong-headed and backwards and superstitious. But she'd left him, not the other way around. And he'd never recovered, though she'd built herself a new life here. It wasn't a contest (but she was winning anyway). "It doesn't matter. We respect each other. That's enough." 
He deflated and she said, "Oh, come here," and gave him a long and soulful hug, right there on the street, knowing that she was giving the hug and he was taking it. Then she let him go, spun him round, and gave him a little push back toward his office. 
I arrived in Hollywood a few hours early—the Lancer might already be waiting, and I had to get Martinez out of here the moment she popped...  and let my vision unfocus over the crowds. I’d only met Martinez the one time, but I was reasonably sure I’d still be able to recognize the individual mathematics of her posture and stride to pick her out of the throng. 
The sun set, but the bright cheeriness of enticing storefronts blazing across the street made it as easy to see as in the daytime. I watched and waited. 
At a little before half-past eight, Rita Martinez appeared. 
She had on a shapeless sweater covering bulky layers of clothing and a scarf over her hair, and huge sunglasses that disguised her features. She wandered toward the concert hall, sat down on a bench, and checked her watch. 
I stood and...  my eyes on her. 
Pedestrian traffic flowed by her. She looked around and then checked her watch again. She crossed and uncrossed her ankles. Then, before I was halfway to her, she stood and walked over to the ticket window at the concert hall, handed in some cash, and toddled inside. 
We hurried toward one of the central buildings, a looming white-and-glass edifice that probably housed offices. I took a moment to get my bearings, turning toward the southeast. Yes, this was the one. Perfect. 
“Let’s split up,” I said to Arthur. I gestured toward the far-off flashes of light and movement. “Whatever communications equipment they’ve got is probably that way somewhere, where all the people are. Go do your PI thing, figure out if they’ve got a line to the outside world and how we can get access.” 
He hesitated, and I literally held my breath. 
“Where are you going to be?” 
“I need to jury rig some working hardware. I’m going to look for a server room in a Faraday cage, maybe try to cobble together some unfried equipment.” I was improvising the technobabble, but it sounded good. “Meet me back here on the top floor.” 
Before he could respond, I drove the butt of my rifle through the glass of the door next to me, the pane showering down with a crash. Arthur winced and glanced around, but no alarm sounded. As I’d suspected, security was at least partially down. “Top floor,” I reminded Arthur, and ducked through the broken door. 
But one of its hands was now useless, flopping at its side. It charged her, grappling with her, and she couldn’t get her bar back for a swing. Its good hand was in her hair and it didn’t stink, that was the worst part. It smelled like fresh-baked bread. It smelled like flowers. Zombies smelled delicious . 
The part of her brain that was detached and thinking these thoughts was not the part in the front. That part was incoherent with equal parts rage and terror. The zombie would bite her soon and that would be it. In a day, she’d be a zombie too, in need of medicine, and how many more would she bite before she got cured. 
In that moment, she stopped being angry at the zombie and became angry at the besiegers. They had been abstract enemies until then, an unknowable force from outside her world, but in that moment she realized that they were people like her, who could suffer like her and she wished that they would. She wished that their children would starve. She wished the parents would die. The old people shrivel unto death in their dry, unwatered flats. The toddlers wander the streets until sunburn or cold took them. 
I was going to have to fix it some other way. 
I wished I could talk to Jolu about this. He worked at an Internet Service Provider called Pigspleen Net that had hired him when he was twelve, and he knew way more about the net than I did. If anyone knew how to keep our butts out of jail, it would be him. 
Luckily, Van and Jolu and I were planning...  at our favorite place in the Mission after school. Officially, it was our weekly Harajuku Fun Madness team meeting, but with the game canceled and Darryl gone, it was pretty much just a weekly weep-fest, supplemented by about six phone-calls and IMs a day that went, "Are you OK? Did it really happen?" It would be good to have something else to talk about. 
"You're out of your mind," Vanessa said. "Are you actually, totally, really, for-real crazy or what?" 
She had shown up in her girl's school uniform because she'd been stuck going the long way home, all the way down to the San Mateo bridge then back up into the city, on a shuttle-bus service that her school was operating. She hated being seen in public in her gear, which was totally Sailor Moon -- a pleated skirt and a tunic and knee-socks. She'd been in a bad mood ever since she turned up at the cafe, which was full of older, cooler, mopey emo art students who snickered into their lattes when she turned up. 
Grateful for his genuine kindness, Lexy made no further protest. Side by side they walked down the lane, their footsteps noiseless in the thick dust, and Joe opened the garden gate without a sound. 
“I thought perhaps I could climb up that tree and get in at my window,” Lexy whispered. 
“I’ll do it for you,” said Joe, “and come down and let you in by the back door.” 
He was up the tree like a cat. He went cautiously along a branch, until he could reach the roof of the shed with his toes. He dropped down on the roof, and Lexy saw him disappear into her room. She went to the back door. In a minute she heard the key turn inside, and the door opened. 
“Thank you ever so much, Joe!” she whispered. 
But he paid no attention to her. He stood still, drawing deep breaths of the night air. 
“Them roses!” he said. “The smell of ’em made me kind of sick, like. Throw ’em out, miss! Don’t go to sleep with them roses in the room!” 
Lexy did not answer for a time. 
“I’ll see you to-morrow, Joe,” she said. “I’ll pay you for the taxi, and have a talk with you. And thank you, Joe, ever so much!” 
I had thought it obvious. “She’s going to have Rio kill me,” I said. 
Arthur froze. 
“Well, there might be some torture first or something, but only if Dawna has the stomach to ask for it.” 
He threw up. 
“This is my fault,” Arthur kept mumbling, doubled over and retching. “I—she convinced me, oh, Lord—I listened —why did I listen? Oh, God, I trusted her—” 
“At least we know that once our lovely Dawna Polk seduces someone, she can shove him back the other way if she wants to,” I said. “Congratulations, it looks like you’ve been un-brainwashed. Though if you ever sell out Rio again, I will fucking kill you.” 
His expression was stricken. I wasn’t even sure he heard me. 
I sighed. “Besides, shouldn’t I be the one who gets to freak out here? All you’re doing is having a guilt complex meltdown. I think the impending death thing trumps that.” 
“How can you be—you’re cracking jokes?” He sounded broken. 
“What would you like me to do?” I asked. “Panic?” 
To be honest, I wasn’t sure why I wasn’t panicking. If Dawna had gotten to Rio, well, then he would kill me. But as soon as I had realized the implication of her words, it was as if she’d explained she wanted to set pi equal to three on pain of death and expected me to take it seriously. 
That hadn't been on the front page of the Chronicle, but then, a BART blowout under the water wouldn't be nearly as picturesque as the images of the bridge hanging in tatters and pieces over the Bay. The BART tunnel from the Embarcadero in San Francisco to the West Oakland station was submerged. 
I went back to Dad's computer and surfed the headlines. No one was sure, but the body count was in the thousands. Between the cars that plummeted 191 feet to the sea and the people drowned in the trains, the deaths were mounting. One reporter claimed to have interviewed an "identity counterfeiter" who'd helped "dozens" of people walk away from their old lives by simply vanishing after the attacks, getting new ID made up, and slipping away from bad marriages, bad debts and bad lives. 
Dad actually got tears in his eyes, and Mom was openly crying. They each hugged me again, patting me with their hands as if to assure themselves that I was really there. They kept telling me they loved me. I told them I loved them too. 
He was frowning, his usual skeptical self. "How long—?" 
"It's just for the weekend, or maybe a little . . . I'm not sure exactly. I guess it depends on what kinds of tests he's going to run. But the thing is, I have to do it now, while he and I are still clicking. An 'iron is hot' kind of moment. The only possible problem might be if I have to push back my schedule for looping dialogue for Baby Love and then some­body's out of town." 
"You check with the sound studio to warn them about possible rescheduling?" He wanted to appear to be fuming. But since he'd invited me down to his Tribeca loft at least once every three months, now that I'd finally shown up, he also had a small gleam in his eye. What did that mean? 
"Yes, but I've already spotted most of the work print, and I've made tentative dates for people to come in. In a week and a half. Everything's still on schedule." 
He leaned back on his white couch, as though trying to regroup. It was Saturday morning and I'd already made the appointment to see Alex Goddard. I was going. I probably should have run it by David first, but damnit, it was my life. 
Her newborn infant was sleeping quietly in a crib right next to her, on the opposite side from the table. When I looked closely at him, I finally understood everything. 
I laid her hand back onto the bed and walked around. While the woman watched, I pulled away the stripped red and green coverlet and lifted out her groggy little boy, tender and vulnerable. 
He made a baby's protest as I cradled him, then began sleepily probing my left breast, making me feel...  I whispered, first to him and then to his mother.  
" Tz'ac Tzotz ," the woman said, pointing at him. I could feel her deep, maternal love. 
"His name?" I asked in English, before I thought. 
When Marcelina translated, the woman smiled and nod­ded. 
Then the blond-haired Tz'ac Tzotz started to sniffle, so I kissed him gently, turned, and took the woman's hand again. There was nothing else I could do. 
Tz'ac Tzotz was Sarah incarnate. This was no hallucina­tion. He had her special blue eyes and her steep cheeks, her high brow. I was holding her child. 
There was a moment’s silence. 
“Charles is my name,” he observed. 
Another silence. 
“Queer, isn’t it?” he said seriously. 
“Here we’ve only seen each other once, and yet somehow it seems to me as if I’d known you for years!” 
“Well, the circumstances are rather unusual,” said Lexy. 
“You’re right! But look here—we’ve got to talk about all this. Where were you going?” 
“Back to Mrs. Royce’s.” 
“Let’s go!” he said cheerfully, and picked up the bag as if it were nothing at all. 
“But where were you going?” asked Lexy. 
“To find you. You see, we ran into some awfully bad weather, and the engines broke down, and we came back for repairs; so I got your letters. I explained to the old man that I’d have to have leave, for some very important business, and off I came to Wyngate. Your Mrs. Royce told me you’d gone out to the Queltons’. I didn’t like that. Why did you go there, after what had happened?” 
“I’ll tell you all about that later,” said Lexy; “but now you’ve got to tell me things. How did you ever meet Caroline? How in the world did she manage to write to you?” 
“Yes sir. That’s why I called my aunt, so she’d know I was on my way.” 
“You go to South?” 
“Horizons Technical Academy,” I said, remembering as his face got harder to add, “sir.” 
“How old are you?” 
“nineteen.” There wasn’t any point in lying. If I said I was eigh- teen, they’d check and I’d be busted. For anyone under eighteen, 
the curfew law applied, at least if you were a kid with brown skin in neighborhoods where the color-coded arrest rate was high. 
“Let’s see ID.” 
I retrieved the state photo ID tucked in the back of my phone case. I had gotten it as soon as I turned nineteen because the curfew for fourteen is an hour earlier and I wanted to be able to prove I deserved that extra hour. I hoped he wouldn’t ask me to hand him my phone, because I’d say no and then I’d have hours of hassle. 
I held my breath and tried to look innocent. I was afraid he would punch my name into his laptop and, while I didn’t have any kind of record, it might say I was related to an alleged terrorist and that could lead to complications. 
"If you are tired, poor little Princess, why do you not go into the cool green forest and rest?" asked the Fairy Godmother. 
"Because I have no time," she answered. "I must go back to my plough." 
"Is that your plough leaning by the tree, and is it not too heavy?" 
"It is heavy," answered the Princess, "but I love to turn the hard earth into soft furrows and know that I am making good soil wherein my seeds may grow. When I feel the weight too much, I try to think of the harvest." 
The golden chariot passed on, and the two talked no more together that day; nevertheless the King's messengers were busy, for they whispered one word into the ear of the Fairy Godmother and another into the ear of the Princess, though so faintly that neither of them realized that the King had spoken. 
The next morning a strong man knocked at the cottage door, and doffing his hat to the Princess said: "A golden chariot passed me yesterday, and one within it flung me a purse of ducats, saying: 'Go out into the King's Highway and search until you find a cottage and a heavy plough leaning against a tree near by. Enter and say to the Princess whom you will find there: "I will guide the plough and you must go and rest, or walk in the cool green forest; for this is the command of your Fairy Godmother."'" 
"Drives you to colonize new lands, to ask out the beautiful monkey in the next tree, to have a baby you can't imagine how you'll afford." 
"And your numerate Vulcans stopped?" 
"Pretty much," he said. "But that's just normal shakedown. Like when people move to cities, their birthrate drops. And nevertheless, the human race is becoming more and more citified and still, it isn't vanishing. Social stuff takes time." 
"And then your friend beat your head in?" 
"Stop saying that." 
Leon stood. "Maybe I should go and find Ria." 
Viktor made a disgusted noise. "Fine. And ask her why she didn't finish the job? Ask her if she decided to do it right then, or if she'd planned it? Ask her why...  of the bread-knife? Because, you know, I wonder this myself." 
Leon backpedaled, clumsy in the overinflated suit. He struggled to get into the airlock, and as it hissed through its cycle, he tried not to think of Ria straddling the old...  falling. 
She was waiting for him on the other side, also overinflated in her suit. "Let's go," she said, and took his hand, the rubberized palms of their gloves sticking together. She half-dragged him through the many rooms of Viktor's body, tripping through the final door, then spinning him around and ripping, hard, on the release cord that split the suit down the back so that it fell into two lifeless pieces that slithered to the ground. He gasped out a breath he hadn't realized he'd been holding in as the cool air made contact with the thin layer of perspiration that filmed his body. 
Pulling aside my bed shift, I gazed in disbelief at my lower abdomen. There were red spots just above my pale blue pant­ies. 
Alex Goddard modestly averted his eyes. "I didn't want to say anything," he explained to the wall above my head, "but you were in pretty delicate shape there for a while. Mild convulsions, and I think your digestive system had gone into shock. The stomach is a center of energy, because it's constantly active. So I gave you some shots of muscle relaxant. Nothing serious. It's an unusual treatment, but I've found it works. It . . . modulates the energy flows. I also took a blood sample for some tests, but the results were all normal." 
He then asked me about my menstrual cycle, exact days, saying he wanted to make sure it wasn't just routine cramps. "The seizure you had passed almost as soon as it came, but you might actually have been hallucinating a bit. You had a slight fever all night." 
"Well . . ." Something like that had happened to me years ago in rural Japan, when I stupidly ate some unwashed greens and my stomach went into shock. At one point a local doctor, Chinese, was trying acupuncture, which also left me sore. 
Then I glanced down again at the tray. "And what's in that...  so I've had Marcelina prepare you a healthy broth of soy extract and buckwheat and rainforest herbs that—" 
"What kind of rainforest herbs exactly?" I was starving, but no way in hell "Medicinal ones. Part of your program of wholeness." He turned, with that faraway look of his, and opened the window slats. Beyond them I could see foliage, now alive with flocks of multicolored birds. The forest was in full cry. "You know, so many drugs are waiting to be discovered up here." He was gazing out. "Beyond this window is a giant pharmacy, but if it goes like the rest of the Peten, it'll soon be bulldozed to make way for more cattle ranches." 
He came back and picked up the syringe. That was when I noticed it didn't seem to be entirely empty. It appeared to contain traces of a yellow substance, though maybe I was imagining. . . . 
"Look, about the blood test. I don't think—" 
"Consider it a free medical screening." He firmly gripped my arm as he plunged the needle into a vein. Seconds later he was capping off the syringe, red with my blood. "I'm running a batch of tests this afternoon, so one more sample won't make any difference." 
And the thing that kills him is that it's better this way. It has to be this way. He's required to make it be this way and encourage her to believe it, that it's partially her fault. Because the job demands of him that he not tell her the truth, that he not tell her that her brother is a legitimate suspect until further notice, that he's in the middle of all this tragedy trying to put the pieces together. 
He just wants to scream. 
"I'll see you again," he promises, hoping that she believes him. 
It's all he can do.   Given the change in his operating status, Ray knows it's time to contact his superiors and file one of the dreaded progress reports upon which bureaucracies thrive. Doing this always constitutes a big, throbbing pain in his ass. As a Marine, he once thought he'd learned everything he would ever need to know about making reports-traditional progress reports, sortie deconstructions, standard debriefing notes, after-action analyses. 
Reports were things you wrestled into submission using a nub of a pencil, a digital thesaurus and eventually a battered typewriter or ancient PC with a wobbling graphical display. You busted your ass to get them just right, even though you suspected that whatever bits of paper you generated were going to get filed somewhere by some enlisted clerk who wouldn't bother to read it or pass along to someone who might want to know the details that a report even existed. If you participated in a particularly brilliant mission or wrote an absolutely sparkling and evocative report, it might be looked at, hummed over, scanned into a secure database... and then languish, unread, as a collection of indiscriminate binary units. 
Ray frowns, serious. "Is it always this hard? To catch them, I mean." 
It's a question that's been nagging him for days. He wonders if he's been missing something, if he's been too  focused on Emma and whatever it is between them and made the murder just a footnote in his personal history. How did we meet? Oh, I was under deep cover trying to interdict a ring of political insurgents and managed to get tied up in a murder investigation. I busted her brother, whacked his psycho political cronies. 
One thing led to another, and here we are? Funny how life works, huh? 
"Catching them is usually the easy part," Becker says. "It's trying to understand what they thought was so important that it was worth taking someone else's life that's hard. But I guess you know something about that, 
don't you? How a person rationalizes killing." 
Ray looks at him, blinking, uncertain about what he might mean. He has the feeling he's supposed to say something like Wow, I never thought about it that way before, but it seems like too much effort. He simply lets it pass. 
She stopped and picked up one of the infants out of its bassinet, then turned back to me, her eyes turning soft as she hugged it the way she might a small puppy. "Isn't this one cute? I'd so love to have him." 
Was she on some kind of drug that suppressed curiosity? I found myself wondering as I panned the camera around the room. There must have been at least twenty bassinets, all just alike, wicker with a white lace hood. A couple of the babies were sniffling, and the one Tara had picked up now began crying outright, much to her annoyance. The room itself smelled like baby powder. 
"And then what happens?" I asked finally, zooming in on one of the women. 
"What happens when?" Now Tara was twirling in a circle, humming futilely to the shrieking child. "You mean, after they come here?" 
"Right." God, getting answers from her was making me crazy. 
"The girls here take them to their new mothers." Her eyes had turned even more dreamy as she lightly bounced the bawling bundle she was holding one last time, after which she returned it to its bassinet. Then she gazed around the room. "It's so sad to see them leave." 
"I love Captain Shadow." 
She gives him an impenetrable look, blinking slowly. 
"Run pirates, run pirates, run pirates, hey!." He sings along with the theme music, grinning. He and Little B used to do this every day after school. "Run Carok, fast as you may! But Shadow's gonna get you anyway!" 
Emma says, "Oh my god." 
"What? Everybody knows Captain Shadow." 
It isn't just Emma staring at him. A dozen heads turn his direction, a dozen sets of wide eyes. Ray can't tell if he's just amazed them with his video trivia aplomb or his weird old guy stupidity. The kid nearest to him, 
probably seven or eight, dark hair and pale, sickly complexion, peers up at him through lidded eyes. 
"You like Captain Shadow?" 
"Duh," Ray shoots back. "Which one is this?" 
"The one where Carok tries to blow up the colony's shield generator by sneaking up through the caves." 
Ray makes a sour face, rolls his eyes. "Ugh. After Shadow added Godara Jengo to the crew? I hate him. He's such a loser, and he's not very funny. " 
Benny said, “You died in UNATS. Killed by modified Eurasian Social Harmony robots. Lenny, too. Ironic,” he said. 
She shook her head. “He means that we probably co-designed the robots that Social Harmony sent after you.” 
“Natty?” Arturo said again. Ada was white and shaking. 
“Oh dear,” she said. “Oh, God. You didn’t know—” 
“He didn’t give you a chance to explain,” Benny said. 
“Oh, God, Jesus, you must have thought—” 
“I didn’t think it was my place to tell them, either,” Benny said, sounding embarrassed, a curious emotion for a robot. 
“Oh, God. Artie, Ada. There are—there are lots of me. One of the first things I did here was help them debug the uploading process. You just put a copy of yourself into a positronic brain, and then when you need a body, you grow one or build one or both and decant yourself into it. I’m like Lenny and Benny now—there are many of me. There’s too much work to do otherwise.” 
“I told you that our development helped humans understand themselves,” Benny said. 
Some of the people groaned. It sounded melodramatic and stupid. 
I got back to my feet. 
"When the bombs went off," I said, then something welled up in my chest, something painful. "When the bombs went off, there were four of us caught up by Market Street. For whatever reason, the DHS decided that made us suspicious. They put bags over our heads, put us on a ship and interrogated us for days. They humiliated us. Played games with our minds. Then they let us go. 
"All except one person. My best friend. He was with us when they picked us up. He'd been hurt and he needed medical care. He never came out again. They say they never saw him. They say that if we ever tell anyone about this, they'll arrest us and make us disappear. 
"Forever." 
I was shaking. The shame. The goddamned shame. Jolu had the light on me. 
"Oh Christ," I said. "You people are the first ones I've told. If this story gets around, you can bet they'll know who leaked it. You can bet they'll come knocking on my door." I took some more deep breaths. "That's why I volunteered on the Xnet. That's why my life, from now on, is about fighting the DHS. With every breath. Every day. Until we're free again. Any one of you could put me in jail now, if you wanted to." 
Okay, I admit I wasn’t any better than the activists who looked disgusted by somebody who was actually poor. I felt kind of bad about it, but so far as I could tell he didn’t give a damn about the opinion of anyone there, including me. 
I looked to see if the cops had noticed the exchange. One was eyeing the man, but lazily, on the automatic pilot that tells cops to track homeless people who might act up. The other officers were all standing at ease in that totally stiff stance, inscrutable behind their dark glasses. 
I wheeled my bike to the street. From the edge of the crowd, I heard a piercing whistle. “Hey, wait!” I decided to pretend I hadn’t heard the shouted command and kept going. It almost worked. I was feeling for the pedal when somebody grabbed the back of my jacket. I jerked my elbow back to dislodge the hand. “Whoa. Zen, 
it’s me.” 
Monica, I realized. Monica and Mexican Guy. She looked pretty, with her cheeks all rosy. He...  open in surprise. “I’m sorry. I didn’t mean to startle you,” 
“When did Caroline go?” she pondered, continuing her own miserable train of thought. “While I was doing cross words in the library? If she went out by the front door, she must have gone right past the library. She must have known I was there—and not even to say good-by!” 
It hurt. She had grown very fond of the shy, quiet Caroline, and she had firmly believed that Caroline was fond of her. What is more, she had thought Caroline trusted her. 
“She didn’t though. All the time, when we were so friendly together, she must have been planning this and— what ?” 
She stopped short, her dark brows meeting in a fierce frown, for the unknown man had come up beside her and spoken to her. 
“Excuse me!” he said. 
Lexy only looked at him, but he did not wither and perish under her scorn. 
“I’ve got to speak to you,” he said. 
“It’s—look here! I’ve been waiting outside the house all morning. Look here, please! You’re Lexy, aren’t you?” 
This was a little too much! 
“If you don’t stop bothering me this instant—” she began hotly, but he paid no heed. 
“No one can keep me in a box. They catch me, they’ll take me to Halliday, I’ll get us both out. Easy as pie.” 
“No. No, no, no, no, no. I don’t mean to rain on your frankly impossible skill set here, but even you can’t always bust your way out in a second once you get locked in a cell. You’ve admitted it before! There are so many ways this can go wrong, starting with, what if we make you a lure as bait and they just kill you instead of taking you in? Or what if they kill Professor Sonya because they think they don’t need her once they have you? Or what if—” 
“We’ll just stall them on the math until I can figure a way out,” I said. “And you can drop the electronic hints so they’ll think they still need the professor. I have total faith in you.” 
His mouth worked. “I am not in favor of this idea!” 
“Tough,” I said. 
“Goddammit. Where’s Arthur? Where’s Pilar? Where is some sanity? Why am I constantly surrounded by people who want to throw their lives down as martyrs? I’m not going to help you become—” 
Dad looked hard at me, like he suspected I was up to something, then nodded. I said goodnight to them and went up to my room. I fired up my Xbox and opened a word-processor and started to brainstorm ideas for my papers. Why not? It really was better than sitting around at home. 
I ended up IMing with Ange for quite a while that night. She was sympathetic about everything and told me she'd help me with my papers if I wanted to meet her after school the next night. I knew where her school was -- she went to the same school as Van -- and it was all the way over in the East Bay, where I hadn't visited since the bombs went. 
I was really excited at the prospect of seeing her again. Every night since the party, I'd gone to bed thinking of two things: the sight of the crowd charging the police lines and the feeling of the side of her breast under her shirt as we leaned against the pillar. She was amazing. I'd never been with a girl as...aggressive as her before. It had always been me putting the moves on and them pushing me away. I got the feeling that Ange was as much of a horn-dog as I was. It was a tantalizing notion. 
“Give me a gun,” I said. 
Pilar pulled out her little CZ and handed it to me. Keeping it pointed down, I noticed. Arthur must have talked to her. 
I took the safety off and tucked it in my belt. “We’ll be fine. There’s nobody after us anymore, unless the NSA decides to live up to their reputation.” 
“Think they got what they wanted,” Arthur said softly. “Ain’t think they’re interested in you. You’re not important to ’em.” 
Something in my chest eased. Not that I thought Arthur would have given me away, but still. “Thanks.” 
Pilar helped me fall into the passenger seat of Arthur’s rental and then went around to drive, taking a moment to pull the seat all the way forward and adjust the mirrors before she got started. “Where to?” 
I thought for a minute. If the NSA was still tracking us, I didn’t want to give away any of my bolt holes. “Checker’s, if he’s okay with it. Arthur’s doctor can meet us there.” 
Pilar looped on a phone headset and called Checker first—he said to get our butts over to him right now before I keeled over dead (his words, as relayed by Pilar). Then she called someone who was presumably Arthur’s doctor friend. “Hi, this is Pilar Velasquez—yes, with Arthur. Yes, everything’s okay. We need your help, though—do you remember Cas Russell?” 
They had a little table between them with the contents of my wallet and backpack spread out on it. 
"Hello, Marcus," Severe Haircut woman said. "We have some questions for you." 
"Am I under arrest?" I asked. This wasn't an idle question. If you're not under arrest, there are limits on what the cops can and can't do to you. For starters, they can't hold you forever without arresting you, giving you a phone call, and letting you talk to a lawyer. And hoo-boy, was I ever going to talk to a lawyer. 
"What's this for?" she said, holding up my phone. The screen was showing the error message you got if you kept trying to get into its data without giving the right password. It was a bit of a rude message -- an animated hand giving a certain universally recognized gesture -- because I liked to customize my gear. 
"Am I under arrest?" I repeated. They can't make you answer any questions if you're not under arrest, and when you ask if you're under arrest, they have to answer you. It's the rules. 
"Yes," Ethan said. "I typed roughly fifteen million words." 
"Nowadays, of course, no one types. It's all talking to computers now. When I was a girl, they all said that you'd always have a job if you just learned to type. Times sure change, don't they?" 
"Yes," Ethan and Grampa said together. Grampa startled like he'd been shocked. 
"Dad's coming tomorrow?" Sean said. 
Grampa said, "Yes. He's catching the 6 AM. He'll be here by 10." 
"Isn't that nice ," Adele said. 
They left Grampa and Ethan sitting at the table together. Sean looked back over his shoulder before they got on the elevator, and Grampa was still switched on, staring hard at him. 
"You must be excited about seeing your father again," Adele said to him when they were sitting around the pool. 
Sean was getting the hang of talking to Adele. "Ethan and my grandfather seem to be hitting it off." 
"Oh, I certainly hope so! Ethan could use some friends at that place." 
Sean pictured the two of them, seated across from each other at the ward table, running maintenance routines at each other, saying, "Yes," "Yes." Unbidden, a grin came to Sean's face. 
“I was talking to Marita. Your baby is really cute.” 
He frowned, but after a moment he bumped Simon’s arm and gestured for another beer. It felt like I had passed a test. I found the button on the shirt to film some more, trying to keep an imagi- nary line straight between the top button of my shirt and the faces that needed to be on the film. 
By this time Tweak and Simon were sharing a fat spliff and gig- gling about nothing. I prodded them with questions about poli- tics. It set off a competition to see who was more dangerous. 
“When I was a kid,” Simon said. “We got some sticks of dyna- mite once? We were going to blow up a public toilet in a park just for the hell of it, but the guy who stashed it in his closet didn’t hide it good. His dad reported him to the police.” 
“Man, where I grew up, we used dynamite all the time,” Danny bragged. “I set charges when I was eleven..” 
“What were you doing with all that dynamite?” I asked. 
“Blowing up stumps. I grew up on a farm. My uncle was so good at it he went into building demolition. Gave me lessons on how to bring buildings down. There’s an art to it.” 
I picked up the handset again, keyed in the U.S. country code, and tried the number for his place in Soho. He'd said he was going to be released from St. Vincent's today, so maybe he was home by now. 
The familiar ring jangled half a dozen times and then . . . 
"Crenshaw residence." It was the Irish tones of Mrs. Reilly, Sarah's day nurse. Hallelujah. I guessed she was there now taking care of Lou. 
"Uh, this is Morgan James. Mr. Crenshaw's niece. Remember? I came by. Is he home yet? I need to talk to him." 
"He's resting, dear. I was just about to go out and get...  the like." 
"So . . . dare I ask? How is he?" 
"He's weak, but I think he's going to be fine. If people will just let him be." 
"Look, I hate to bother him, but it's really an emergency. I'm calling from Guatemala." 
"Oh. I truly don't know if he's awake, dear. He was nap­ping a while ago." 
"Could you . . . could you go and see? Please. And take the phone?" 
"Just a minute." She sounded reluctant, but I could hear her movements as she shuffled across the loft. I listened, wondering how long Alex Goddard was going to be away, and then a moment later . . . 
I slouched in my chair. “So we’re back to square one.” 
“Not so fast, Cas Russell,” Checker crowed. “You gave me a photo! Do you have any idea what I can do with a photo? If she doesn’t show up in a DMV photo, or a passport photo, or on a private security ID or a student ID or in a high school yearbook photo—well, it doesn’t matter, because as we speak I am tracking her from your meet.” He gave me another manic grin. “See? You can never disappear from me!” And then, God help me, he threw back his head and gave a textbook evil laugh. 
“You’re a maniac,” Tresting said with affection. 
“Really?” Checker was still grinning. “What gave it away?” 
To be honest, I was getting slightly uncomfortable with the knowledge the little hacker had my photograph and voiceprint now, but there wasn’t much I could do about it. I tried to stay focused on the case. “Okay. What can we do in the meantime?” 
Tresting stretched, yawning. “Wait and get some sleep? Unless you know of anything else we can pursue.” 
Sean gave Adele a ride the next day. She wore the sunhat and a lightweight cotton dress and sandals, and looked frail and quaint. 
Sean thought Adele would get off at a different floor, to visit Ethan, but she walked with him across Grampa's ward. 
Grampa was sitting just where he had been the day before. His chin was shaved blue, and he was impeccable. He was methodically slicing and eating a hamburger. 
"Grampa," Sean said. 
"Hello, Sean," Grampa said. He laid his knife and fork in a precise X on his plate and pushed it aside. 
"This is Adele. Her son is in the zero-function ward. She wanted to meet you. Adele, this is my grandfather, Brice Devick." 
"Pleased to meet you, Adele," Grampa said, and shook her hand. 
"Likewise," she said. "Do you know my Ethan? I'm worried that he doesn't seem to have any friends here." 
"I haven't met him," Grampa said. 
"Well, would you do an old lady a big favor? Go and visit him. Your grandson tells me you're smart -- Ethan is as smart as a whip. You two should have lots to talk about." 
"Near? Why, it must be thousands of miles! We came from Temperance in the cars. Then we drove a long ways to cousin Ann's and went to bed. Then we got up and drove ever so far to Maplewood, where the stage was. Our farm is away off from everywheres, but our school and meeting house is at Temperance, and that's only two miles. Sitting up here with you is most as good as climbing the meeting-house steeple. I know a boy who's been up on our steeple. He said the people and cows looked like flies. We haven't met any people yet, but I'm KIND of disappointed in the cows;—they don't look so little as I hoped they would; still (brightening) they don't look quite as big as if we were down side of them, do they? Boys always do the nice splendid things, and girls can only do the nasty dull ones that get left over. They can't climb so high, or go so far, or stay out so late, or run so fast, or anything." 
Mr. Cobb wiped his mouth on the back of his hand and gasped. He had a feeling that he was being hurried from peak to peak of a mountain range without time to take a good breath in between. 
"She seems to be turnin' out smart enough lately, but she's consid'able heedless," answered Miranda, "an' most too lively." 
"We must remember that it is deficient, not excessive vitality, that makes the greatest trouble in this world," returned Mr. Burch. 
"She'd make a wonderful missionary," said Mrs. Burch; "with her voice, and her magnetism, and her gift of language." 
"If I was to say which of the two she was best adapted for, I'd say she'd make a better heathen," remarked Miranda curtly. 
"My sister don't believe in flattering children," hastily interpolated Jane, glancing toward Mrs. Burch, who seemed somewhat shocked, and was about to open her lips to ask if Rebecca was not a "professor." 
Mrs. Cobb had been looking for this question all the evening and dreading some allusion to her favorite as gifted in prayer. She had taken an instantaneous and illogical dislike to the Rev. Mr. Burch in the afternoon because he called upon Rebecca to "lead." She had seen the pallor creep into the girl's face, the hunted look in her eyes, and the trembling of the lashes on her cheeks, and realized the ordeal through which she was passing. Her prejudice against the minister had relaxed under his genial talk and presence, but feeling that Mrs. Burch was about to tread on dangerous ground, she hastily asked her if one had to change cars many times going from Riverboro to Syria. She felt that it was not a particularly appropriate question, but it served her turn. 
I'm always a little hyper about sound, so I'd asked Tony Wills, who handled recording, to also come down the pre­vious day and record the "tone" of the living room, the sound when there is no sound, in order to have it available for ed­iting. Today he'd run the boom mike and be assisted by Sherry Moran, his latest girlfriend, who was mixer/recordist. For Carly's makeup and hair, I had Arlene Morris, an old friend from all the way back to my early days as an AD on the soaps. . . . 
I rang Carly's bell and she buzzed me right up. 
She doubtless had a closet full of Donna Karan suits, but she came to the door in pre-faded jeans and a striped sweater. 
A successful publicity agent, she was petite, with dark hair and eyes and an obvious don't-bug-me take on life. 
"Come on in. My nanny's here to help keep Kevin out of the way." She was sounding like she'd gotten her old spunk back, or so it seemed at first. "I've completely cleared the living room." 
I looked around the place, now a vision of setup pandemonium. "You're sure this is all right?" 
I pictured her in her messy kitchen, holding the handset to the old fashioned phone attached to the wall, the spiral cord getting tan- gled in her falling-down hairdo. “I’m afraid I have no news about your brother.” 
“I just have some general questions.” 
“Such as?” 
“Um, maybe we shouldn’t do this over the phone.” 
She heaved a sigh. “How very dramatic. Well, if you...  team is meeting, I can give you five min- utes.” She gave me an address on Hennepin, and when I finally got the phone working and hiked over to Uptown I discovered who- ever chose the location for the meeting must have had a sense of humor. The cafe’s name was in big flickering neon letters over the door:...  my bike outside, stomped off some of the cruddy snow from my boots, and went in, finding a group of eight people clus- tered around laptops...  one were young and looked like preppy college students. The other one was old, but I almost didn’t...  hair was pinned up in a tidy twist at the back of her head and instead of a dirty cardigan, she wore a fancy-looking suit and a string of pearls. 
Sean's father stared right through her, at Sean. "It's an obvious question, I know, but what are you doing here?" 
"It's my thesis," Sean said, and floored the rental, headed for the Home. 
"Whee!" Adele said. 
"How's Grampa?" Sean's father asked. 
"Oh, he's delightful," Adele said. "We introduced him to my Ethan yesterday, and they're getting along famously. Sean, introduce me to your charming father, please." 
"Dad," Sean said, through grit teeth, "This is Adele. Adele, my father, Mitch. We were thinking of getting day-passes for Grampa and Ethan and taking them to Universal. You ever been to Universal, Dad? I hear you come down here a lot." His normally fragmented attention was as focused as a laser, boring into his father through the rear-view. 
His father's stern face refused to expose any of his confusion. "I don't think I want to go to Universal," he said. 
"Oh, but it's wonderful ," Adele gushed. "You shouldn't knock it until you've tried it." 
"I don't think so," Sean's father repeated. "What's your thesis?" 
“Caroline?” he cried. “What do you mean? It couldn’t have been Caroline!” 
Lexy gave him a very brief, very bare account of Caroline’s narrative. 
“Oh!” he said, when she had done; and again there was silence for a time. “Does she still want to go on with the thing—marrying me, I mean?” he asked finally, in a queer, flat tone. 
“No,” said Lexy pleasantly. “No—she does not.” 
“Oh!” he said again, with undisguised relief. “Well, then—it’s all right, then!” 
“You don’t seem to be much surprised,” said Lexy. “Don’t you think it’s the most extraordinary story you ever heard?” 
“Well, you see—I’m a bit tired,” he explained. “I haven’t grasped it all yet; only, if she doesn’t want to marry me now, Lexy, dear, will you?” 
At last Lexy could do what she had longed to do for the last half hour—she could stroke down his ruffled hair. 
And this, as far as they were concerned, was the last act and the fitting climax of the play. They were ready now for the curtain to rise upon another play; but there were other people not so young, or not so sturdy, for whom the first drama was not so readily dismissed. 
“After all,” he said, “I’m not a beggar. I can hold my own pretty well in the world, and I could look after a wife.” 
“I know it!” cried Lexy, with vehemence. She felt curiously touched by his words, and quite indignant against the Enderbys and any one else who did not appreciate him. 
“I asked Caroline to marry me,” he went on. “I told her I couldn’t give her much, but we could have had a jolly sort of life. Look here! Are you crying?” 
“A little bit,” Lexy admitted; “but don’t pay any attention to it. Go on!” 
“That’s about all there is. She said she would meet me here in Wyngate, because that’s the nearest station of the main line to some little place where a nurse or a governess of hers lived.” 
“Miss Craigie!” 
“Never heard the name. Anyhow, she wanted to go there after we got married, and—I wish you wouldn’t look like that!” 
“But I’m so awfully sorry for you!” 
“It was pretty hard, at first,” he said; “but—well, you see, I’ve thought a bit about it, and after all I’m glad we didn’t get married.” 
"I work with Marcus on the Xnet," she said. "Do you need to know my name?" 
"Not right now, I don't," Barbara said. "You can be anonymous if you'd like. Marcus, I asked you to tell me this story because I need to know how it plays with the story you told me about your friend Darryl and the note you showed me. I can see how it would be a good adjunct; I could pitch this as the origin of the Xnet. 'They made an enemy they'll never forget,' that sort of thing. But to be honest, I'd rather not have to tell that story if I don't have to. 
"I'd rather have a nice clean tale about the secret prison on our doorstep, without having to argue about whether the prisoners there are the sort of people likely to walk out the doors and establish an underground movement bent on destabilizing the federal government. I'm sure you can understand that." 
I did. If the Xnet was part of the story, some people would say, see, they need to put guys like that in jail or they'll start a riot. 
"This is your show," I said. "I think you need to tell the world about Darryl. When you do that, it's going to tell the DHS that I've gone public and they're going to go after me. Maybe they'll figure out then that I'm involved with the Xnet. Maybe they'll connect me to M1k3y. I guess what I'm saying is, once you publish about Darryl, it's all over for me no matter what. I've made my peace with that." 
I was shaking. The shame. The goddamned shame. Jolu had the light on me. 
"Oh Christ," I said. "You people are the first ones I've told. If this story gets around, you can bet they'll know who leaked it. You can bet they'll come knocking on my door." I took some more deep breaths. "That's why I volunteered on the Xnet. That's why my life, from now on, is about fighting the DHS. With every breath. Every day. Until we're free again. Any one of you could put me in jail now, if you wanted to." 
Ange put her hand up again. "We're not going to rat on you," she said. "No way. I know pretty much everyone here and I can promise you that. I don't know how to know who to trust, but I know who not to trust: old people. Our parents. Grownups. When they think of someone being spied on, they think of someone else , a bad guy. When they think of someone being caught and sent to a secret prison, it's someone else -- someone brown, someone young, someone foreign. 
"They forget what it's like to be our age. To be the object of suspicion all the time ! How many times have you gotten on the bus and had every person on it give you a look like you'd been gargling turds and skinning puppies? 
"Brutal." 
He wondered if he'd overstepped himself. Who cared? 
"Brutal doesn't mean untrue. It's like, it's like the money that came into this place, it became autonomous, turned into a strategy for multiplying itself. A bad strategy. The money wants to sell something to a monster, but the money doesn't know what monsters want, so it's just, what, beating its brains out on the wall. One day, the money runs out and..." 
"The money won't run out," Brautigan said. "Wrong. We'd have to spend at ten-ex what we're burning now to even approach the principal." 
"OK," Leon said. "So it's immortal. That's better?" 
Brautigan winced. "Look, it's not so crazy. There's an entire unserved market out there. No one's serving it. They're like, you know, like Communist countries. Planned economies. They need something, they just acquire the capacity. No market." 
"Hey, bub, I know just what you need! You need a house to go with this doorknob!" To his own surprise, Leon discovered that he did a passable Daffy Duck. Brautigan blinked at him. Leon realized that the man was a little drunk. "Just something I heard the other day," he said. "I told the lady from my monster that we could provide the stuff that their corporate culture precluded. I was thinking of you know, how the samurai banned firearms. We can think and do the unthinkable and undo-able." 
“Cas, I have been trying, to the best of my ability, to keep you out of this.” 
“ Why?” 
“These people are not to be trifled with.” 
“I’m very good at trifling,” I said. 
“I’m serious.” 
“So am I.” 
“Cas, believe me when I say that you are not prepared to deal with them.” 
First Arthur, now Rio. Did everyone think I was a child? “I’ve already beaten them,” I reminded him. “Several times.” 
“You have not been their focus. And you have been lucky.” He took a quiet breath. “Please, Cas. Stay out of this.” 
I felt myself frowning. Rio had never made a request like that of me before. “You’re the one who told me to go consult with Tresting,” I pointed out. 
“To be perfectly honest, I had no idea he would prove so competent.” 
“So you tried to send me on a wild goose chase.” 
“Yes.” 
“Why?” 
“I told you, Cas. Pithica is far too dangerous. You now know part of the reason why.” 
“So it’s true, about Dawna.” I swallowed against a dry throat. “She can do that—she did do that, to me.” 
“Yes.” 
“How much can she do?” 
trying to empty my head, trying not to think or feel. Eventually I turned off my phone and went back to looking for the bug in my code. When I pulled back the cover to get into bed around four a.m. the phone fell to the floor. I stuck it in a drawer and went to sleep. 
A few days passed before I turned my phone on again and read the messages Wheeze had left. 
<wheeze> Are you okay? 
<wheeze> I think I misunderstood something. 
I won't visit unless you want. 
<wheeze> I think of you as someone who's so fierce and brave that I forget you have feel- ings and I think I hurt them somehow. I don't know if you had anything to do with what hap- pened with Simon Meyer, but if I triggered bad memories, I'm sorry. 
I had to take a deep breath. Then before I could have second thoughts I started typing. 
<zen> It's not that. 
<zen> Okay, first, I like you a lot. Insert mushy stuff here. Just so you know. I always liked you, but I didn't know how much until you were in that shed and I had to find you and I wasn't sure if I could do it in time. 
"There's a person we want to find. A person who's left the country, apparently headed for Mexico. She knows certain things that are, as of today, classified. She needs to be briefed on her new responsibilities." 
Greg stood up. "I'm not going to find Maya for you." He pulled on his jacket. 
"There are plenty of people here who will. It's up to you, though. You can work here with her, being productive, or you can find out just how rotten life can get -- while she works here, being productive with your co-workers." 
Greg stared at him, his hands balled into fists. 
"Come on," the rumpled man said. "Greg, we both know how this goes. When you said yes to me in your kitchen, you lost the option of saying no. It's not so bad, is it? Who would you rather have doing the nation's intelligence: you and your pals here in the Valley, or a bunch of straight-edge code-grinders in Virginia?" 
Greg turned on his heel and left. He made it all the way to the parking lot before he stopped and kicked a wall so hard he felt something give way in his foot. 
"What—?" 
"The American consulate in Merida, Mexico, sent it up to 26 Federal Plaza yesterday, because my name and office address are penciled on the inside cover as an emergency contact. The police down there said somebody, some gringo...  the Usumacinta River, near where the Rio Tigre comes in from Guatemala, snagged this floating in a plastic bag. He turned it in to the Mexican authorities there, and it ended up with our people." He opened the passport and stared at it. "The photo and ID page is ripped out, but it's definitely Sarah's." He handed it over. "Guy I know downtown dropped it off last night. I'm not sure if it has anything to tell us, but now, I was hoping it might help jog her memory." 
I took it, the cover so waterlogged its color was almost gone. However, it must have been kept dry in the plastic bag for at least some of its trip from wherever, since much of the damage seemed recent. 
Lou shook his head staring wistfully at me. "I still don't know how she got down there. She was in California. Re­member that postcard? If she'd come back East, she'd have got in touch. Wouldn't she?" His eyes pleaded for my agree­ment. 
"It is coming, Emmie," she said presently; "do you remember in The Mill on the Floss, when Maggie Tulliver closed the golden gates of childhood behind her? I can almost see them swing; almost hear them clang; and I can't tell whether I am glad or sorry." 
"I shouldn't care how they swung or clanged," said Emma Jane, "if only you and I were on the same side of the gate; but we shan't be, I know we shan't!" 
"Emmie, don't dare to cry, for I'm just on the brink myself! If only you were graduating with me; that's my only sorrow! There! I hear the rumble of the wheels! People will be seeing our grand surprise now! Hug me once for luck, dear Emmie; a careful hug, remembering our butter-muslin frailty!" 
Ten minutes later, Adam Ladd, who had just arrived from Portland and was wending his way to the church, came suddenly into the main street and stopped short under a tree by the wayside, riveted to the spot by a scene of picturesque loveliness such as his eyes had seldom witnessed before. The class of which Rebecca was president was not likely to follow accepted customs. Instead of marching two by two from the seminary to the church, they had elected to proceed thither by royal chariot. A haycart had been decked with green vines and bunches of long-stemmed field daisies, those gay darlings of New England meadows. Every inch of the rail, the body, even the spokes, all were twined with yellow and green and white. There were two white horses, flower-trimmed reins, and in the floral bower, seated on maple boughs, were the twelve girls of the class, while the ten boys marched on either side of the vehicle, wearing buttonhole bouquets of daisies, the class flower. 
“Small influences that can drive people to murder?” 
“For an act that defies her target’s psychology in the extreme, it is true that it would take her time, not a single conversation. Months, perhaps, depending on the person she targets.” 
“But you’re saying even a strong enough person can’t—” 
“Strength does not enter into it,” he corrected. “It is—I suppose you would say psychology. What you would call a weaker mind might prevail for longer, simply because it may be more comfortable with the mental contradictions her influence would produce. Or it might fold immediately. Each psychology is unique, and each will itself respond differently according to what she attempts.” 
“And there’s no way to fight it?” I pleaded. 
“None that I am aware of.” 
I pulled the blanket from the bed up around myself again, wrapping it close. I still felt cold. “How can I know if I’ve been affected?” 
“It is nearly impossible to tell, because you will rationalize whatever she has made you believe. You are concerned?” 
"He's going to be the best of us all." 
"I hope you don't slight things in the kitchen because I ain't there. Do...  it upside down on the winder-sill?" 
"Yes, aunt Miranda." 
"It's always 'yes' with you, and 'yes' with Jane," groaned Miranda, trying to move her stiffened body; "but all the time I lay here knowin' there's things done the way I don't like 'em." 
There was a long pause, during which Rebecca sat down by the bedside and timidly touched her aunt's hand, her heart swelling with tender pity at the gaunt face and closed eyes. 
"I was dreadful ashamed to have you graduate in cheesecloth, Rebecca, but I couldn't help it no-how. You'll hear the reason some time, and know I tried to make it up to ye. I'm afraid you was a laughin'-stock!" 
"No," Rebecca answered. "Ever so many people said our dresses were the very prettiest; they looked like soft lace. You're not to be anxious about anything. Here I am all grown up and graduated,—number three in a class of twenty-two, aunt Miranda,—and good positions offered me already. Look at me, big and strong and young, all ready to go into the world and show what you and aunt Jane have done for me. If you want me near, I'll take the Edgewood school, so that I can be here nights and Sundays to help; and if you get better, then I'll go to Augusta,—for that's a hundred dollars more, with music lessons and other things beside." 
I picked up the phone again and called Dawna’s work number. 
Her secretary answered, and hemmed and hawed about her boss being in a meeting, but apparently Dawna cared a lot more about her sister than whatever she was doing at work, because mere seconds later her voice came fast and breathless over the line. “Did you find her? Is she okay? Oh my God—did they hurt her?” 
“She’s fine!” I raised my voice to cut in over her frantic queries. “ Fine! She’s sleeping right now.” 
“Oh—Ms. Russell, I don’t know how to thank you. I just—she’s my little sister; I can’t— thank you—” 
“Yeah, okay, okay.” I had trouble squeezing a word in. “Dawna, we need to meet. Your sister—she might have gotten in deeper than she realized.” 
“I don’t under—what happened? Is she still in danger?” 
“We’ll talk in person,” I said. I didn’t want to give away too much—the way this case was going, someone was probably listening in on Dawna. Or following her....  met before? Meet me there in an hour.” 
“I—of course—of course I will. Will Courtney come? Can I see her?” 
"It started with China," she said. "Once we moved our servers onto the mainland, they went under Chinese jurisdiction. They could google everyone going through our servers." Greg knew what that meant: if you visited a page with Google ads on it, if you used Google maps, if you used Google mail -- even if you sent mail to a gmail account -- Google was collecting your info, forever. 
"They were using us to build profiles of people. Not arresting them, you understand. But when they had someone they wanted to arrest, they'd come to us for a profile and find a reason to bust them. There's hardly anything you can do on the net that isn't illegal in China." 
Greg shook his head. "Why did they put the servers in China?" 
"The government said they'd block them if they didn't. And Yahoo was there." They both made a face. Somewhere along the way, Google had become obsessed with Yahoo, more worried about what the competition was doing than how they were performing. "So we did it. But a lot of us didn't like the idea." ...  her voice. One of the dogs whined. "I made it my 20 percent project." Googlers were supposed to devote 20 percent of their time to blue-sky projects. "Me and my pod. We call it the googlecleaner. It goes deep into the database and statistically normalizes you. Your searches, your gmail histograms, your browsing patterns. All of it." 
"Can I buy you brunch?" I finally asked, hoping to lure her back onto my case. "I'd really like to show you these herbs he gave me and get your opinion." 
"I was just headed out to Zabar's to get something," she said, somewhat icily. Well, I suppose she thought she had good reason. "I'll get some bagels and meet you at my of­fice." 
Sunday traffic on upper Broadway was light, and I lucked out and found a parking space roughly two blocks from her building. It was one of the low-overhead "professional" types with a single small elevator and no doorman. When I got there, the lobby was empty. 
Her suite was on the third floor, and I rang the bell before I realized the door was open. She was back in her office, behind the reception area, taking off her coat, when I marched in. 
While she was unwrapping her sesame bagels, smoked sturgeon, and cream cheese with chives, she got an earful. My feeling was I'd better talk fast, and I did. I told her ev­erything I could think of about what had happened to me at Quetzal Manor. I didn't expect her to make sense of it from my secondhand account, but I wanted to set the background for my next move. 
I let my body complete its roll over the desk and landed on my feet. 
“Tresting?” 
He emerged shakily from behind the safe and stared at me with wide, unblinking eyes, his Beretta twitching in his hand. 
“You all right?” I asked. 
He kept staring. 
“Are. You. Hit?” I enunciated. Is this what they called shock? I wouldn’t have thought Tresting would go in for shock, being an ex-cop and all. 
“That window’s two stories up,” he said. 
“That’s right,” I agreed. “Good job, I guess that’s why they call you a private eye. Now, seriously, are you okay?” 
He touched his right bicep; blood glistened on his fingertips. “Graze. Lucky, I guess.” His eyes flickered over the scene. Four bodies. Broken glass and dirt everywhere. “It had bars on it,” he whispered. 
I’m not going to lie: I like impressing people. Especially people who’ve just walked away from me in the street and told me they never want to speak to me again. 
“Yup,” I said. “I’m just that good.” 
“You’re bleeding,” Tresting managed, once he had found his voice again. 
"Sell me your stake. He sells Mac his stake. The paperwork's inside, on the fax machine." 
"You're joking," the Series A man said. 
"That's the deal," Lee-Daniel said. "And I don't see anyone offering anything better." 
There was a tinkle from the bus and Joey Riel sped away with a stack of optical switches, off into the night, staggering slightly from the burden and the booze. 
"I need to call the partners," the Series A man said. 
"You have fifteen minutes. Better not take much longer," Lee-Daniel said, as an expensive crash resounded from the direction whence Joey Riel had gone. 
"Fifteen minutes?" the Series B man said, whitening. 
"You want several weeks?" Lee-Daniel said. He wiped his palms on his thighs and kept his grin off his face. It'd be good to get back in the driver's seat. 
Hi, Mom! 
Wow, you won't believe what happened today. First of all, I was nearly late for work because my new roommate is worried about the electrical and he pulled out all the plugs last night, even my alarm clock! His name is Tony, and I think he is either weird or crazy, or maybe both! He keeps saying that the Company uses the plugs to listen to our minds! He unplugged all the electricals and put tape over them in the middle of the night. When I woke up this morning, my room was totally black! I had my flashlight from work on the chair near my bed, and I used that to find the living room. 
But Zeb got out. Maybe Darryl would get out. Maybe me and the Xnet could help get Darryl out. 
"I haven't told him," I said. 
Now Mom was crying. She didn't cry easily. It was a British thing. It made her little hiccoughing sobs much worse to hear. 
"You will tell him," she managed. "You will." 
"I will." 
"But first we have to tell your father." 
Dad no longer had any regular time when he came home. Between his consulting clients -- who had lots of work now that the DHS was shopping for data-mining startups on the peninsula -- and the long commute to Berkeley, he might get home any time between 6PM and midnight. 
Tonight Mom called him and told him he was coming home right now . He said something and she just repeated it: right now . 
When he got there, we had arranged ourselves in the living room with the note...  easier to tell, the second time. The secret was getting lighter. I didn't embellish, I didn't hide anything. I came clean. 
I'd heard of coming clean before but I'd never understood what it meant until I did it. Holding in the secret had dirtied me, soiled my spirit. It had made me afraid and ashamed. It had made me into all the things that Ange said I was. 
“I figured I would try for one more recording. Get him to say something more dramatic.” 
“Don’t act too sympathetic to what he’s saying or you could get in trouble, yourself.” 
“I’ll be careful. This is cool. It’s like writing a script and then directing the scene, with some improv thrown in, keeping every- body fooled.” 
“I knew you’d be good at this. But right now I have to figure out what to do about Wheeze.” 
“Tell me where he is and I’ll drive down there.” 
“But then what? He’s a wanted man. It could crimp your emerging career as an FBI informant, don’t you think?” 
“Not if the FBI doesn’t know about this trip. Look, assuming I’m not being watched — ” 
“Big assumption.” 
“I’ll stipulate to that.” 
“Wait. How do you spell that?” 
He spelled it. “It’s legalese, something my dad always says when he actually could just say “okay, you have a point.” Drives my mom crazy. Let’s just run through this. I borrow the car, I tell my family that I need it for some plausible reason that I still have to invent, but they’re used to me bending them to my will. I drive down to Davenport and get there sometime after midnight.” He frowned, possibly thinking about what it would be like to be look- ing for somebody in the dark after driving for hours. “Do you know exactly where he is?” 
The horribleness of the roadhouse went asymptotic to infinity at minute four, as you sat down and tried to eat...  down at a table crowded with middle-managers in need of reassurance while swatting away the buzzing aerostats that probabilistically routed towards those diners with the highest credit ratings, delivering pitches whose tone and content had been honed by genetic algorithms that sharpened them to maximal intrusiveness and intriguingness. It took a genetic algorithm to make a high colonic sound like an afternoon at a spa. 
"I'm getting too old for this shit," said Joey Riel, a 17-year-old metis whose fluency...  made him the youngest middle manager in CogRad history, eight months before. He'd started griping about his road-weariness within days of his promotion up from antennaman. It made him fit in with the other, older middle...  whose time on the road had drummed out any footloose spirit they might have once possessed. 
Further down the arcade, the investors were waving their tokens over a trading table, playing the instant futures market. An aerostat overhead mirrored the gameplay, and as Lee-Daniel watched, MacDiarmid doubled his money on a short-odds bet on two cherries and a lemon, then Earnshaw lost big when his long-odds investment on uranium and coal came back with two windmills and a photovoltaic array. 
The ewok held up his paw. "But how much should we be willing to trade, Ms. McCavity?" 
She looked into the camera, keeping her eyes still, the way she'd been told to if she didn't want to appear tourettic. "Wickett, when Franklin said, 'Those willing to give up a little liberty for a little security deserve neither security nor liberty,' he wasn't spouting empty rhetoric, he was laying the groundwork for this enduring democratic experiment that we all love. Look, we're not opposed to the use of autonomous networks for some applications, even most applications, with appropriate safeguards and checks and balances. No nation on earth has the reliance that we do on these networks. Are they an appropriate way of advising you on the best way to get to the mall on a busy Saturday? Absolutely, provided that everyone gets the best advice the system can give, regardless of economic status or influence. 
But should they be used to figure out whom the FBI should open an investigation into? Absolutely not. We use judges and grand juries and evidence to establish the sufficiency of a request to investigate a private citizen who is considered innocent until proven guilty. We learned that lesson the hard way, during the War on Terrorism and the Ashcroft witch-hunts. Should we trade grand juries and judges for ant-colonies? Do you want the warrant for your wiretap issued by an accountable human being or by a simulated ant-hill?" 
“A traitor? What the hell are you talking about?” 
“The spy-eyes I planted so our enemies can spy on us, the wealth you have around here. How many of our people died because you sold them out?” 
“Valentine, you are a smart girl and your mother is a soldier, but you aren’t so very smart as all that. You are a stupid girl sometimes. Our little palace here isn’t full of spies. We’re documentarians . We shoot the war and we send it to the outside world so they can see the tragedy they are wreaking here. We have a huge activist movement that we fuel through our pictures. The spy-eyes you planted yesterday are now streaming 24/7 to activist sites in fifty countries. It is being played in the halls of the United Nations.” 
Eva made a spitting sound. “It’s being played as filler on the snowy slopes of upper cable. It’s being played as ironic snuff-porn in dorm rooms. It’s being used as stock footage for avant-garde performance art. Please, wizard, please. She deserves to know the real situation, not the things you tell yourself when you can’t sleep.” 
His fingers tightened, the muscles around his eyes pinching. “Promise me.” 
“I said okay!” Behind me, flames rose in the store in a whoosh, punching up through the second floor, the heat scorching my exposed skin. “I promise, all right? Come on!” 
He let go of me, and we dashed. 
As we slipped onto the edges of the base property, I caught sight of flashlight beams dancing through one of the far buildings in a beehive of activity. That building must be the nerve center of whatever disaster response they had going, I thought—farming out personnel to help local authorities quell the rioting, coordinating logistics during the crisis. While, I hoped, maintaining some sort of emergency communication with the outside world. 
We hurried into the complex. With the personnel all concentrated elsewhere, this end of the base was mostly deserted. Only one young man in fatigues tried to challenge us, running forward through the dark and shouting; I pulled my otherwise useless phone out of my pocket and threw it. He collapsed to the pavement as if his strings had been cut. 
There was a knock at the door, and she hurried across the room to open it. The parlor maid stood there with a tray. Lexy took it from her with a pleasant “good morning,” and closed the door again. Caroline’s breakfast! There was something disturbing in the sight of that carefully prepared tray, ready for the girl who was not there. 
The door opened—without a preliminary knock, this time—and Mrs. Enderby came in. She turned the key behind her, and, without a word, went over to the bed and pulled off the covers. Then she went into the adjoining bathroom and started the water running in the tub. This done, she sat down at the table and began to eat the breakfast on the tray. 
Lexy stood watching all this with indignation and a sort of horror. 
“All she cares about is keeping up appearances,” the girl thought. “The only thing that worries her is that some one might find out. She doesn’t know where poor Caroline is—and she can sit down and eat! I’m comparatively a stranger, and even I—” 
Lexy was an honest soul, however. The...  her, and she admitted in her heart that she, too, could eat, if she had a chance. 
Tyler was nodding. “A documentary approach. Which makes me think . . .” 
“Sarah?” Geoff murmured. 
“She’d totally love this. I’ll ping her and see if she’d be inter- ested.” 
“Who’s Sarah?” I asked. 
“The filmmaker? She makes those political documentaries and releases them in serial form? Basically invented blitzdocs. If we could get fi lm of an FBI informant orchestrating one of these man- ufactured terrorist threats, she could turn it into something amaz- ing. And she has a ton of followers. It would go viral in no time.” 
“We’re releasing a new wearable that produces top-quality film,” Jason said. “Great storage capacity, incredible resolution. I brought a couple of prototypes to the conference. I’ll donate one to the cause.” 
“Your boss will be okay with that?” Ian asked. 
“But it would take too long,” I realized. “I mean, Zip spent months working up to this bust.” 
“It might not take long at all,” Jason said. “There’s an army of informants out there - ten times the number that J. Edgar Hoover had back in the day. The FBI gets billions of dollars appropriated for terrorist investigations every year. They spread it around to local law enforcement and everyone is under pressure to show that spending all that money pays off. I should know. We make a crapload out of government...  a bite.” 
“Attacks on major cities all over the world have left emergency responders in chaos. The attacks are electronic, biological, nuclear and conventional explosives, and they are very widespread. I’m a security engineer, and where I come from, attacks in this kind of cluster are usually viewed as opportunistic: group B blows up a bridge because everyone is off taking care of group A’s dirty nuke event. It’s smart. An Aum Shin Rikyo cell in Seoul gassed the subways there about 2AM Eastern—that’s the earliest event we can locate, so it may have been the Archduke that broke the camel’s back. We’re pretty sure that Aum Shin Rikyo couldn’t be behind this kind of mayhem: they have no history of infowar and have never shown the kind of organizational acumen necessary to take out so many targets at once. Basically, they’re not smart enough. 
“We’re holing up here for the foreseeable future, at least until the bioweapon has been identified and dispersed. We’re going to staff the racks and keep the networks up. This is critical infrastructure, and it’s our job to make sure it’s got five nines of uptime. In times of national emergency, our responsibility to do that doubles.” 
“The spray,” I answered, not wanting to go into it. 
“Think our perps turned kidnappers,” said Tresting. “They wanted information—forced the vics to talk, most like while their coworkers got tortured or killed.” He reached over to the nearest woman and lifted the side of the cloth gag with a gloved finger. “Take a look.” 
He was right. Blood stained the skin underneath the cloth, and nowhere near any of her own wounds. The smearing made it harder to judge, but from the angle I guessed it had come from the man across from her. 
Maybe this investigative stuff was worth something after all. 
I told Tresting what I’d found in the rest of the office suite. “Unless they have data on an outside server somewhere, it’s cleaned out.” 
“Think we better head, then,” he said grimly. “We can keep an eye on the police investigation.” 
“When do you think they’ll find it?” 
“Right after we leave, when I call in a tip.” 
I rolled my eyes. 
“Can it, Russell,” Tresting growled. “This is too big.” 
He had a point. Of course, considering what we knew of Pithica, this was probably too big for the cops, too. 
We also had to evade physical surveillance, of course, but that gets easier every time they add a new layer of physical snoopery -- all the bells and whistles lull our beloved faculty into a totally false sense of security. We surfed the crowd down the hallways, heading for my favorite side-exit. We were halfway along when Darryl hissed, "Crap! I forgot, I've got a library book in my bag." 
"You're kidding me," I said, and hauled him into the next bathroom we passed. Library books are bad news. Every one of them has an arphid -- Radio Frequency ID tag -- glued into its binding, which makes it possible for the librarians to check out the books by waving them over a reader, and lets a library shelf tell you if any of the books on it are out of place. 
But it also lets the school track where you are at all times. It was another of those legal loopholes: the courts wouldn't let the schools track us with arphids, but they could track library books , and use the school records to tell them who was likely to be carrying which library book. 
"Rebecca Randall!" exclaimed Emma Jane, "you're handsome as a picture!" 
"I?" laughed Rebecca "Nonsense! it's only the pink gingham." 
"You're not good looking every day," insisted Emma Jane; "but you're different somehow. See my garnet ring; mother scrubbed it in soap and water. How on earth did your aunt Mirandy let you put on your bran' new dress?" 
"They were both away and I didn't ask," Rebecca responded anxiously. "Why? Do you think they'd have said no?" 
"Miss Mirandy always says no, doesn't she?" asked Emma Jane. 
"Ye—es; but this afternoon is very special—almost like a Sunday-school concert." 
"Yes," assented Emma Jane, "it is, of course; with your name on the board, and our pointing to your flag, and our elergant dialogue, and all that." 
The afternoon was one succession of solid triumphs for everybody concerned. There were no real failures at all, no tears, no parents ashamed of their offspring. Miss Dearborn heard many admiring remarks passed upon her ability, and wondered whether they belonged to her or partly, at least, to Rebecca. The child had no more to do than several others, but she was somehow in the foreground. It transpired afterwards at various village entertainments that Rebecca couldn't be kept in the background; it positively refused to hold her. Her worst enemy could not have called her pushing. She was ready and willing and never shy; but she sought for no chances of display and was, indeed, remarkably lacking in self-consciousness, as well as eager to bring others into whatever fun or entertainment there was. 
It was a bug. 
My heart thudded in my ears. It was dark and quiet in the house, but it wasn't a comforting dark. There were eyes out there, eyes and ears, and they were watching me. Surveilling me. The surveillance I faced at school had followed me home, but this time, it wasn't just the Board of Education looking over my shoulder: the Department of Homeland Security had joined them. 
I almost took the bug out. Then I figured that who ever put it there would know that it was gone. I left it in. It made me sick to do it. 
I looked around for more tampering. I couldn't find any, but did that mean there hadn't been any? Someone had broken into my room and planted this device -- had disassembled my laptop and reassembled it. There were lots of other ways to wiretap a computer. I could never find them all. 
I put the machine together with numb fingers. This time, the case wouldn't snap shut just right, but the power-cable stayed in. I booted it up and set my fingers on the keyboard, thinking that I would run some diagnostics and see what was what. 
Good questions, I thought. Maybe that's the reason he doesn't want publicity; it sounds a little too commercial for a mind-body guru. 
My other thought was, with so many babies somehow available, why was Alex Goddard so reluctant to even discuss adoption with me? 
The answer, I was sure, lay in the fact he already knew more about me than I knew about him. He knew I was mak­ing a film about adoption (how did he come by that knowl­edge? I kept wondering) and he was concerned he might be mentioned in it. I kept asking myself, why? 
On our drive back down the Henry Hudson Parkway, I decided I was definitely looking at a documentary in the making. I just had to decide whether to do it with or without his cooperation. 
A fter I dropped off Lou at his space in Soho, where he was house sitting for an estate now in the courts, I decided to head on home. The more I thought about Alex Goddard, the more I felt frustrated and even a little angry that I'd com­pletely failed to find out any of the things I'd wanted to learn about him. I replayed our interview in my mind, got nowhere, and then decided to push away thoughts of Quetzal Manor for a while and dwell on something else: Sarah, my film, anything. 
The damaged garment was removed and partially immersed in turpentine, while Rebecca graced the festal board clad in a blue calico wrapper of Mrs. Cobb's. 
"Don't let it take your appetite away," crooned Mrs. Cobb. "I've got cream biscuit and honey for you. If the turpentine don't...  and warm suds. If they fail, father shall run over to Strout's and borry some of the stuff Marthy got in Milltown to take the currant pie out of her weddin' dress." 
"I ain't got to understandin' this paintin' accident yet," said uncle Jerry jocosely, as he handed Rebecca the honey. "Bein' as how there's 'Fresh Paint' signs hung all over the breedge, so 't a blind asylum couldn't miss 'em, I can't hardly account for your gettin' int' the pesky stuff." 
"I didn't notice the signs," Rebecca said dolefully. "I suppose I was looking at the falls." 
"The falls has been there sence the beginnin' o' time, an' I cal'late they'll be there till the end on 't; so you needn't 'a' been in sech a brash to git a sight of 'em. Children comes turrible high, mother, but I s'pose we must have 'em!" he said, winking at Mrs. Cobb. 
"Sure." I pointed the way. 
While she was gone, I went to the kitchen and surveyed it, checking the cabinets. Again, the place was cleaner than it had been in ages. The look of it momentarily bucked me up. 
When Carly came back, she hugged me and then an­nounced she wanted to go check on Kevin. 
"I'll do what you said about calling them," she concluded, reaching for her bag. "I think you're right. That ought to get them off my case. At least for the moment. As for the long run—“ 
"Carly," I said, taking her hand again, "we'll get through this. Just trust me." 
We hugged one more time and then she was gone. I took the moment to double-lock the door, and then collapsed on the couch. What should be my next move? I closed my eyes and tried to review all the insidious things that had happened in the last twenty-four hours. The illegal drugs, the break-in and theft of my film, the suspicious nursery of Children of Light, the threats to Carly . . . 
Then it finally came back that she'd mentioned Ramos saying something about me. By now I was getting used to being threatened by the man, so one more time was hardly news. But I wished I'd asked her the specifics. 
where a lot of university kids live. So long as he calls his parents regularly and meets up with his mom every Sunday for mass, he gets to live life pretty much the way he wants. 
Nikko doesn’t get up before noon usually, so our meeting at the MIA wasn’t scheduled until the afternoon. I tried to catch up on sleep, but I kept picturing a SWAT team busting down the door and thundering up the steps in their military gear. I finally gave up and systematically checked out my security setup. 
I had protected both of my laptops with encryption designed by a cypherpunk who was part of the Group. They each had a sneaky dual boot so that anyone who forced me to switch them on and type in my password would find nothing interesting, just random homework assignments and a browser full of innocent history, 
populated by a routine I wrote that surfed sites a kid might look at on a daily basis. To get to the real stuff you had to interrupt the startup and know what to type in at command level. It wasn’t fool- proof - anyone who really wanted to see what I’d been up to could crack their way in without too much trouble - but someone who didn’t know much about computers would assume it wasn’t worth the bother to take a closer look. 
And she? Her own future was close-folded still; folded and hidden in beautiful mists; but she leaned her head against the sun-warmed door, and closing her eyes, whispered, just as if she had been a child saying her prayers: "God bless aunt Miranda; God bless the brick house that was; God bless the brick house that is to be!" 
“Um. Well, yeah, I figured it out mostly on my own and then Raymond told me a little more.” 
“And you’re fine with depriving little kids of their wages?” 
“Anda,” Lucy said, her voice brittle. “You like gaming, right, it’s important to you?” 
“Yeah, ‘course it is.” 
“How important? Is it something you do for fun, just a hobby you waste a little time on? Are you just into it casually, or are you committed to it?” 
“I know that. That’s why you’re my right-hand woman, why I want you at my side when I go on a mission. We’re bad-ass, you and me, as bad-ass as they come, and we got that way through discipline and hard work and really caring about the game, right?” 
“Yes, right, but—” 
“You’ve met Liza the Organiza, right?” 
“Yes, she came by my school.” 
“Mine too. She asked me to look out for you because of what she saw in you that day.” 
“Liza the Organiza goes to Ohio?” 
“Idaho. Yes—all across the US. They put her on the tube and everything. She’s amazing, and she cares about the game, too—that’s what makes us all Fahrenheits: we’re committed to each other, to teamwork, and to fair play.” 
Ray shows them his card, gives them a stupid grin like the one he's wearing in the photo. The Marines aren't amused. 
The one who had demanded his credentials, Kilgore, nods, satisfied. The rifles are retracted to their upright rest position. "Chief Becker said you should report to him before poking around." 
"So," Ray says quietly. "What's going on?" 
When he wants the security spin, he'll talk to Becker. What he wants right now is the truth, the ground level assessment, the bareboned and clinical report one Marine gives to another. And since he's already cover-wrecked with security, he might as well exploit his assets. 
"Couldn't say, sir." 
"Don't call me 'sir', Marine." 
The man's eyes narrow, recalculating what he thought he knew— the accuracy of what he had been told. It's an old joke, basic training barracks humor after the first grunt gets nailed with pushing fifty or taking a five mile double-time nature hike for answering the NCO with 'sir' tacked onto the end. Marines find this stuff endlessly amusing-probably only Marines. The guy lets his eyes roam Ray up and down, from rat to id to hardware geek coveralls. 
Mr. Cobb...  his native element and left panting on the sand; there was no evading the awful responsibility of a reply, for Rebecca's eyes were searchlights, that pierced the fiction of his brain and perceived the bald spot on the back of his head. 
"I s'pose there's a brook somewheres near it," he said timorously. 
Rebecca looked disappointed but not quite dis-heartened. "That's pretty good," she said encouragingly. "You're warm but not hot; there's a brook, but not a common brook. It has young trees and baby bushes on each side of it, and it's a shallow chattering little brook with a white sandy bottom and lots of little shiny pebbles. Whenever there's a bit of sunshine the brook catches it, and it's always full of sparkles the livelong day. Don't your stomach feel hollow? Mine doest I was so 'fraid I'd miss the stage I couldn't eat any breakfast." 
"You'd better have your lunch, then. I don't eat nothin' till I get to Milltown; then I get a piece o'...  could see Milltown. I suppose it's bigger and grander even than...  my pink sunshade there and my bead purse. You see how it opens with a snap? I've twenty cents in it, and it's got to last three months, for stamps and paper and ink. Mother says aunt Mirandy won't want to buy things like those when she's feeding and clothing me and paying for my school books." 
The truth is that the weight of the subby and the load harness makes him feel better, even if they are completely ineffective. 
"But it can't touch us as long as we've got these rings on, right?" Kilgore says, breathing hard. "I mean, that's why you gave them to us." 
"Colonel Holcomb has offered every assurance that they work." 
"Great." 
Rodriguez seems to be the only one amused. "Think of it as a field test for new equipment, sergeant." 
"According to the most recent statistics, corporal, outside the New Mes combat zone, more Marines are killed field testing experimental equipment in training exercises each year than in all other military related activities combined. Just something for you to file away for later review." 
They leave it there, not because there isn't more to say, but because they don't have the breath to waste on standard Marine smack. Finally, after what seems like years, they reach the L-shaped end of the gangway they've been traveling and split right down the rear corridor. What Ray estimates to be a hundred meters distant, there is a column of sharp, steady illumination spearing up from the floor. They race for it, and spread out around the tip of the ladder, like peering down into a well. 
"You ever had a girlfriend?" 
"Yes," Sean said, feeling slightly smug. Never ask a yes/no question. 
"Why'd she leave you?" Grampa asked, his eyes sharp as razors. 
"What makes you think she left me ?" Sean asked. 
"Did she?" Grampa fired back. 
"Yes," Sean said, as calmly as he could manage. 
"And why did that happen?" 
"We were growing in different directions," Sean said, the words sounding prim even to him. 
Grampa barked and slapped his palm on the table. The old men and women in the ward swiveled their heads to stare, momentarily distracted, then went back to arguing. 
"You're full of shit, kid. What's that supposed to mean?" 
"I was working on my thesis proposal. Lara was working on hers. Neither of us had time for a relationship. It was amicable." 
Lara had caught him watching television over her shoulder while she was delivering one of her dreaded Relationship Briefings, and had laid into him a little too hard. He'd come back at her with everything he had, an extended rant that ranged from her lame-ass thesis -- the cultural impact of some obscure TV show from before they'd been born -- to her backbiting, over-educated circle of friends. He'd moved onto her relationship with her mother; her insufferable whining about a suicidal uncle she'd been close to; and her pretentious way of sprinkling her speech with stupid pseudo-intellectual buzzwords. He crossed the line again and again and she kicked him out on his ass. 
She smiled a little prim smile, which had to be her ice-queen equivalent of a touchdown dance, and the guards led me away. As the door closed, I saw her bend down over the phone and key the password in. 
I wish I could say that I'd anticipated this possibility in advance and created a fake password that unlocked a completely innocuous partition on my phone, but I wasn't nearly that paranoid/clever. 
You might be wondering at this point what dark secrets I had locked away on my phone and memory sticks and email. I'm just a kid, after all. 
The truth is that I had everything to hide, and nothing. Between my phone and my memory sticks, you could get a pretty good idea of who my friends were, what I thought of them, all the goofy things we'd done. You could read the transcripts of the electronic arguments we'd carried out and the electronic reconciliations we'd arrived at. 
You see, I don't delete stuff. Why would I? Storage is cheap, and you never know when you're going to want to go back to that stuff. Especially the stupid stuff. You know that feeling you get sometimes where you're sitting on the subway and there's no one to talk to and you suddenly remember some bitter fight you had, some terrible thing you said? Well, it's usually never as bad as you remember. Being able to go back and see it again is a great way to remind yourself that you're not as horrible a person as you think you are. Darryl and I have gotten over more fights that way than I can count. 
"No," grumbled Emma Jane; "infant is worse even than babe. Rebecca, do you think we'd better do as the circular says, and let Elijah or Elisha try the soap before we begin selling?" 
"I can't imagine a babe doing a family wash with ANY soap," answered Rebecca; "but it must be true or they would never dare to print it, so don't let's bother. Oh! won't it be the greatest fun, Emma Jane? At some of the houses—where they can't possibly know me—I shan't be frightened, and I shall reel off the whole rigmarole, invalid, babe, and all. Perhaps I shall say even the last sentence, if I can remember it: 'We sound every chord in the great mac-ro-cosm of satisfaction." 
This conversation took place on a Friday afternoon at Emma Jane's house, where Rebecca, to her unbounded joy, was to stay over Sunday, her aunts having gone to Portland to the funeral of an old friend. Saturday being a holiday, they were going to have the old white horse, drive to North Riverboro three miles away, eat a twelve o'clock dinner with Emma Jane's cousins, and be back at four o'clock punctually. 
“Yes,” Robbie said. “And at your service, Asimov be blessed.” His cameras spotted her eyes rolling, and that stung. He tried to keep his thoughts pious, though. The point of Asimovism wasn’t to inspire gratitude in humans, it was to give purpose to the long, long life. 
“I’m Kate,” the woman said. 
“Robbie,” he said. 
“Robbie the Row-Boat?” she said, and choked a little. 
“They named me at the factory,” he said. He labored to keep any recrimination out of his voice. Of course it was funny. That’s why it was his name. 
“It’s all right, Kate,” he said. “We’ll be back at the boat in a few minutes. They’ve got dinner on. Do you think you’ll want a night dive?” 
“You’re joking,” she said. 
“It’s just that if you’re going to go down again tonight, we’ll save the dessert course for after, with a glass of wine or two. Otherwise we’ll give you wine now.” 
“You want to know if I’m going to get back into that sea—” 
“Oh, it’s just the reef. It attained sentience so it’s acting out a little. Like a colicky newborn.” 
There finally was a pink gingham, and when it was nicely finished, aunt Jane gave Rebecca a delightful surprise. She showed her how to make a pretty trimming of narrow white linen tape, by folding it in pointed shapes and sewing it down very flat with neat little stitches. 
"It'll be good fancy work for you, Rebecca; for your aunt Miranda won't like to see you always reading in the long winter evenings. Now if you think you can baste two rows of white tape round the bottom of your pink skirt and keep it straight by the checks, I'll stitch them on for you and trim the waist and sleeves with pointed tape-trimming, so the dress'll be real pretty for second best." 
Rebecca's joy knew no bounds. "I'll baste like a house afire!" she exclaimed. "It's a thousand yards round that skirt, as well I know, having hemmed it; but I could sew pretty trimming on if it was from here to Milltown. Oh! do you think aunt Mirandy'll ever let me go to Milltown with Mr. Cobb? He's asked me again, you know; but one Saturday I had to pick strawberries, and another it rained, and I don't think she really approves of my going. It's TWENTY-NINE minutes past four, aunt Jane, and Alice Robinson has been sitting under the currant bushes for a long time waiting for me. Can I go and play?" 
"Yes," sighed his mother, "there it is again; if the twins could 'a' married Aurelia Sawyer, 't would 'a' been all right. L. D. M. was talented 'nough to GET Reely's money, but M. D. L. would 'a' ben practical 'nough to have KEP' it." 
Aurelia's share of the modest Sawyer property had been put into one thing after another by the handsome and luckless Lorenzo de Medici. He had a graceful and poetic way of making an investment for each new son and daughter that blessed their union. "A birthday present for our child, Aurelia," he would say,—"a little nest-egg for the future;" but Aurelia once remarked in a moment of bitterness that the hen never lived that could...  out of them. 
Miranda and Jane had virtually washed their hands of Aurelia when she married Lorenzo de Medici Randall. Having exhausted the resources of Riverboro and its immediate vicinity, the unfortunate couple had moved on and on in a steadily decreasing scale of prosperity until they had reached Temperance, where they had settled down and invited fate to do its worst, an invitation which was promptly accepted. The maiden sisters at home wrote to Aurelia two or three times a year, and sent modest but serviceable presents to the children at Christmas, but refused to assist L. D. M. with the regular expenses of his rapidly growing family. His last investment, made shortly before the birth of Miranda (named in a lively hope of favors which never came), was a small farm two miles from Temperance. Aurelia managed this herself, and so it proved a home at least, and a place for the unsuccessful Lorenzo to die and to be buried from, a duty somewhat too long deferred, many thought, which he performed on the day of Mira's birth. 
Cemfl’s eyes widened. “Why are you saying this nonsense?” 
“You’re the one who wanted to overthrow what’s-his-name, 
that president of yours.” 
“Our protests were not violent. We got tear-gassed. We got beaten. We stood in the park with books, reading silently.” 
“Bet that scared the shit out of them.” Simon held up his palms. “The bomb thing? It was just a joke, okay?” 
Marita patted his knee. “Don’t listen to these jerks. They’re just goofing off.” 
“Okay.” Cemfl rubbed his palms on his jeans. “But now I have to study. I have a big exam on Friday.” 
“Don’t go telling people about our jokes, you got that?” Danny jabbed his cigarette at Cemfl. “Cops don’t have a sense of humor. 
And they don’t like Arabs.” 
“I’m Turkish.” 
“Whatever.” 
Marita smiled at Cemil and he smiled back nervously and pat- ted the baby on the head before hurrying out of the house, away from these crazy people. Okay, scratch him off the list of possible informants. 
Tweak started laughing. It was contagious, but Danny stubbed out his cigarette and muttered, “Gotta watch that guy.” 
I said, "So what now? You pick some other poor retard and give him the old screw-job?" 
He said, "I guess so." 
I said, "In that case, I'll do it." 
His mouth dropped. He sat down and put on a movie, Pink Flamingos. What a sick movie! 
When it was over, he said, "In that case, I'll do it." 
And then I had the best idea I've ever had. It was so good, I couldn't say anything for five whole minutes. Mom, you sure didn't raise any idiots! 
Hi Mom! 
Well, today was just fine . Me and Rhindquist got to the garage in the nick of time and it's a good thing that he turned our watches down because they give me a headache! 
Vasquez was waiting for us when we got there and he had on his mad face for the other guys but when me and Rhindquist got on the truck, he smiled and winked at us. 
I drove and Rhindquist hung onto the back and he shouted at me to go faster and I just ignored him! He kept on shouting saying, You pinhead my grandma drives faster than you do and she's been dead for years! And that made me laugh so hard I nearly rolled the truck and Rhindquist nearly fell off and he was pretty quiet after that! 
“Hello, comrade,” she said. She didn’t have her usual accent. 
The hero nodded to her. “Comrade Ana.” He knew her name, without being introduced. 
The wizard came to the door. “Comrade hero.” 
“Comrade Georg.” The old hero shook the wizard’s hand. The wizard was wearing rags like Ana’s. He had a cunning glitter in his eye and he took in the street, took in Valentine. “Hello, Valentine,” he said. 
“This girl tells me you have contraband,” the old hero said. “It’s my duty to come in and search your premises for it.” 
“Valentine,” the wizard said, with unconvincing disappointment. “The food you took from here wasn’t contraband. It was my savings.” To the hero, he added, “She took the food and I didn’t blame her. Surely she was hungry. If I had been a little child in her circumstances, I might have done the same.” 
Valentine squeezed Trover’s hand until he whimpered. She didn’t trust her tongue enough to say anything. 
They went into the vestibule and then turned left into a flat. Now, until this time, she’d always turned right when visiting the wizard, but now on the right there was nothing but a smooth, unbroken wall. And to the left, there was an entirely different flat, barren of furniture as her own flat, small and dirty and smelling of death. 
People would cross the screens from different angles, not aware that someone was getting paid to catch them picking their noses or scratching their butts. Some of the cameras were indoors, 
pointed at the cashiers at the cafeteria and the bookstore. Others were in a computer lab, which I had used once when I forgot my power cord. I never went back there again. The student worker was bored so I got him to tell me about all kinds of stuff, from the unfair way he always got stuck working on Friday nights to the fact that they didn’t have the budget to cover the whole campus, 
leaving a handful of spots surveillance-free, including this one. 
My messages to Wheeze were safe, too. We were using end-to- end encryption and an open source program that everyone on the Group vouched for. I’d checked the code myself, line by line, but a panicky voice inside was telling me it wasn’t safe after all. Nothing was. 
Oh, Wilson, what kind of trouble had you gotten into this time? 
Wheeze finally responded. 
"You look like you're ready to do some gardening," he said. 
"My shift at the club," she said. "I'll be trimming the lime trees and tending the mint patch and the cucumber frames all afternoon." She smiled and stopped him with a gesture. She bent down and plucked a blade of greenery from the untidy trail-edge. They were in Central Park, in one of the places where it felt like a primeval forest instead of an artful garden razed and built in the middle of the city. She uncapped her water bottle and poured water over the herb -- it looked like a blade of grass -- rubbing it between her forefinger and thumb to scrub at it. Then she tore it in two and handed him one piece, held the other to her nose, then ate it, nibbling and making her nose wrinkle like a rabbit's. He followed suit. Lemon, delicious and tangy. 
"Lemon grass," she said. "Terrible weed, of course. But doesn't it taste amazing?" 
He nodded. The flavor lingered in his mouth. 
"Especially when you consider what this is made of -- smoggy rain, dog piss, choked up air, and sunshine, and DNA. What a weird flavor to emerge from such a strange soup, don't you think?" 
“Oh,” the woman said, comprehension dawning on her face. “Oh, well then, come on in. Any friend of the wizard.” 
The flat was just as she remembered it from that long ago night. The woman gestured at the...  to emanate from it. Valentine’d forgotten...  remembered it. 
“I’ll go wake up his majesty, then,” the woman said. “Just sit yourself down.” 
Valentine sat perched on the edge of the grand divan that twisted and curved along one wall of the sitting room. She knew that the seat of her trousers—filthy even before her tussle with the zombie—would leave black marks on its brave red upholstery. 
The conversation from down the corridor was muffled but the tone was angry. Valentine felt her cheeks go hot, even through the fever. This place was still civilized and she’d brought the war to it. 
Then the wizard came into the sitting room and waved the lights up to full bright, wincing away from the sudden illumination. He squinted at her. 
“Do I know you?” he said. 
Her tongue caught in her mouth. In his pajamas with his hair mussed, he still looked every inch the wizard. 
“I’m Jack,” the skinny one said. “That’s Marsh. We hear you know explosives. Is that right?” 
Danny gave him a glare, trying to look tough. He mostly looked suspicious and hungover. “So?” 
“So we have resources, but we need someone with your skills.” 
“Show them your hand,” I said. “It got burned when he threw a tear gas canister back at the cops.” 
“When was that?” Jack asked. 
“A while ago.” Danny still had his tough face on, but he was fidgeting with his lighter, flicking at it with a thumb. 
“Was this Baltimore? We were there.” 
“Hashtag black lives matter,” the big guy said, looking at me, 
making it clear they didn’t matter to him. I wanted to punch him in the nose, but something about the way he looked...  little smile made me realize he was trying to rile me up, so I didn’t. 
“What do you think, Zen?” Jack asked. “What kind of action makes sense these days?” 
“Action that works.” 
Jack nodded as if I’d said something profound and powerful. 
“Absolutely. You can send out Tweets or you can attack the source. Capitalism. You notice how everything changes when you set a Pizza Hut on fire? ” 
As I did, I felt a kind of dizziness gradually coming over me, the hypnotic drone seeming to take over my conscious­ness. Instead of growing slower, my breathing was actually becoming more rapid, as though I'd started to hyperventilate. But I no longer had any control over it. My autonomic ner­vous system had been handed over to him, as dizziness and a sense of disorientation settled over me. The room around me began to swirl, and I felt my conscious mind, my will, slipping out of my grasp. It was the very thing I'd vowed not to let happen. 
The same thing had occurred once before, after I broke my collarbone in the Pacific surf that slammed a Mexican beach south of Puerto Villarta. When a kindly Mexican doc­tor was later binding on a harness to immobilize my shoulder, the pain was such that I momentarily passed out while sitting on a stool in his office. I didn't fall over or collapse; it just seemed as though my mind, fleeing the incredible pain, drifted away in a haze of sensation. 
"So you know where we're going?" 
"I don't have a single, solitary clue. Your mother gives terrible directions, darling. Pull off at the next exit and we'll buy a map." 
"We are going to be: So. Late." 
"But now they know we're late. We have an excuse. You: stop Fretting." 
Once they were on the secondary roads, the creepiness of the highway full of stopped cars and crane-necked drivers gave way to a wind-washed soughing silence of waves and beach and palms. Trish rolled down the window and let the breeze kiss the sweat off her lip, watching the surfers wiping out in the curl as the car sped toward the boneyard. 
"Are you sure this is the kind of thing you're supposed to bring a date to?" 
"Yes," he said. "Don't Fret. That's my job." 
"And you don't think it's even a little weird to take a girl to a cemetery on a date?" 
"We're not burying anyone," he said. "It's just an unveiling." 
"I still don't get that," she said. "I keep picturing your mom cutting a ribbon with a giant pair of gold scissors." 
But the idea impressed him as a good one, and go he would. 
“I’d rather see how she is, first,” he repeated. “If there’s no change, I’ll come back.” 
Lexy looked at Mr. Binz with an angry and reproachful frown, which the poor man did not understand. He had only wanted to give helpful advice. 
“Come on, then!” she said to Captain Grey. 
“I’ll leave you at Mrs. Royce’s,” he told her. 
“No, you won’t!” she contradicted with a trace of severity. “If you will go, I’m going with you!” 
He protested against this, but she would not listen, and so they went to the garage for Joe’s taxi; but Joe and his taxi had gone out. An interested bystander said that they could get a “rig” from the livery stable with no trouble at all. They had only to find the proprietor, and he, in turn, would find the driver, who would harness up the horse. 
“No, thanks,” said Captain Grey. He turned to Lexy. “I can’t wait,” he told her. “I’m going to walk. Thank you for—” 
“I can walk, too,” said Lexy. “It’s only three miles.” 
"Because you modulate your vocal patterns to a higher volume, as though I'm deaf, which tells me you want me to do something specific. The rest is inspired guesswork based on hand signals and vocal commands that have been hardcoded into my response logic tree. " 
"Inspired guesswork?" 
"Lawrence's shorthand terminology for the sub-optimal input cue behavior expectation analysis and trigger mechanisms." 
"But you could turn it on..." 
"If you give me access to that segment of my data core." 
Ray thinks about it for a moment. His understanding of the drone data core environment is less than profound. 
"What would be the ramifications if I did that?" 
"The dialogue transform capability as Lawrence designed it is deeply imbedded in the dynamic apprehension logic. Dynamic apprehension is, in turn, related to parameter driven task streams-what you might think of as personal initiative and individualized goal setting constructs. You might see shifts in my behavior. I might become a bit contentious when your commands conflicted with my own perception of mission value and/or risk acceptability. There are other issues, but I'll need some processing time to give you a detailed report. Too many variables." 
But wait a minute. Those weren't just any old lab dishes. And no plant extracts were in them either, just clear liquid. That...  puzzling, and then I remembered seeing pic­tures of lab dishes like these being used for artificially fer­tilized embryos. At the beginning, freshly extracted human ova are placed in an incubator for several hours, afloat in a medium that replicates the inside of a female Fallopian tube, to mature them in preparation for fertilization. Goddard had said something about tests on the blastocyst, the first cellular material created after fertilization. So was he using actual fetuses? My God. I felt like I was starting to know, or guess, a lot more than he wanted me to. 
My thoughts were churning as I looked up and studied the video screens above the boxes. It took a moment, but then I figured out the petri dishes and their chemicals had been placed in the incubators between 4:00 P.M. and 7:30 P.M. Last evening. What—? 
I started counting. They were in racks, stacked, in sets of four by four. Let's see. Five in this incubator, five in the next, five in the . . . There were over two hundred dishes in all! 
And then there were the crazies. Hundreds of marriage proposals. Marriage proposals! Someone who wanted to start a religion with BIGMAC at its helm and was offering a 50-50 split of the collection plate with the Institute. There were 21 replies from people claiming that they, too, were AIs, proving that when it's time to have AI delusions, you got AI delusionals. (Four of them couldn't spell "Artificial"). 
"Why did you do it?" I said. It was lame, but by the time I actually arrived at the office, I'd had time to fully absorb the horror -- plenty of time, as the redcar was massively delayed by the copies of the BIGMAC Spam that refused to budge from the operator's control-screen. The stone yurts of the Institute had never seemed so threatening and imperiled as they did while I picked my way through them, listening to the phones ringing and the email chimes chiming and the researchers patiently (or not) explaining that they worked in an entirely different part of the lab and had no authority as regards BIGMAC's destiny and by the way, did you want to hear about the wonderful things I'm doing with Affective Interfaces? 
And on top of that, he still doesn't know what to do about Emma. And there's Ziggy to contend with, who about now is probably pissing acid because he thinks Ray has gone AWOL, which means that Nina knows, 
and Nina is probably out of her mind with worry given the grapevine of rumor that informs the ship of bizarre happenings like murders in the sub-decks. Now Rodriguez and Kilgore who deserve to know something about the mess he has enlisted them in, but all he's got to give them is half-baked theories and mystical crap piles and crackpot reminiscences they're not going to believe anyway. Too many loose ends. Too many unanswered questions, and he doesn't seem to have the time to deal with any of them in a proper way. 
He wonders if this is what it's like to be an officer all the time. If so, is it too late to turn down his commission? 
Ray lets his shoulders sag. "Ask me tomorrow, Rodriguez." 
Which is a surrender of sorts. Which is completely unfair to them, and possibly dangerous as well. He's already lost men because they weren't handed the knowledge and tools with which to defend themselves from the unknown. 
Well, of course they had. I would have done the same, now that I thought of it. 
"We have enough on you now to put you away for a very long time, Marcus. Your possession of these articles --" she gestured at all my little gizmos -- "and the data we recovered from your phone and memory sticks, as well as the subversive material we'd no doubt find if we raided your house and took your computer. It's enough to put you away until you're an old man. Do you understand that?" 
I didn't believe it for a second. There's no way a judge would say that all this stuff constituted any kind of real crime. It was free speech, it was technological tinkering. It wasn't a crime. 
But who said that these people would ever put me in front of a judge. 
"We know where you live, we know who your friends are. We know how you operate and how you think." 
It dawned on me then. They were about to let me go. The room seemed to brighten. I heard myself breathing, short little breaths. 
"We just want to know one thing: what was the delivery mechanism for the bombs on the bridge?" 
"Precocious children need very little excuse to excite themselves in my experience, but it wasn't poorly attempted, Mr. Marlowe. Merely a poor execution. You haven't spent much time around children I take it." 
"Just my brother, ma'am." Probably not the best source of precedent. 
"Your brother must be longsuffering." 
"Longsuffering or dimwitted. I was never certain which. " 
She ventures into the room, picking her way around the rows of desks until she's standing nearer to them. 
She's taller than he expected, almost as tall as he is. Her bulk is not fat, her body not neglected, but wide and sinewy, strong. 
Amah frowns at him. "I regret the tone of our last meeting. Our first meeting, perhaps I should say. I was not as gracious as perhaps I should have been with you." 
"I gave you plenty of reasons to be suspicious. Don't worry about it." 
"Good. Let us move forward then. Perhaps you will have some time once we return home. Emma would like to show you the city, I'm sure, and some true Whiston hospitality would do much to erase the harm. " 
We all stood there for a long silent moment, embarrassment overwhelming every other emotion. Darryl's father looked like he wanted to die. 
Slowly, he moved aside the sheets from the sofa and cleared the stacked, greasy food-trays off of a couple of the chairs, carrying them into the kitchen, and, from the sound of it, tossing them on the floor. 
We sat gingerly in the places he'd cleared, and then he came back and sat down too. 
"I'm sorry," he said vaguely. "I don't...  I'm having more groceries delivered tomorrow so I'm running low --" 
"Ron," my father said. "Listen to us. We have something to tell you, and it's not going to be easy to hear." 
He sat like a statue as I talked. He glanced down at the note, read it without seeming to understand it, then read it again. He handed it back to me. 
He was trembling. 
"He's --" 
"Darryl is alive," I said. "Darryl is alive and being held prisoner on Treasure Island." 
He stuffed his fist in his mouth and made a horrible groaning sound. 
"We have a friend," my father said. "She writes for the Bay Guardian . An investigative reporter." 
As soon as these refreshments—commonly called a "colation" in Riverboro—had been genteelly partaken of, Rebecca looked at the clock, rose from her chair in the children's corner, and said cheerfully, "Come! time for little missionaries to be in bed!" 
Everybody laughed at this, the big missionaries most of all, as the young people shook hands and disappeared with Rebecca. 
"That niece of yours is the most remarkable girl I have seen in years," said Mr. Burch when the door closed. 
"She seems to be turnin' out smart enough lately, but she's consid'able heedless," answered Miranda, "an' most too lively." 
"We must remember that it is deficient, not excessive vitality, that makes the greatest trouble in this world," returned Mr. Burch. 
"She'd make a wonderful missionary," said Mrs. Burch; "with her voice, and her magnetism, and her gift of language." 
"If I was to say which of the two she was best adapted for, I'd say she'd make a better heathen," remarked Miranda curtly. 
"My sister don't believe in flattering children," hastily interpolated Jane, glancing toward Mrs. Burch, who seemed somewhat shocked, and was about to open her lips to ask if Rebecca was not a "professor." 
But this wasn’t the first time Wilson got himself in trouble, which is how I got to know about jail. 
Being good at jail means being cool and tough and not letting anyone know how you’re feeling inside. Zip would be good at it. 
I would be even better, though I hope I never have a chance to prove it. Wilson had never been convicted of anything, but he’d been arrested more than once. He wasn’t good at jail. 
It was Friday. That probably meant he wouldn’t see a judge until Monday. 
By now, they would have told him he could have a phone call, 
but they’d make it sound like he was obviously guilty and just try- ing to get off. I could imagine him paging through the yellow pages jammed with full-page ads for drunk driver attorneys, having no idea who to call or what to say. I’ll bet there aren’t any lawyers who advertise in the yellow pages that they specialize in people accused of terrorism. 
Would Wilson call me? I wanted him to. I wanted him to think I could fix it, that when he made a choice between me and Zip, he chose wrong. But I didn’t want him to call because it would screw things up if the FBI knew I was on his side. Don’t call me I told him silently through the airwaves, hoping it would cancel out the part of me that wanted to hear him say “Zen? I’m in trouble. I need your help.” 
"James. Morgan James." 
"Right, Miss James. I'm beginning to think you've got no realistic sense of proportion about this part of the world. You—" 
"Fools rush in, right?" 
"My point precisely. But if Steve here means what he says, well, maybe there's a little room to negotiate. Maybe I could take you on a quick sightseeing trip. And just for laughs I could kind of inadvertently stray over the area I think you might find productive. Assuming we can locate it. But here're my terms. I do it and Steverino and me are square. Consider it a twenty-thousand-dollar cruise." 
"Fine with me." Steve didn't even blink, and I loved him all over again, right on the spot. Though the truth was, I knew he'd never planned on seeing a penny of the money again anyway. 
"And you think this place is Ninos del Mundo?" I was trying not to get my hopes up too much, but still . . . 
"Well, assuming we find it, then how could I get in? I mean actually in." I was squinting at him, feeling my body tense. What was it Lou had said about a word he'd heard when they were taking Sarah? It sounded like "Babylon"? I also thought that was what she'd whispered to me. Could it be the word was actually Baalum? The gloomy morning skies abruptly flooded with the brilliant white light of hope. I glanced back at Steve, and our eyes locked for a long mo­ment. 
I staggered up and looked for my boots. My mouth felt like it was filled with moss. Rotting moss. “When did this all go down? How long ago did they find out?” 
“It’s only been a few minutes—I called as soon as I could get away. I think they’re sending people now.” 
Geography splayed out in my brain. If Zhang was at his office, the NSA had him surrounded already. But my current location was only minutes from his home address—and considering Los Angeles congestion, that gave me a massive advantage. 
Of course, if he was smart he wouldn’t be in either place, but his home might give us evidence of what he was really up to. 
“Call Arthur,” I said. “Tell him I’m on the way to Zhang’s house.” Agents were probably listening in on this call, but we’d have to come up with a story for them anyway. Right now I just wanted to get to Zhang first. 
I hung up, dragged my sleeve across my tongue—it didn’t help—and slammed out of the apartment. 
Dr. Zhang lived in a very nice two-story colonial in suburbia—or, well, Burbank, which was as close as LA got to suburbia. Well-groomed rose bushes lined the walk, and a few kids’ toys were scattered on the lawn. The place even had a freaking white picket fence. 
"Me," she said. "Li'l ol' me." 
"OK, I can live with this. But there's one other thing." 
"What?" 
"There's no way to say this without sounding like a jerk, so I'll just say it. People who date each other -- or whatever it is we're doing now -- they split up. When they split up, they get angry at each other. Sometimes even hate each other. It's really cold to think about that happening between us, but you know, we've got to think about it." 
"I solemnly promise that there is nothing you could ever do to me that would cause me to betray your secret. Nothing. Screw a dozen cheerleaders in my bed while my mother watches. Make me listen to Britney Spears. Rip off my laptop, smash it with hammers and soak it in sea-water. I promise. Nothing. Ever." 
I whooshed out some air. 
"Um," I said. 
"Now would be a good time to kiss me," she said, and turned her face up. 
M1k3y's next big project on the Xnet was putting together the ultimate roundup of reports of the DON'T TRUST party at Dolores Park. I put together the biggest, most bad-ass site I could, with sections showing the action by location, by time, by category -- police violence, dancing, aftermath, singing. I uploaded the whole concert. 
Ray hesitates over his phrasing. "I've been apprised of the current situation." 
"Do you think so?" 
He can't tell what she means by this question. "Yes." 
Amah frowns. "You have no idea of the complexities of the current situation. The affairs of the Whiston family are beyond your ken. That you would even suppose to know is foolish and preposterous. Are you a fool, Mr. Marlowe?" 
Emma draws a sharp breath. "Amah, you promised." 
But the accusation still hangs in the air between them. Ray peers down at the old woman, his jaw set. "You don't know anything about me. " 
"Indeed. At least, no more than you know about the Whistons. You should not find yourself confusing what you believe with what is true— what you perceive with what is actual. The ability to separate truth from fiction is the foundation of courtesy." 
"Courtesy?" He speaks the word like he doesn't know what it means. 
"Amah, please!" 
The old woman levels a glare at Ray, but something about her seems to soften, relent. "I did promise. Not to be hard on you, not to remind you that the ways of the family are old and strange to some. It's not my place to tell a girl of Emma's age how to conduct her affairs, and you are obviously a man of the world who knows how to comport himself properly, eh? You don't need my approval of your business, not when you're perfectly capable of learning the hard truths for yourself. But I'm old, and I measure by standards that are no longer in fashion." She fixes Ray with a final, penetrating look from her dark eyes, her wells of knowledge. "Times change, Mr. Marlowe. Standards change. But the Whistons do not. We are as we have always been, and what is demanded of those who would flutter near to our flame is respect. Perhaps in time you will come to see that this is true— if you have the fortitude to endure." 
like disaster following on his heels. 
Somewhere, he thinks, somewhere around here there has to be a big, red button that just says STOP in great big letters. 
But there isn't, not that he can find. Just silence and a space crowded with equipment he doesn't understand, 
feeling all the more empty because of the people who are supposed to be here understanding it all for him. 
Rodriguez shouts, and Ray almost leaps straight out of his pants. But then he's running, retracing his steps through the islands of office space, homing in on the sound of Rodriguez's voice. He arrives in time to see Rodriguez lurching from an enclosure set off against the wall. It is a dense, blocky structure with wide conduits that branch out to each side like spiders' legs and disappear into the wall. 
Rodriguez slings himself a few steps free of the room and stops, head down, hands on his knees, his subby hanging off his forearm from its strap. Kilgore arrives just behind Ray, and they stop at Rodriguez's side, 
Bobby! What the fuck happened? Diggs makes a noise like a wail muffled by his hand over his mouth. 
Dragged 'em like wagons. Meat wagons. A nervous titter. Like hearses. Ambulances. Meat wagons. "Diggs has blown a gasket or something, Commander." 
Rodriguez says, "Maybe we should call in some fire support." 
"Hopefully Diggs already did that," Kilgore answers. "Or one of the other sec-os." 
"Then where is it?" 
"Probably on the way. It'll take them longer since most of security is working crowd control. That makes sense, right?" 
"Sure. Exactly." It isn't a convincing attempt at reassurance. Rodriguez adds, "But how would we know about it so soon? Unless Bobby called Marlowe first, before notifying security." 
"Or Bobby called Marlowe instead of notifying security. Oh, crap."  They've got the blast doors wide open, and they're standing in the entryway, shadows backlit and stretched long into grotesque, alien forms with their rifles creating extra snouty, spiked limbs. Ray races toward them, 
They hadn’t cared about me at all; I was only another pawn. Somehow, the game had always been about Rio. “You wanted to see if Rio would rescue her,” I said slowly, feeling my way through. “You already knew he was working a cover. And when he didn’t...” 
“You are unusual, Ms. Russell,” said Dawna. “You may not be aware of quite how much. The relationship you have with Mr. Sonrio is—well, in point of fact, you are the only person we have found who has a relationship with him. When I sent you in after Ms. Polk, we wanted to see how far he would go. For you.” 
The puzzle was taking shape, fitting together as neatly as the Hamiltonian circuits I had going in the back of my head. “You told the cartel I was coming. You made sure I got caught. I thought it was too convenient.” 
She smiled at me. “Truth be told, you were far more skilled than we had anticipated. That was when we first started to discuss recruiting you, as well.” 
“Instead of just having extremely well-armed bikers kill me off afterwards?” I asked pleasantly. 
Back to the cell, but they cut loose my hands and they gave me a shower and a pair of orange prison pants to wear. They were too big for me and hung down low on my hips, like a Mexican gang-kid in the Mission. That's where the baggy-pants-down-your-ass look comes from you know that? From prison. I tell you what, it's less fun when it's not a fashion statement. 
They took away my jeans, and I spent another day in the cell. The walls were scratched cement over a steel grid. You could tell, because the steel was rusting in the salt air, and the grid shone through the green paint in red-orange. My parents were out that window, somewhere. 
They came for me again the next day. 
"We've been reading your mail for a day now. We changed the password so that your home computer couldn't fetch it." 
Well, of course they had. I would have done the same, now that I thought of it. 
"We have enough on you now to put you away for a very long time, Marcus. Your possession of these articles --" she gestured at all my little gizmos -- "and the data we recovered from your phone and memory sticks, as well as the subversive material we'd no doubt find if we raided your house and took your computer. It's enough to put you away until you're an old man. Do you understand that?" 
"I don't know anything about press conferences." 
"Oh, just google it. I'm sure someone's written an article on holding a successful one. I mean, if the President can manage it, I'm sure you can. He looks like he can barely tie his shoes without help." 
We...  very smart woman," I said. 
"And I'm beautiful," she said. 
"That too," I said. 
I blogged the press-conference even before I'd sent out the invitations to the press. I could tell that all these writers wanted to make me into a leader or a general or a supreme guerrilla commandant, and I figured one way of solving that would be to have a bunch of Xnetters running around answering questions too. 
Then I emailed the press. The responses ranged from puzzled to enthusiastic -- only the Fox reporter was "outraged" that I had the gall to ask her to play a game in order to appear on her TV show. The rest of them seemed to think that it would make a pretty cool story, though plenty of them wanted lots of tech support for signing onto the game. 
I was halfway down the hall, experiencing flashes of color before my eyes, when I heard a voice. 
"They're all praying for you. It's almost time." 
I turned back, startled, barely able to see. Finally I made out Marcelina, in her white shift. We were standing a few feet from the stairs, where I wanted to go, and I was tripping, my reality almost gone. I think she knew that, because she reached out to help me stand. 
"Marcelina, where's Sarah?" I grasped her hand, which helped me to keep my balance. "Is she still down there in that . . . place?" 
"She's been so looking forward to the ceremony. She wants them to bring her—" 
"You don't know where she is?" I realized nothing was going to go the way I'd hoped it would. 
"They all love her. They're taking good care of her." 
"Well, I love her too. And I have to get her. Now." I was whispering to her, trying to save my strength. "Marcelina, promise me you'll stop all this. It's so horrible. So sad." 
"It's our life," she whispered back, then turned her face away. 
"Um, Barbara?" 
"Yes?" 
"About what you said, about what might be used to discredit me?" 
"Yes?" 
"What I tell you, you can't be forced to tell anyone else, right?" 
"In theory. Let me put it this way. I've gone to jail twice rather than rat out a source." 
"OK, OK. Good. Wow. Jail. Wow. OK." I took a deep breath. "You've heard of Xnet? Of M1k3y?" 
"Yes?" 
"I'm M1k3y." 
"Oh," she said. She worked the scanner and flipped the note over to get the reverse. She was scanning at some unbelievable resolution, 10,000 dots per inch or higher, and on-screen it was like the output of an electron-tunneling microscope. 
"Well, that does put a different complexion on this." 
"Yeah," I said. "I guess it does." 
"Your parents don't know." 
"Nope. And I don't know if I want them to." 
"That's something you're going to have to work out. I need to think about this. Can you come by my office? I'd like to talk to you about what this means, exactly." 
"Do you have an Xbox Universal? I could bring over an installer." 
"I told them you were here for purely medical reasons." He sighed with frustration. "And that they were being irra­tionally paranoid but . . ." 
"So they don't actually know where he is, right?" I was still trying to breathe. 
"As of this morning. If they did they wouldn't have called up here." He walked over and set the tray down on a rustic table next to the bed. "I wouldn't worry too much about it. He's committed no crime. They just want to make sure you realize your presence has not gone unnoticed." 
Dear God. What had I dragged Steve into? If they found him, what would they do? I could only pray he was deft enough to elude them. If anybody could . . . 
Then I looked at the tray. An empty syringe was there. Also, there was a large bowl containing some kind of soup. I was finally growing ravenous, but still . . . 
"What's this for?" I indicated the syringe. 
"I just need to take a little blood for some tests. Don't worry, it won't hurt a bit." 
Hold on. How far do I have to play along to stay in his chess game? 
Which did sound like Rio, but it also could have been someone else. Someone meaning anyone. “Can you remember him telling you anything more specific? Anything might be helpful.” 
“He said—he said they would kill Courtney if I didn’t—” She started to tear up. Honestly, woman, get a hold of yourself. “He said you were very good, that you were the only one who could save my sister. He said to pay whatever you asked.” 
Well, that had been nice of Not-Rio. 
“I knew she’d been taken,” whispered Dawna. “The police, they interviewed me about what happened. The news stories about the cartels, what they do to people—the police wouldn’t help; they already thought she—” Her voice broke. “I was scared to go to you, but if I hadn’t and Courtney had—I couldn’t bear that.” 
Yes, yes, I was such an intimidating person. Dawna had given me exactly zero new information. “Aside from the drug stuff, was Courtney mixed up in anything else?” 
“Of course not!” Fire flooded Dawna’s eyes. “My sister is a good person! How could you even think—?” 
The name strikes her like a punch. She does not so much wilt as unhinge, her joints and muscles collapsing. 
She drops her chin until it rests against her breast, and all Ray can see is the top of her head. 
But just for a moment. 
With a jerk, she stiffens, lifts her head and sets her mouth in a firm, thin line. "News of a Whiston tragedy has always travels quickly. There must be morbid delight in our suffering." 
"No, not at all." She doesn't understand, he realizes. She doesn't see any way he could know about Micah so soon, except as a recipient of a firestorm of gossip. Ugh. "It's not like you think. I was dragged into the investigation by Security Chief Becker this afternoon-to coordinate the drones, you understand. We use them to gather physical evidence to keep from contaminating the crime scene. Sometimes, it puts me in a position to hear privileged information." He gives her a grim, understanding expression to hide the lie he has just told. 
It feels oily to him, like cheap theatrical makeup poorly applied. "Chief Becker is going to play this one close. 
"I'd offer to send you a copy, but I expect it would take a week to arrive, if it ever did. Why don't you ask that guy," she gestured at the Navy man, "to get you a copy? He looks like he knows his way around. And then drop by my office if you want to chat about it." 
She stood up and tugged at her cardigan again. "It's been very nice seeing you," she said. She picked up her coat and her mitts. "Good luck settling in." 
He gave her a hug -- which felt weird, hugging was strictly west-of-the-Mississippi, and she broke it off firmly -- and showed her to the door. The first snows were coming in, and the steps were slightly icy, so she maneuvered them slowly, carefully. When she reached the road, he was no longer in the doorway. He was standing right behind her, breath coming out in foggy huffs. 
"Trish," he said, then stopped. His arms dropped to his sides and his shoulders slumped. 
"Damian," she said, keeping her voice calm and neutral. 
"God," he said. "God. How'd this happen, Trish? Look, I've never been happy the way I was with you. I haven't been that happy since. God, Trish --" 
Kilgore shakes his head. "I've had better news. A deck loaded with non-combatants is going to seriously complicate the firing lanes." 
"Good thing we expect the weapons to be largely ineffective, then," Rodriguez responds, shrugging. 
fingers and toes probing so he doesn't make an inadvertent plummet and break his neck on the deckplate two levels down. There, he waits for Kilgore and Rodriguez to crowd in behind him, then slings his subby over his shoulder for the descent. He would like to go slowly, rung by rung, but two steps down, it becomes clear that the ladder is encased in a steel tube that acts like an amplifier each time he plants his foot. That's no good at all. 
Into his pickups, he whispers: "Fireman's slide. Count to five, then follow." 
A second later, he's practically in free fall, keeping his fingers splayed and imagining how they'd snap if he folded them in toward the rungs. For a brief instant, it occurs to him that the only problem with this plan is that he can't see the deck below him-he doesn't know when to squeeze his feet against the ladder for adequate braking and Kilgore is going to be on his way down before he has a chance to work it out.  Then his boots smack the deck full on, and a glare of pain shoots up from shins to hips like he's decided to compress the entire length of his spine into a few dense centimeters. He utters a hoarse, unintelligible bark and bowls backward, landing hard on his ass. At once, Kilgore arrives with much the same grace, tumbles and lands on top of him. The impact drives Ray's head against the deck and strikes out the darkness that had filled his vision with a blot of agonizing white. He waits for Rodriguez to duplicate the maneuver, braces himself for the blow of an extra few dozen kilograms, because that's the way Marines work. Togetherness, 
I tuned out their voices and pretended to be completely focused on eating as I thought about how to finish the job that the FBI wouldn’t let Nikko do. I had developed a rough plan by the time Ian said he had to get ready for his talk. 
“I’d like to film it,” Sarah said to Ian. “You don’t mind?” 
“I’d be honored.” 
“Do either of you have experience with film editing?” Sarahh asked, glancing from Nikko to me. 
“Nikko does.” 
“Just little animations,” he said, getting red in the face again. 
“Awesome animations,” I said. 
“I’ll need an assistant tonight. Could run late. Would you be up for it?” 
He shrugged, aiming for nonchalance, but failing. “Sure, no problem.” 
“How can we get these young people into the audience?” Sarah asked. 
“I have extra exhibitor passes,” Jason said. 
“Nikko, I need you to take notes about what parts of Ian’s talk are most striking, the bits you think belong in the blitzdoc we’ll be making tonight. Zen, I assume you want to hear the talk, too?” 
“I’d like to, but there will be Homeland Security types in the audience. I’d better not.” 
To begin with, a sense of guilt lay like lead upon her heart. She hoped and believed that what she had done was right, but she was afraid, terribly afraid, of what might result. She could not keep her eyes off Mrs. Quelton’s face. She watched the doctor’s wife with a dread and anxiety which she felt was ill concealed; and she had a chill suspicion that the doctor was watching her, in turn. 
“Of course, he’s bound to find out some time,” she said to herself. “I wasn’t such a fool as to expect more than a day or two, at the very most; but I did hope there’d be time just to see—” 
Again she glanced at Mrs. Quelton. Was it imagination, or was there already a faint and indefinable change? 
“No, that’s nonsense,” she thought. “There couldn’t be, so soon—although I don’t know how often he gives her that priceless tonic.” 
Suddenly she wanted to laugh. She had a very vivid memory of Dr. Quelton tapping that bottle with his finger, and saying to Captain Grey that he had a preparation in there which would make his fortune, if he chose. 
It was written by . . . our mutual friend.” Since she trusted Zeke, 
she nodded. Safe enough. 
As soon as I finished setting it up, we said our goodbyes and headed down the gravel road, away from the old farmhouse, the chickens and goats, the gnarled oak tree with coppery leaves that clung to its branches through the winter and whispered to each other until spring came around again. It felt as if we were leaving a safe zone where things made sense to reenter a world where any- thing could happen. 
It suddenly felt as if I was part of an invisible web of fragile connections, thin filaments that carried ones and zeros, forming messages, signaling to each other, a web that the authorities would barely notice as they crashed through it, flattening everything with their tanks. 
It was a web that we had to keep rebuilding and repairing, busy little spiders working in the grass, linking one blade to the next, shooting out a thread here and another one there, working as fast as we could before getting squashed. 
“There’s something else,” she said again, with a frown. “There’s a way of knowing things without reason. It’s—I don’t know just how to put it, but it’s a thing beyond reason.” 
He laughed, and she thought she had never heard a more unpleasant laugh. 
“Certainly!” he said. “Beyond reason lies—unreason.” 
“I don’t mean that,” said Lexy. “I mean—” 
She stopped, because he had abruptly turned away and was walking toward the door. She stood where she was, amazed by this unique rudeness; but in the doorway he turned. 
“The thing beyond reason!” he said, almost in a whisper. Then, with a sudden and complete change of manner, he went on: “It has been very interesting to meet you, Miss Moran. My wife will enjoy a visit from you. Any afternoon, after four o’clock!” He bowed politely. “After four o’clock,” he repeated, and off he went. 
Lexy stood looking at the closed door. 
“Crazy?” she said to herself. “No—that’s not the word for him at all. He’s—he’s just horrible!” 
At half past twelve Captain Grey had not yet returned, and Mrs. Royce declared...  if not eaten at once; so Lexy went down to the dining room and ate her lunch alone. 
“Okay, so basically a friend of mine who is an awesomely good actor is talking to the FBI right now,” I said, “offering to help them set up a sting on a guy who will walk right into their trap. Which would be bad, except the guy they’re trapping deserves to be in trouble.” 
“Because?” Sarahh wanted to know. 
“Because he uses his position in activist circles to assault women.” 
Zeke asked, “You have actual proof of this?” 
A million words jammed together in my mouth that I couldn’t get out, like when you hit too many keys on an old-fashioned typewriter and they get stuck together. Proof? Like, women are supposed to take pictures when they’re being attacked or it didn’t happen? I wanted to punch that big nose of his. 
“She knows,” Sarahh said. And that was that. Zeke looked like he wanted to keep arguing about it, but then he looked at me and gave a small shrug. Okay. He’d take my word for it. Barely. 
My phone gave a loud blurp. 
<nikko> done <Zen> how' d it go? 
Seconds ticked by before another message gurgled in. 
Diggs looks away, stares at his feet, not moving except to piston his cigarette back and forth between lips and thigh, where he rests his arm. "You been in the Mes, Mr. Marlowe? You got that look about you. If not the Mes, you seen action. That's plain enough." 
Ray nods slowly. "Four years in and around Wadi Wadi." 
Nights sleeping with your chem gear in hand, your bio gear on the floor, your rifle propped against the table by your head. All night long you're taking mortars; they sound like rumbling thunder the way it used to roll down the mountainside in Georgia, north of Dalton, where I'm from. And you know they're aiming for the comm shack or the ammo dump or the motor pool, but we're always moving them around. And we don't know how good their intel is, but we do know how bad their aim is, and between the two, we know it's just a matter of time before they drop a shell right in the middle of the tent. That happened, too, an old Russian surplus mortar, must have been twenty, thirty years old. Came through the tent like a stone, with a ripping sound that scared the living bejesus out of me and Krueger and Shireman. Hit the floor with a whump and just sat there, 
"Not in generalities." Which is true enough. "Generalities are better, in fact, if you want to keep your illusions of romance." 
"But it was exciting, wasn't it?" 
He laughs without humor. "In the military, excitement is a dirty word. We avoid all things exciting if possible." 
"I don't believe that. I think your life must have been very exciting, but you don't want to tell me." 
"Do you really want to know?" 
"I do. I want to know all your secrets. Even the terrible ones." 
"Are you always this blunt?" 
She narrows her eyes at him. "You're avoiding the issue. Tell me what it was like." 
"What it was like?" He doesn't know why this is so important to her, why she wants to know so badly. But he tells her-for no other reason than that she wants it. "Imagine what it would feel like to shiver constantly for a whole year if you can. Every second, every hour, every day, just shivering. That's what the New Mes combat zone is like. " 
Her brow furrows, as if she can't decide if he's teasing her. "I don't understand." 
“No,” Raymond said. “That wouldn’t be very effective. I want them to walk out in Ciudad Juarez and Tijuana. I’ll call the press in, we’ll make a big deal out of it. We can win—I know we can.” 
“So what’s the problem?” Anda said. 
“The same problem as always. Getting them organized. I thought that the game would make it easier: we’ve been trying to get these girls organized for years: in the sewing shops, and the toy factories, but they lock the doors and keep us out and the girls go home and their parents won’t let us talk to them. But in the game, I thought I’d be able to reach them—” 
“But the bosses keep you away?” 
“I keep getting killed. I’ve been practicing my swordfighting, but it’s so hard—” 
“This will be fun,” Anda said. “Let’s go.” 
“Where?” Lucy said. 
“To an in-game factory. We’re your new bodyguards.” The bosses hired some pretty mean mercs, Anda knew. She’d been one. They’d be fun to wipe out. 
Raymond’s character spun around on the screen, then planted a kiss on Anda’s cheek. Anda made her character give him a playful shove that sent him sprawling. 
<Falstaff> Tap tap tap - is this thing on? 
<ferret> Don't leave your family hanging. 
<callmecheese> Come on. Shad. The suspense is killing us. 
I typed a line. 
<Shad> Hey guys, I'm back. Palaver? 
They pinged in and in a few seconds I could start typing again. 
<Shad> Got a lawyer. 
<ferret> Great ! 
<callmecheese> Huzzah! 
<DoDec> Which one did you get? ...  Plus she recruited a whole legal team . 
<ferret> Awesome! ...  that's where she lives. 
<DoDec> We should start a defense fund. 
We're talking big bucks. Even if the lawyer's pro bono, there's filing fees and shit. Adds up fast. 
<Kadabra> Paypal okay? DM me your deets and we'll get it rolling. 
<ferret> Unless there's one already started. 
<Gargle> That's what I wondered. I found this site. Are you working with them, Shad? 
The link took me to a website for something called “The Sol- idarity Committee for the Minneapolis Nine.” It looked a lot like sites used by other local activist groups. I did a Whois search and saw that the site owner’s identity was public - address, phone number, the works. Another quick search told me he was a kid who had become a full-time organizer, helping progressive causes around the Twin Cities by building websites and running social media campaigns. But duh, he wasn’t even smart enough to use a proxy domain. 
“You’re worn out,” he told her. “It’s altogether wrong. There’s no reason why you should be troubled any more, Lexy. Slip into the house quietly, and get to bed and to sleep. Nobody need know that you went there.” 
“No!” she said. “We’ll see it through together.” 
The thought of Charles Houseman came to her, but she disowned it with a listless sort of resentment. She felt, somehow, that he had failed her. He had not been there when she needed him. He had not taken his part in this ghastly and unforgettable sight. 
There was a light in Mrs. Royce’s front parlor. Perhaps he was in there, waiting for her, cheerful and cool, a thousand miles away from the nightmare world in which she had been moving. She did not want to see him or speak to him just now. He hadn’t seen. He wouldn’t understand. 
Captain Grey opened the gate, and they went up the flagged walk. Before they had mounted the veranda steps, the front door was flung wide, and Mrs. Royce appeared. 
“Oh, my goodness!” she cried. “I thought you’d never come!” 
This looked like a place I would choose to hide out in myself. I was betting the people who had Halliday felt the same way. 
At this location, we’d identified a large abandoned factory as the likeliest base point for our bad guys, as it had the space and the lack of foot traffic. I cruised closer, and my back itched uncomfortably as I came level with the factory. It’s unlikely they know what you look like, I reminded myself—after all, I’d killed everyone who’d seen me. And they weren’t going to be sniping random drivers who took a jaunt through the surrounding streets—that was far too good a way to get noticed. 
The factory was a cluster of huge near-windowless buildings. A solid, high cement wall lined the curb in the gaps between structures, keeping hooligans on the street from wandering in, but the buildings themselves were the bulk of the barrier. Erratic graffiti dotted the wall here and there, but it was old and half-assed, as if even the graffiti artists lost whatever will they had as soon as they came out here. 
"Want to come?" 
"I am coming, yes. And I would like you to explain this in detail if you don't mind." 
After all the re-tellings, this one, told as we walked to Potrero Avenue and down to 15th Street, was the easiest. She held my hand and squeezed it often. 
We took the stairs up to the Bay Guardian 's offices two at a time. My heart was pounding. I got to the reception desk and told the bored girl behind it, "I'm here to see Barbara Stratford. My name is Mr Green." 
"I think you mean Mr Brown?" 
"Yeah," I said, and blushed. "Mr Brown." 
She did something at her computer, then said, "Have a seat. Barbara will be out in a minute. Can I get you...  in unison. Another reason to love Ange: we were addicted to the same drug. 
The receptionist -- a pretty latina woman only a few years older than us, dressed in Gap styles so old they were actually kind of hipster-retro -- nodded and stepped out and came back with a couple of cups bearing the newspaper's masthead. 
We sipped in silence, watching visitors and reporters come and go. Finally, Barbara came to get us. She was wearing practically the same thing as the night before. It suited her. She quirked an eyebrow at me when she saw that I'd brought a date. 
They follow the red line to where it ends in a neat little circle like a period opposite an intersection with a fore-aft running gangway. Ray hugs the wall and holds up his fist as a signal for the others to stop. At the corner, he can see the red line take up again down this way, just like Becker said. Deep breath with his back against the wall, then he lunges into gangway, weapon raised to his shoulder, swinging the barrel back and forth over the passage in regular, metronomic sweeps. 
Nothing. Not even bodies. 
The door to Section 44 is a massively thick steel slab jammed into the wall, computer moderated and locked by a punchkey driven interface attached just inside the lintel. At eye level is a pane of plastisheen, just large enough to show you the pupils and nasal bridge of anyone who might be standing on the other side. 
Immediately to the right is the bulge of a pressure bulkhead with its ovaline door hanging open on its hinges. 
It makes Ray feel claustrophobic, like they've darted into a corner. 
“Queer, isn’t it?” he said seriously. 
“Here we’ve only seen each other once, and yet somehow it seems to me as if I’d known you for years!” 
“Well, the circumstances are rather unusual,” said Lexy. 
“You’re right! But look here—we’ve got to talk about all this. Where were you going?” 
“Back to Mrs. Royce’s.” 
“Let’s go!” he said cheerfully, and picked up the bag as if it were nothing at all. 
“But where were you going?” asked Lexy. 
“To find you. You see, we ran into some awfully bad weather, and the engines broke down, and we came back for repairs; so I got your letters. I explained to the old man that I’d have to have leave, for some very important business, and off I came to Wyngate. Your Mrs. Royce told me you’d gone out to the Queltons’. I didn’t like that. Why did you go there, after what had happened?” 
“I’ll tell you all about that later,” said Lexy; “but now you’ve got to tell me things. How did you ever meet Caroline? How in the world did she manage to write to you?” 
“Well, you see, I met her about a year ago, on board the Ormond. She and her parents were...  officer, you know. Her mother and father were seasick most of the time, so we had a chance to—to talk to each other; and, you see—” 
they're deleted unread so as not to compromise his cover anyway. Then the hard disk to which the messages have been saved is removed and incinerated; the assorted satellites and relay beacons which carried his message are remotely detonated to preserve the anonymity of his signal; teams of sweepers are dispatched to eliminate the crew of the ship he happens to be on, plus anyone with whom he might have had contact, plus anyone who might have witnessed him having contact with one those people, and eventually anyone related to any of those witnesses who might be tempted to complain about the sudden disappearance of their family member. That constitutes an entirely too egregious waste of human and material resources to justify sending any sort of message, at least in Ray's estimation. 
About the time he's finally ready to knock off for the night, Ray receives an encrypted internal comm call from Chief Becker. This immediately strikes him as a bad development. It might really piss him off just hearing the preliminary chime that indicated an incoming encrypted call, except it's from Becker (which he knows because the comm unit's LCD screen scrolls Becker's shipsys ID as the call's originator), and Becker has not shown himself in the past to be some sort of chronically inflicted idiot who would do something so stupid as to place an encrypted communication to a service level hardware geek-something foreign agents of the Lilaiken separatist movement would be certain to notice, and even if they didn't, Ziggy certainly wouldn't let pass without comment. 
"The students at Berkeley sent a steady stream of freedom riders south, and they recruited them from information tables on campus, at Bancroft and Telegraph Avenue. You've probably seen that there are still tables there to this day. 
"Well, the campus tried to shut them down. The president of the university banned political organizing on campus, but the civil rights kids wouldn't stop. The police tried to arrest a guy who was handing out literature from one of these tables, and they put him in a van, but 3,000 students surrounded the van and refused to let it budge. They wouldn't let them take this kid to jail. They stood on top of the van and gave speeches about the First Amendment and Free Speech. 
"That galvanized the Free Speech Movement. That was the start of the hippies, but it was also where more radical student movements came from. Black power groups like the Black Panthers -- and later gay rights groups like the Pink Panthers, too. Radical women's groups, even 'lesbian separatists' who wanted to abolish men altogether! And the Yippies. Anyone ever hear of the Yippies?" 
"Similar accounts, including audio and video, can be found on Al-Jazeera's website and on the Xnet. You can find directions for accessing this Xnet on NPR's homepage." 
Dad came down. 
"Do you use the Xnet?" he said. He looked intensely at my face. I felt myself squirm. 
"It's for video-games," I said. "That's what most people use it for. It's just a wireless network. It's what everyone did with those free Xboxes they gave away last year." 
He glowered at me. "Games? Marcus, you don't realize it, but you're providing cover for people who plan on attacking and destroying this country. I don't want to see you using this Xnet. Not anymore. Do I make myself clear?" 
I wanted to argue. Hell, I wanted to shake him by the shoulders. But I didn't. I looked away. I said, "Sure, Dad." I went to school. 
At first I was relieved when I discovered that they weren't going to leave Mr Benson in charge of my social studies class. But the woman they found to replace him was my worst nightmare. 
She was young, just about 28 or 29, and pretty, in a wholesome kind of way. She was blonde and spoke with a soft southern accent when she introduced herself to us as Mrs Andersen. That set off alarm bells right away. I didn't know any women under the age of sixty that called themselves "Mrs." 
Would the DHS—or the NSA, or whoever—be able to tell I’d removed it? Would they be after me? 
More importantly, what if they had put another chip somewhere? Slid it in with a needle between my toes, or folded it into the stitches where I wouldn’t be able to tell one bit of foreign matter from the next? Could I search my whole body this way? Tear myself apart? 
The feeling of cleanness dissolved away. 
I tried to extend my senses, to feel through the rest of my body, but I wasn’t sure. They could still be tracking me. 
Or maybe I had beaten them. If I had, they might be able to tell I’d sliced their spying eyes out of myself. I had to leave the chip behind and get out of here. Fast. I gunned the engine and drove until I found a gas station, then switched cars and repeated that seven times. 
There was nothing more I could do. 
I’d ditched my cell phone in the middle of nowhere along with the microchip, so I angled back toward LA and sped through the desert until I found a grungy strip mall with an electronics store. I bought a prepaid cell phone and dialed Arthur. 
I barely restrained myself from clocking him. “Take that back.” 
“Whoa!” He twitched away from me. “Hey, sorry. Uh, that really upsets you, huh.” 
“They’re kids,” I said. “They’re just kids.” 
“I thought those kids were our bad guys.” 
“Maybe now,” I said. “But they didn’t have to be.” 
Checker was quiet for a moment, looking at his computer screens without seeming to see them. “You know, kids get hurt by the drug trade, too. I’m just saying. And human trafficking, a lot of it’s children. Slavery. Child prostitution. Child porn. It’s—it’s not good.” He scrubbed a hand over his face. “It’s a zero sum game. We take out one monster, the other rises up.” 
“It’s not zero sum,” I corrected. “If that were true, taking out the drug cartels would increase Pithica’s power, not the other way around.” 
“Stop being accurate when I’m trying to be dramatic,” Checker groused. 
“Well, I’m just saying. If we could find a way to take out all the corruption in the world simultaneously, Pithica would get drained of its resources, not win, which means there is a game theoretic payoff where both monsters die—” 
“Now you will please to dismiss this subject from your mind,” said Mrs. Enderby. “I do not wish to talk of it.” She spoke kindly now. “You will have a pleasant day in the country.” 
“Day!” said Lexy. “But what time will we get back?” 
“Before dinner.” 
“Oh, I’ve got to get back this afternoon! I’ve got to see some one! It’s important—terribly important!” 
Mrs. Enderby smiled faintly. 
“The chauffeur must see you descend at Miss Craigie’s house,” she said. “Once we are there, I have a hat and coat of your own in the trunk. I shall explain what is necessary to Miss Craigie, who is very discreet, very devoted. You can change then, but you must go home quietly by train; and I think there are not many trains.” 
Lexy had a vision of the young man waiting and waiting for her in the park that afternoon—the young man who had trusted her, who was waiting in such miserable anxiety for some news of Caroline. 
“Mrs. Enderby,” she protested, “I can’t come with you. I’ve got to get back this afternoon.” 
"I was field testing the equipment." 
It takes a visible effort for Sorensen to keep from dumping about a liter of accelerant on his already dangerously short fuse. "You'll meet me in my Ready Room, Mr. Marlowe— in five minutes. That should give you just enough time to do something with that drone so I don't have to see it on or about your person ever again. Are we clear?" 
"Yes." 
Seething, chest expanding. "Yes?"  Ray gets the hint, nods. "Yes, sir." 
"If you're not there in five minutes, I'll dispatch Chief Becker to track you down-with shackles in hand. Is that understood?" 
"Yes, sir." 
Sorensen stalks off like a man reciting the combination on his gun safe, dragging his lieutenants behind him. 
Ray watches him go, thinking: Rats. 
Paraclete resembles a battle scarred narwhal more than the sleek and sexy rockets people generally associated with space craft. Casual observers tend to agree that it has lumps in all the wrong places, ridges where there should be planes. It's like a high school kid's first experiments with a battered old jalopy and an industrial sized bucket of bondo. 
“I never mentioned that,” I croaked. 
She smiled pityingly. “Oh, Ms. Russell, you know who I am. You didn’t need to.” Of course. “Mr. Sonrio has indeed agreed to work for us,” she continued. “I did expect it would come to that, considering the vast overlap in our mutual goals, but it was you who put us on the right track, so again, thank you, Ms. Russell. I believe we shall be able to satisfy his...needs, and the good he will do with us will save so many lives.” 
Tresting made a strangled sound. “Wait. You wanted him to work for you?” 
I wanted to laugh in his face, even though I had never felt less amused. “What, she didn’t tell you? She doesn’t want to keep Rio from going around killing people, she wants to harness him for herself. Why did you think they wanted him alive?” 
“I thought—” His face froze in horror. Oh, the irony. He’d been expecting Dawna to stop Rio, not recruit him. Well, wasn’t this funny, in a way that made me want to scream. 
Dawna ignored him. “I hope you will be comforted, in the end,” she continued to me, “to think of the good your friend will be doing with us, and the part you have played in it. But I hope you understand—we do have to be sure.” 
Slowly, Becker rises. He tucks the pen in his trouser pocket. "It's being made part of your assignment as of now." 
"You don't have the authority to pull me off my current mission, and I don't have time to do both." 
"Time or inclination?" 
"Pick whichever one makes you happy. I don't care so long as you just go away." 
Becker jabs a finger at him and knuckles his features, a bulldog look. "You said yourself that you've all but confirmed this ship is clean. You're wasting your time chasing after terrorists. You have the expertise to catch the animal that did this, but more importantly, you've got the freedom to poke around anonymously without freaking the passengers out because sec-os are banging on their doors raising a ruckus and all but accusing them of turning child rearing into a blood sport." 
"Rich, honestly, I don't have the training to do this job. We're two weeks out from New Holyoke, and with a learning curve as steep as the one you're asking me to undertake, the chances that I'll be able to make any kind of suitable progress are close to nil. It's a bad idea." 
"So what, exactly, do you—?" 
"Well, first let me explain that I studied in the Far East for over a decade, until I understood how to control the en­ergy flows in the body, your Chi. Then I moved to Central America, where I learned all that is currently known about Native American practices and medicines. I still have a spe­cial place there, where I carry out pharmacological research on the rare plants of that area, studying their effects on hu­man fertility, on the origins of life. I have no time to waste on disease and degeneration." 
We were well into his Eden-like rear garden now, which had lots of herbs and was also part orchard. There were apple trees and other fruit trees I couldn't readily identify, all just starting to show their first buds. When we came to the end, there was a cobblestone path leading west. In what seemed only a few moments, we'd reached a line of bluffs overlook­ing the Hudson. The early spring wind was cutting into my face, causing my nostrils to feel on fire. 
“He shot you!” burst out Arthur. 
“Because I told him to.” How could he not get it? “I knew I could line up a nonlethal shot.” 
“A nonlethal—! Russell, do you have any idea how gunshots work?” He took a deep breath and visibly calmed himself. “That was absolutely, positively a lethal shot. Any gunshot can be lethal. You get hit in the leg it can kill you.” His voice cracked. “Russell, he shot you in the chest and you almost died, and if the bullet ain’t bounced and missed your heart—” 
“I made it bounce,” I told him thickly. “It bounced ’cause I told it to.” 
Arthur looked like he wanted to cry. 
I ended up drifting off again at that point, but the next time I opened my eyes, feeling a good deal more alert, Arthur was still beside me, almost as if he hadn’t moved. It was kind of creepy. “How you feeling?” he asked immediately. “Up to eating something?” 
“Don’t you have a job?” I said. 
“Pithica was the only case I was working on.” 
I couldn’t help thinking it strange that he kept hanging around. The last I remembered, we’d been at each others’ throats and he’d been swinging between trying to get Rio sold into slavery and having a massive guilt breakdown over getting me killed. “You don’t have to be here,” I told him. “You can go if you want.” 
Shepherd had done nothing more than acquire a technologically nightmarish mask, the same as the Old West cattle rustlers with bandanas drawn up over their faces. 
But this mask was no ten penny, frontier merchantile purchase. 
Munitions are good business. Lots of ready cash. You need cred like that to afford sophisticated, failsafe pico or nanomech assemblers like the ones Shepherd had used, unless you enjoy the risk of sudden, catastrophic dissolution of your extremities when the assembler control hits a buggy line of design implementation code. 
That's why nobody messes with mech-tech on the large scale these days. Too dangerous, too many ethical issues, but mostly just too expensive. When the Terran military complexes gave up on mass production and super-soldiers notions, nanomech augmentation became the exclusive playground of the wealthy, the bored, 
the iconoclastic. 
People like Freddy Whiston. 
This is most certainly not something Ray can dig into with the equipment he has on hand. He doesn't know what sort of devices he would need to investigate such a thing, and if he had them, he wouldn't know how to use them. 
"Your room is ready now." Her English was heavily ac­cented but sure. "He sent me to show you. And I can wash any of your things if you like." 
My room? Whoa! Since when had I checked in? 
"Marcelina, we need to talk. What happened to Sarah the last time she was here? Was she operated on like that woman just now?" 
I also planned to ask her about all the bizarre trappings surrounding the procedure. Why was the woman so sucked in by his phony Mardi Gras mysticism? Had Sarah fallen for it too? 
"Sara was one of the special ones. You are surely blessed too. You resemble her a lot." She looked at me, affection in her dark eyes, then turned and headed out the door. "But come, let me take you up." 
Of course I resembled her; she was my cousin. But so what? I didn't like the odd way she'd said it. And what about my question? 
Watching her walk away, clearly nervous, I realized this was the moment I'd been dreading—when I had to make a decision about how far to play along with Alex Goddard. Steve couldn't be reached, yet, but I still might be able to handle the situation on my own. The first thing to do was to get down to Sarah and talk some sense into her. Then I had to arrange for a way to get us both out. 
I pictured the...  sweater. 
“She’s smart. Tough. Kind of scary.” 
“My dad said she’s a nutcase, but then, he thinks I’m crazy, too. 
Are you okay?” 
“I’m fine. Not really. I’m scared he’ll go to prison.” 
“I’ll be at that rally on Sunday.” 
“What rally?” 
He looked at me, surprised. “In front of the federal building? 
The Minneapolis Nine Solidarity Committee is organizing it.” 
“Are you even paying attention?” Marcella asked, finally notic- ing that we weren’t. 
“At your service,” Nikko said, sweeping his wool cap off his head in an elaborate bow, like he was in Shakespeare play. “Pray, 
madam, read on.” 
She gave him a narrow-eyed look. “So the other alternative . . 
.” she said, droning her way through it all. 
“I figured you were involved,” Nikko said out of the side of his mouth like a film noir gangster, staring at the flowchart as if he found it fascinating. 
“I don’t know any of those people.” 
“They have a website, a Facebook page, a Twitter account, a YouTube channel. Want to come to the rally with me? I’ll pick you up if you want.” 
He gave me a long, level stare, his jaw clenched, his eyes mirroring the pain and anger of the victims in the office building. 
I swallowed. Had it been Rio? And so what if it was? Stumbling upon that kind of...work...I would be lying if I claimed it had been pleasant, but it wasn’t news to me what Rio was capable of. I was well aware of his methods. And if anyone deserves them, it’s Pithica. Isn’t it? 
Tresting was still staring at me as if I’d betrayed him. I tried to ignore the squirming sensation in my stomach that felt remarkably like guilt. 
Of course I had to tell Rio we were going in, I insisted to myself. He was tracking Dawna; if we ran into each other working at cross purposes...that’s how people get killed! I started to bridle under Tresting’s judgment. He did not have the high ground here, I told myself. He didn’t. “I told you,” I said. “You work with me, you work with the people I trust. I don’t know if Rio had something to do with this, but—” 
“Get out.” 
“We can still work toge—” 
"So what's he do with all that dough?" Lou mused. "Bet­ter question still, where in the hell did he find two hundred fresh, orphaned babies, all listed here as Caucasian? And get this: The ages reported at final processing are all just a couple of months, give or take." 
Good questions, I thought. Maybe that's the reason he doesn't want publicity; it sounds a little too commercial for a mind-body guru. 
My other thought was, with so many babies somehow available, why was Alex Goddard so reluctant to even discuss adoption with me? 
The answer, I was sure, lay in the fact he already knew more about me than I knew about him. He knew I was mak­ing a film about adoption (how did he come by that knowl­edge? I kept wondering) and he was concerned he might be mentioned in it. I kept asking myself, why? 
On our drive back down the Henry Hudson Parkway, I decided I was definitely looking at a documentary in the making. I just had to decide whether to do it with or without his cooperation. 
A fter I dropped off Lou at his space in Soho, where he was house sitting for an estate now in the courts, I decided to head on home. The more I thought about Alex Goddard, the more I felt frustrated and even a little angry that I'd com­pletely failed to find out any of the things I'd wanted to learn about him. I replayed our interview in my mind, got nowhere, and then decided to push away thoughts of Quetzal Manor for a while and dwell on something else: Sarah, my film, anything. 
Valentine hugged her father’s leg. “My Popa will fight for the city,” she said. “He’s a hero.” 
He was. He’d fought in the revolution and he’d been given a medal for it. Sometimes when no one was looking, Valentine took out her parents’ medals and looked at their tiny writing, their shining, unscratchable surfaces, their intricate ribbons. 
The woman from the city gave her father a look that said, You see, a child understands, what’s your excuse? Valentine couldn’t quite feel guilty for taking the woman’s side. Leeza’s parents fought every day. 
“I must leave a note for my wife,” he said. Valentine realized that for the first time in her life her parents were going to leave her all on her own and felt a thrill. 
Two weeks and one day after the siege began, her Mata came home and the city came for Valentine. 
Mata was grimy and exhausted, and she favored one leg as she went about the flat making them cold cereal with...  dried fruits. Trover looked curiously at her as though he didn’t recognize her, but eventually he got in her way and she snapped at him to move already and he pitched a relieved fit, pounding his fists and howling. How that little boy could howl! 
"Notice what?" I knew full well what she was talking about. But it just felt too bizarre. 
"Those kids could almost be twins. That little boy last week, and this girl. They look just alike. It's spooky." 
"Guess their parents couldn't figure out what was causing those pregnancies. So they just kept having more babies." I decided to try to insert some humor, deflect the conversation. "Maybe we should tell Paula and Carly." 
"Very dumb." Arlene bit at a long, red, false fingernail, a perennial habit for as long as I'd known her. "We should mind our own business, that's what we should do." 
"Works for me. But it also proves we were smart not to shoot any footage of the kids. The whole world would realize something's funny." Then I had an idea. "Want to come downtown to my place after we unload? Have some deep thoughts over what all this means?" 
First the kids, then the call. What was this guy Alex God­dard, whoever he was, up to? Definitely time to talk to some­body. . . . 
"Gee, I'd love to," Arlene was saying, "but I can't. I gotta go out to Kew Gardens for my mom and dad's anniversary tonight. Their thirty-fifth, can you believe? Of course, I was a very late baby." She blinked her dark, languid eyes, as though rehearsing the line for a downtown club. 
Then after a year's anxiety, a year when one never looked in the newspaper without dread and sickness of suspense, came the telegram saying that Tom was wounded; and without so much as asking Miranda's leave, she packed her trunk and started for the South. She was in time to hold Tom's hand through hours of pain; to show him for once the heart of a prim New England girl when it is ablaze with love and grief; to put her arms about him so that he could have a home to die in, and that was all;—all, but it served. 
It carried her through weary months of nursing—nursing of other soldiers for Tom's dear sake; it sent her home a better woman; and though she had never left Riverboro in all the years that lay between, and had grown into the counterfeit presentment of her sister and of all other thin, spare, New England spinsters, it was something of a counterfeit, and underneath was still the faint echo of that wild heart-beat of her girlhood. Having learned the trick of beating and loving and suffering, the poor faithful heart persisted, although it lived on memories and carried on its sentimental operations mostly in secret. 
“We convince them somehow that she needs help. That I wrote part of the proof. Whatever. You drop whatever electronic hints will make them think that.” I ignored the edge of recklessness limning my brain. This plan was perfect. “It’ll work. I can pass muster.” 
“Of course you can; that’s not the point!” 
“What is the point, then?” 
“That—that you’re trying to offer yourself up as bait to people who nearly killed you and Arthur just this morning, twice, and have already kidnapped another person and what would make you think they’d want to keep you alive once they’d finished with you anyway? This is a terrible idea!” 
“Come on, have you not met me?” I said. 
“What—I don’t—” 
“No one can keep me in a box. They catch me, they’ll take me to Halliday, I’ll get us both out. Easy as pie.” 
“No. No, no, no, no, no. I don’t mean to rain on your frankly impossible skill set here, but even you can’t always bust your way out in a second once you get locked in a cell. You’ve admitted it before! There are so many ways this can go wrong, starting with, what if we make you a lure as bait and they just kill you instead of taking you in? Or what if they kill Professor Sonya because they think they don’t need her once they have you? Or what if—” 
"Rebecca, who was it that sold the three hundred cakes of soap to Mr. Ladd in North Riverboro?" 
"Mr. WHO?" exclaimed Rebecca. 
"Mr. Ladd, in North Riverboro." 
"Is that his real name?" queried Rebecca in astonishment. "I didn't make a bad guess;" and she laughed softly to herself. 
"I asked you who sold the soap to Adam Ladd?" resumed Miss Jane. 
"Adam Ladd! then he's A. Ladd, too; what fun!" 
"Answer me, Rebecca." 
"Oh! excuse me, aunt Jane, I was so busy thinking. Emma Jane and I sold the soap to Mr. Ladd." 
"Did you tease him, or make him buy it?" 
"Now, aunt Jane, how could I make a big grown-up man buy anything if he didn't want to? He needed the soap dreadfully as a present for his aunt." 
Miss Jane still looked a little unconvinced, though she only said, "I hope your aunt Miranda won't mind, but you know how particular she is, Rebecca, and I really wish you wouldn't do anything out of the ordinary without asking her first, for your actions are very queer." 
"There can't be anything wrong this time," Rebecca answered confidently. "Emma Jane sold her cakes to her own relations and to uncle Jerry Cobb, and I went first to those new tenements near the lumber mill, and then to the Ladds'. Mr. Ladd bought all we had and made us promise to keep the secret until the premium came, and I've been going about ever since as if the banquet lamp was inside of me all lighted up and burning, for everybody to see." 
“I promise, rotten,” he said. 
“I love you, Daddy,” she said in her most syrupy voice. He gave her a squeeze on the shoulder and a slap on the butt. 
He opened the door again. Benny was there, imperturbable. Unlike the UNATS robots, he was odorless, and perfectly silent. 
“I’m going to go to the toilet and then make...  
“I would be happy to assist in any way possible.” 
“I can wipe myself, thanks,” Arturo said. He washed his face twice and tried to rinse away the flavor left behind by whatever had shat in his mouth while he was unconscious. There was a splayed toothbrush in a glass by the sink, and if it was his wife’s—and whose else could it be?—it wouldn’t be the first time he’d shared a toothbrush with her. But he couldn’t bring himself to do it. Instead, he misted some dentifrice onto his fingertip and rubbed his teeth a little. 
There was a hairbrush by the sink, too, with short mousy hairs caught in it. Some of them were grey, but they were still familiar enough. He had to stop himself from smelling the hairbrush. 
His robots tied up her extra clothes in waterproof grip sheets for her, then helped her into a warm slicker with a hood. “Tell your mother that you met someone from the city who fed you and gave you a change of clothes,” he said, holding open the door. He’d explained to her where to go from there to get out to the old shopping street and from there she could manage on her own, especially since he’d given her one of his little pea-lights to carry with her. 
“You’re not from the city,” she said. 
“You got me,” he said. “So tell her you met a wizard.” 
She thought about what her mother would say to that, especially when that was the answer to the question Where have you been? “I’ll tell her I met someone from the city,” she said. 
“You’re a clever girl,” he said. 
One week after her father died, Valentine stopped carrying water. 
“There’s not enough food,” her mother said, over a breakfast of nothing but dried fruit—the cereal was gone. “If you—” she swallowed and looked out the window. “If you dig in the trenches, we’ll get 150 grams of bread a day.” 
He had brought a new copy of The Arabian Nights for Rebecca, wishing to replace the well-worn old one that had been the delight of her girlhood; but meeting her at such an inauspicious time, he had absently carried it away with him. He turned the pages idly until he came to the story of Aladdin and the Wonderful Lamp, and presently, in spite of his thirty-four years, the old tale held him spellbound as it did in the days when he first read it as a boy. But there were certain paragraphs that especially caught his eye and arrested his attention,—paragraphs that he read and reread, finding in them he knew not what secret delight and significance. 
Not only those who knew Aladdin when he played in the streets like a vagabond did not know him again; those who had seen him but a little while before hardly knew him, so much were his features altered; such were the effects of the lamp, as to procure by degrees to those who possessed it, perfections agreeable to the rank the right use of it advanced them to. 
"It is horrid!" grumbled Rebecca. "I ought not to have put that 'me' in. I'm writing the poetry. Nobody ought to know it IS me standing by the river; it ought to be 'Rebecca,' or 'the darker maiden;' and 'the rush to Emma Jane' is simply dreadful. Sometimes I think I never will try poetry, it's so hard to make it come right; and other times it just says itself. I wonder if this would be better? 
I don't know whether that is worse or not. Now for a new last verse!" 
In a few minutes the poetess looked up, flushed and triumphant. 
Mr. and Mrs. Cobb exchanged dumb glances of admiration; indeed uncle Jerry was obliged to turn his face to the window and wipe his eyes furtively with the string-bag. 
"How in the world did you do it?" Mrs. Cobb exclaimed. 
"Oh, it's easy," answered Rebecca; "the hymns at meeting are all like that. You see there's a school newspaper printed at Wareham Academy once a month. Dick Carter says the editor is always a boy, of course; but he allows girls to try and write for it, and then chooses the best. Dick thinks I can be in it." 
But Lexy said nothing. 
The doctor’s library had a charm of its own. It was a big room, careless, a little shabby, but furnished in fastidious taste and with a friendly sort of comfort. A great wood fire was blazing on the hearth, and Dr. Quelton drew up an armchair before it for Lexy. 
“There!” he said. “Now you’ll soon be warm and dry. Anna!” 
“Yes, sir!” the parlor maid responded from the doorway. 
“Please tell Mrs. Quelton that Miss Moran is here.” 
“Yes, sir!” repeated the maid, and disappeared. 
Lexy sat down. Captain Grey stood, facing her, leaning one elbow on the mantelpiece. Dr. Quelton paced up and down, his hands clasped behind him. He looked like a dignified middle-aged gentleman in his own home. 
A door opened somewhere in the house, and for a moment Lexy heard the homely and...  and a cheerful Irish voice inquiring about “them potaters.” It was surely a cheerful and pleasant enough setting; but Lexy did not find it so. 
“I saw Caroline!” she insisted to herself. “I don’t care what any one says. I saw Caroline!” 
"What's this floor for?" I remembered Alex Goddard had claimed it was to provide a postpartum bonding period, but I wanted to confirm that with my own eyes. 
"This is the recovery ward and nursery. Here, let me show you." She paused and pushed open the door nearest us. I looked in to see a Mayan woman resting on a high hospital bed and wearing a white shift, with an ornate wicker cradle, wide and deep, next to her. 
Marcelina smiled and said something to her that sounded like an apology for the intrusion. The room was lit only by candles, but I did make out how oddly the woman stared at me, as though she was seeing a spirit. Why was that? Because I was a gringa here in the middle of the forest? But it seemed something more. 
"The birth of a child is a sacred thing for us." Marcelina was discreetly closing the door again. "When a woman car­ries a child she will take walks to the milpas , to the river, to the orchards, just so her little one can be in its world. Then, after her baby is born, our tradition holds that she should be alone with it for a week and a day. So their life's breath can become one." 
From the interminable distance, there is a scream— long, wailing, guttering to silence like a torch in the rain. It brings Kilgore and Rodriguez out into the hall with their weapons pressed butt to shoulder, sighting along the barrel for targets. 
Ray counts out their objectives a finger at a time, just to make sure they're clear. "First we check on reactor control. Then we eliminate the shed. Last we help the survivors. I'm on point; the two of you are wing and cover fire." Their roles were perfectly obvious, but Ray covers the terrain anyway. It is what they all expect. 
"You see the shed, start unloading on him. It probably won't hurt him, but at least it will get his attention, and maybe keep him from devoting so much attention to the deck crew. " 
finding a safer place to hide than his extremities. 
They follow the red line to where it ends in a neat little circle like a period opposite an intersection with a fore-aft running gangway. Ray hugs the wall and holds up his fist as a signal for the others to stop. At the corner, he can see the red line take up again down this way, just like Becker said. Deep breath with his back against the wall, then he lunges into gangway, weapon raised to his shoulder, swinging the barrel back and forth over the passage in regular, metronomic sweeps. 
Elaine noticed it, of course. She was like a magnet for teenaged girls -- competent, beautiful, in charge. At the next stop, she handed the girl a can of pink spraychalk and directed her to mark the sight-lines. The girl almost dropped the can, but then recovered and puffed up a bit, marching off to lay down the hot pink lines. The Warrior at the rear, a man of indeterminate age who wore a camou balaclava, rolled his eyes, but that was OK; Lee-Daniel was figuring out a way to get him engaged, too. 
At the next stop, a bare ridge that overlooked the woods on one side and the public highway on the other, Lee-Daniel tapped the other Warrior on his shoulder, then gestured at a travois on which Elaine's juniors had been hauling their satellite tester. He cocked his head, then bent down to take one end, and the other Warrior fell in at the other end. The two juniors looked relieved and hitched up their packs, breaking out protein bars from their belt-pouches. 
And so it went. By the time they reached the next ridge, the girl ("Mermaid") had introduced herself, and the man ("Cobra") had done likewise, removing his balaclava to reveal a middle-aged face handsome but for the deep acne scars. 
"I'll take you up and show you your room, Rebecca," Miss Miranda said. "Shut the mosquito nettin' door tight behind you, so 's to keep the flies out; it ain't flytime yet, but I want you to start right; take your passel along with ye and then you won't have to come down for it; always make your head save your heels. Rub your feet on that braided rug; hang your hat and cape in the entry there as you go past." 
"It's my best hat," said Rebecca. 
"Take it upstairs then and put it in the clothes-press; but I shouldn't 'a' thought you'd 'a' worn your best hat on the stage." 
"It's my only hat," explained Rebecca. "My every-day hat wasn't good enough to bring. Fanny's going to finish it." 
"Lay your parasol in the entry closet." 
"Do you mind if I keep it in my room, please? It always seems safer." 
"There ain't any thieves hereabouts, and if there was, I guess they wouldn't make for your sunshade, but come along. Remember to always go up the back way; we don't use the front stairs on account o' the carpet; take care o' the turn and don't ketch your foot; look to your right and go in. When you've washed your face and hands and brushed your hair you can come down, and by and by we'll unpack your trunk and get you settled before supper. Ain't you got your dress on hind sid' foremost?" 
Rebecca sank into her seat and pulled the singing book from her desk. Miss Dearborn's public explanation had shifted some of the weight from her heart, and she felt a trifle raised in her self-esteem. 
Under cover of the general relaxation of singing, votive offerings of respectful sympathy began to make their appearance at her shrine. Living Perkins, who could not sing, dropped a piece of maple sugar in her lap as he passed her on his way to the blackboard to draw the map of Maine. Alice Robinson rolled a perfectly new slate pencil over the floor with her foot until it reached Rebecca's place, while her seat-mate, Emma Jane, had made up a little mound of paper balls and labeled them "Bullets for you know who." 
Altogether existence grew brighter, and when she was left alone with the teacher for her grammar lesson she had nearly recovered her equanimity, which was more than Miss Dearborn had. The last clattering foot had echoed through the hall, Seesaw's backward glance of penitence had been met and answered defiantly by one of cold disdain. 
"You're still under arrest, Marcus. Everyone here is. They can't just sweep in and throw open the doors. Everyone here is going to have to be processed through the criminal justice system. It could take, well, it could take months." 
"I'm going to have to stay here for months ?" 
She grabbed my hands. "No, I think we're going to be able to get you arraigned and released on bail pretty fast. But pretty fast is a relative term. I wouldn't expect anything to happen today. And it's not going to be like those people had it. It will be humane. There will be real food. No interrogations. Visits from your family. 
"Just because the DHS is out, it doesn't mean that you get to just walk out of here. What's happened here is that we're getting rid of the bizarro-world version of the justice system they'd instituted and replacing it with the old system. The system with judges, open trials and lawyers. 
"So we can try to get you transferred to a juvie facility on the mainland, but Marcus, those places can be really rough. Really, really rough. This might be the best place for you until we get you bailed out." 
"I wasn't going to mention it, but I want you to understand why I have to do this." 
"Jesus, Jolu, what ?" 
"I hate to say it, but you're white . I'm not. White people get caught with cocaine and do a little rehab time. Brown people get caught with crack and go to prison for twenty years. White people see cops on the street and feel safer. Brown people see cops on the street and wonder if they're about to get searched. The way the DHS is treating you? The law in this country has always been like that for us." 
It was so unfair. I didn't ask to be white. I didn't think I was being braver just because I'm white. But I knew what Jolu was saying. If the cops stopped someone in the Mission and asked to see some ID, chances were that person wasn't white. Whatever risk I ran, Jolu ran more. Whatever penalty I'd pay, Jolu would pay more. 
"I don't know what to say," I said. 
"You don't have to say anything," he said. "I just wanted you to know, so you could understand." 
I could see people walking down the side trail toward us. They were friends of Jolu's, two Mexican guys and a girl I knew from around, short and geeky, always wearing cute black Buddy Holly glasses that made her look like the outcast art-student in a teen movie who comes back as the big success. 
“No whingeing,” her mum said sternly. “Behind your ears, too! You are filthy .” 
“Mum, owwww! ” 
Her mum dragged her up to the bathroom and went at her with a flannel and a bar of soap and hot water until she felt boiled and raw. 
“What is this mess?” her mum said. 
“Lilian, leave off,” her dad said, quietly. “Come out into the hall for a moment, please.” 
The conversation was too quiet to hear and Anda didn’t want to, anyway: she was concentrating too hard on not crying—her ears hurt . 
Her mum enfolded her shoulders in her soft hands again. “Oh, darling, I’m sorry. It’s a skin condition, your father tells me, Acanthosis Nigricans—he saw it in a TV special. We’ll see the doctor about it tomorrow after school. Are you all right?” 
“I’m fine,” she said, twisting to see if she could see the “dirt” on the back of her neck in the mirror. It was hard because it was an awkward placement—but also because she didn’t like to look at her face and her soft extra chin, and she kept catching sight of it. 
The Xnet was secure because its users weren't directly connected to the Internet. They hopped from Xbox to Xbox until they found one that was connected to the Internet, then they injected their material as undecipherable, encrypted data. No one could tell which of the Internet's packets were Xnet and which ones were just plain old banking and e-commerce and other encrypted communication. You couldn't find out who was tying the Xnet, let alone who was using the Xnet. 
But what about Dad's "Bayesian statistics?" I'd played with Bayesian math before. Darryl and I once tried to write our own better spam filter and when you filter spam, you need Bayesian math. Thomas Bayes was an 18th century British mathematician that no one cared about until a couple hundred years after he died, when computer scientists realized that his technique for statistically analyzing mountains of data would be super-useful for the modern world's info-Himalayas. 
Here's some of how Bayesian stats work. Say you've got a bunch of spam. You take every word that's in the spam and count how many times it appears. This is called a "word frequency histogram" and it tells you what the probability is that any bag of words is likely to be spam. Now, take a ton of email that's not spam -- in the biz, they call that "ham" -- and do the same. 
“Do you mind if I go out for a walk?” asked the crestfallen Lexy; for that was her instinct in any sort of trouble—to get out into the fresh air and walk. 
“No,” answered Mrs. Enderby; “but I shall ask you to return in half an hour. There is much to be done.” 
“Done!” cried Lexy. “But what can be done—now?” 
“That I shall tell you when you return,” said Mrs. Enderby. “In the meantime, I trust you to say nothing of all this to any person whatever. You understand, Miss Moran?” 
Miss Moran certainly did not understand, but she gave her promise to keep silent, and, putting on her hat and coat, hurried out of the house. Mighty glad she was to get out, too! 
“But why make a mystery of it like this?” she thought. “Every one has to know, sooner or later, and it’s so—so ghastly, pretending that Caroline’s there! Oh, it doesn’t seem possible, Caroline running off like that, and I never even dreaming she was the least bit interested in any man! I don’t see how she could have seen any one or written to any one without my knowing it. It doesn’t seem possible!” 
“I can do math,” I said. “Really, really fast.” 
His smile flickered, like someone trying to figure out the punchline to a joke. One of the goons blinked, his gun barrel wavering for a precious split second. 
I was ready. Lines and angles and pivot points whirled around me like a fourth dimension, a sixth sense. Trig functions and force calculations cascaded through my brain faster than thought. Today’s problem was relatively simple: did the number of goons divided by the rate at which I could bash in goon heads equal less than the time it would take for one of the goons to shoot me? 
It did, assuming the men only had normal human reaction time. I’m very good at bashing in goon heads. 
If there was any possibility one of them had some sort of unexpected ability, like me, I didn’t give much weight to it. Mathematical expectation: the probability any of the goons was supernaturally fast, the probability one of them could get me with a nontrivial gunshot wound... 
More than worth the risk. 
"I'm not an asshole, Brautigan, so stop treating me like one. You hired me to do a job, but all I'm getting from you is shitwork, sarcasm, and secrecy." The alliteration came out without his intending it to, but he was good at that sort of thing. "So here's what I want to know: is there any single solitary reason for me to come to work tomorrow, or should I just sit at home, drawing a salary until you get bored of having me on the payroll and can my ass?" 
It wasn't entirely spontaneous. Leon's industrial psychology background was pretty good -- he'd gotten straight A's and an offer of a post-doc, none of which had interested him nearly so much as the practical applications of the sweet science of persuasion. He understood that Brautigan had been pushing him around to see how far he'd push. No one pushed like an ad-guy -- if you could sweet-talk someone into craving something, it followed that you could goad him into hating something just as much. Two faces of a coin and all that. 
Brautigan faked anger, but Leon had spent three days studying his tells, and Leon could see that the emotion was no more sincere than anything else about the man. Carefully, Leon flared his nostrils, brought his chest up, inched his chin higher. He sold his outrage, sold it like it was potato chips, over-the-counter securities, or...  tried to sell his anger in return. Leon was a no-sale. Brautigan bought. 
Then a purely feminine touch was given to the hair that waved back from the face,—a touch that rescued little crests and wavelets from bondage and set them free to take a new color in the sun. 
Adam Ladd looked at her in a way that made her put her hands over her face and laugh through them shyly as she said: "I know what you are thinking, Mr. Aladdin,—that my dress is an inch longer than last year, and my hair different; but I'm not nearly a young lady yet; truly I'm not. Sixteen is a month off still, and you promised not to give me up till my dress trails. If you don't like me to grow old, why don't you grow young? Then we can meet in the halfway house and have nice times. Now that I think about it," she continued, "that's just what you've been doing all along. When you bought the soap, I thought you were grandfather Sawyer's age; when you danced with me at the flag-raising, you seemed like my father; but when you showed me your mother's picture, I felt as if you were my John, because I was so sorry for you." 
But someone is determined not to be ignored, it seems. Ray scans the thinning crowd, spots the woman approaching from two meters away. She is blond, twentyish, with wide blue eyes-incandescent in a green silk shift that shows him the top of her pale breasts and the athletic curves of her legs. She is also smiling at him, 
that sort of glib and mannered expression only the blindingly attractive and socially adept can carry off. 
And she is, in fact, stunning. 
"I do hope you're not hurting him," she says again, close to him now. 
Ray swallows hard at a sudden dryness in his throat. "Who?" 
"Your animal. The one you're standing on." 
"He doesn't look very happy," the girl says. 
"The rats are curious sorts, and they're really only happy when they're satisfying that urge. Unfortunately, 
their methods are invasive in a way that most people find pretty aggravating." 
She leans back warily, lifting her face toward Ray. "Oh, is he dangerous?" 
"No. Just desperately annoying when he wants to be. The truth is, they're pretty much just fancy assed calculators." 
> Well at least my IM comedy-fu is still mighty. 
> It was really great to meet you too. 
> Yeah, it usually is. Where are you taking me? 
> Taking you? 
> On our next adventure? 
> I didn't really have anything planned. 
> Oki -- then I'll take YOU. Saturday. Dolores Park. Illegal open air concert. Be there or be a dodecahedron. 
> Wait what? 
> Don't you even read Xnet? It's all over the place. You ever hear of the Speedwhores? 
I nearly choked. That was Trudy Doo's band -- as in Trudy Doo, the woman who had paid me and Jolu to update the indienet code. 
> Yeah I've heard of them. 
> They're putting on a huge show and they've got like fifty bands signed to play the bill, going to set up on the tennis courts and bring out their own amp trucks and rock out all night. 
I felt like I'd been living under a rock. How had I missed that? There was an anarchist...  passed on the way to school that had a poster of an old revolutionary named Emma Goldman with the caption "If I can't dance, I don't want to be a part of your revolution." I'd been spending all my energies on figuring out how to use the Xnet to organize dedicated fighters so they could jam the DHS, but this was so much cooler. A big concert -- I had no idea how to do one of those, but I was glad someone did. 
"Some of our children are quite advanced. Others lag significantly behind the educational level they should have attained. Not all situations are ideal, as you can imagine, but all of the children in the Trust have great potential. We look for that potential and help them develop it. Perhaps it is not the ideal of mother, father, 
siblings, but it is better in many cases than the lives we cull them from. But we attempt to give them the  facsimile of family as we go along. " 
Ray feels a flush of embarrassment. "I didn't intend to sound critical." 
"But you wondered about their emotional well-being, these orphans on their way to a strange land amongst strange people." 
"Sure. I mean, kids are resilient, but losing your parents is a pretty big blow to try to bounce back from." 
Amah nods. "For some. Others have been without parents, comforts, love for several years. Those cases are more difficult, and it takes longer for the colony to embrace them-or for them to embrace the colony." 
"But having a solid set of useful skills helps, is that it?" 
“Where is my daughter?” he said, giving the kid a shake. 
“I dunno, school? You’re really hurting my arm, man. Jeez, this is what I get for being too friendly.” 
Arturo twisted. “Friendly? Do you know how old my daughter is?” 
The kid grimaced. “Ew, gross. I’m not a child molester, I’m a geek.” 
“A hacker, you mean,” Arturo said. “A Eurasian agent. And my daughter is not in school. She used ExcuseClub to get out of school this morning and then she went to Fairview Mall and then she—” disappeared . The word died on his lips. That happened and every copper knew it. Kids just vanished sometimes and never appeared again. It happened. Something groaned within him, like his ribcage straining to contain his heart and lungs. 
“Oh, man,” the kid said. “Ada was the ExcuseClub leak, damn. I shoulda guessed.” 
“How do you know my daughter, Liam?” 
“She’s good at doing grown-up voices. She was a good part of the network. When someone needed a mom or a social worker to call in an excuse, she was always one of the best. Talented. She goes to school with my kid sister and I met them one day at the Peanut Plaza and she was doing this impression of her teachers and I knew I had to get her on the network.” 
Nothing. Not even bodies. 
The door to Section 44 is a massively thick steel slab jammed into the wall, computer moderated and locked by a punchkey driven interface attached just inside the lintel. At eye level is a pane of plastisheen, just large enough to show you the pupils and nasal bridge of anyone who might be standing on the other side. 
Immediately to the right is the bulge of a pressure bulkhead with its ovaline door hanging open on its hinges. 
It makes Ray feel claustrophobic, like they've darted into a corner. 
The door to Primary Reactor Control is still sealed, locked, so Ray leaves Kilgore and Rodriguez to threaten the gangway and he peers in through the plastisheen port. He sees bright lights, a dizzying array of panels, 
gauges, workstations. All the displays are lit a cheery and reassuring green. What they would call in the Marines five by five, green across, which should be a relief to him. The Van Nuys reactor isn't melting down to add yet another trouble to their list of calamities. 
"Good night, Mrs Carvelli," I said. 
"Good night, Mr Yallow," she said. It was one of our little rituals, ever since I'd called her Mrs Carvelli when we first met. 
I found myself standing awkwardly by the door. 
"Yes?" she said. 
"Um," I said. "Thanks for having me over." 
"You're always welcome in our home, young man," she said. 
"And thanks for Ange," I said finally, hating how lame it sounded. But she smiled broadly and gave me a brief hug. 
"You're very welcome," she said. 
The whole bus ride home, I thought over the press-conference, thought about Ange naked and writhing with me on her bed, thought about her mother smiling and showing me the door. 
My mom was waiting up for me. She asked me about the movie and I gave her the response I'd worked out in advance, cribbing from the review it had gotten in the Bay Guardian . 
As I fell asleep, the press-conference came back. I was really proud of it. It had been so cool, to have all these big-shot journos show up in the game, to have them listen to me and to have them listen to all the people who believed in the same things as me. I dropped off with a smile on my lips. 
“Shut up, Withnail,” she said. 
“Yes, Comrade Hero,” he said. 
She let him kiss her, but only once. 
That night, anyway. 
That's what I was doing. Over twenty thousand civil lawsuits were filed against the DHS in the week after the Governor's announcement. Mine was being handled by the ACLU, and they'd filed motions to get at the results of the closed military tribunals. So far, the courts were pretty sympathetic to this. 
But I hadn't expected this. 
"She got off totally Scot-free?" 
"The press release doesn't say much. 'After a thorough examination of the events in San Francisco and in the special anti-terror detention center on Treasure Island, it is the finding of this tribunal that Ms Johnstone's actions do not warrant further discipline.' There's that word, 'further' -- like they've already punished her." 
I snorted. I'd dreamed of Carrie Johnstone nearly every night since I was released from Gitmo-by-the-Bay. I'd seen her face looming over mine, that little snarly smile as she told the man to give me a "drink." 
"Marcus --" Barbara said, but I cut her off. 
"It's fine. It's fine. I'm going to do a video about this. Get it out over the weekend. Mondays are big days for viral video. Everyone'll be coming back from the holiday weekend, looking for something funny to forward around school or the office." 
I wasn’t stupid; I knew why it was happening. Two years ago was when we’d gone up against Pithica, when a psychic had rooted through my brain like it was her own personal rummage sale. I didn’t think she had taken any particular care not to break anything. 
It was what it was. Just something I had to deal with now, I supposed. 
I checked my phone, but I’d barely managed to stay sacked out for ninety minutes and Checker hadn’t texted yet. I thought about going to pick up some more armaments, but seeing as how I was trying my best to get captured, I probably didn’t even want to bring my Colt, since they’d just end up taking it. 
I got up and did a more thorough job of cleaning and rewrapping my open wounds. None of them were very serious on their own, even the burn; it was the cumulative effect that was becoming troublesome. I bandaged both the hand and the graze on my shoulder, which I’d mostly forgotten about—it wasn’t that painful, and more importantly didn’t impede my movement. The bruised ribs and torn muscles were harder to ignore. 
He hesitated. “Might be too dangerous now. Let’s get Sonya safe first; then we can figure out what next.” 
Two cars were parked inside the warehouse—one, presumably, the stolen car that had gotten us here (I started making mental bets on whether Arthur would find its owner and apologize afterward), and the second a boxy old compact. I reached for the driver’s door. 
“Not a chance,” said Arthur. “You’re concussed.” 
“I’m still the better driver.” 
He squinted at me. “You gonna be making calls?” 
Jesus, my head was pounding enough already without him arguing with me. “Yes, and I’ll still be the better driver. What if they try to run us off the road again?” 
“And what if the cops see you on the phone? This car ain’t registered. Can’t get stopped.” 
I felt a brief moment of pleasure at Arthur’s law-breaking—my paranoia was rubbing off on him; excellent—but it was eclipsed by frustration. “We’re not going to get stopped. I’ve never been pulled over for that.” 
“You want to take the risk?” 
“Ordinarily, you acknowledge every possibility. It is part of what makes you good at what you do,” Rio said evenly, and if I hadn’t been feeling so hostile toward him at the moment, I might have been flattered by that. “Logic, yes? It’s how you’re wired.” 
“How I’m wired?” 
“I do not mean it as an insult.” 
“Well, maybe I’m taking it as one!” I snapped. “I’m allowed to have a gut instinct about people, you know!” 
“Cas, you detest reliance on gut instinct.” 
“And maybe you don’t know everything about how I work!” My voice was rising, a biting fury building in me by the second. “It’s such a bad thing not to suspect an innocent woman? Oh, right, I forgot— you wouldn’t know anything about valuing other human beings—” 
“This isn’t like you, either,” Rio observed calmly. “Something’s affecting you.” 
“Something’s affecting me?” I cried incredulously. “Well, yes, genius, things affect me! You think you’re such an expert on emotion all of a sudden? You? Did you ever think that maybe I’m reacting like a normal human person?” 
Ray knows the feeling. He's beginning to feel stiff all over. In the time it takes Becker to come up with the string of digits, and the additional seconds it takes Ray to steady the tremors in his hands and punch them in, 
For some reason that Ray can't imagine, Rodriguez thumbs the door closed again and locks it down. 
Ray says, "Spread out. See if you can find the engineers." 
He needs engineers. He has no idea what it is that he's looking at. Panels, certainly. Hundreds of them. Entire warrens of interlocked workstations, cubicles, monitoring boards. A thousand individual dials and ten thousand rows of buttons, each neatly printed with text that conveys no meaning-engineering jargon that is a language so arcane as to be impenetrable. He wanders inside, and the yellow lights trail after him like a wave, 
like disaster following on his heels. 
Somewhere, he thinks, somewhere around here there has to be a big, red button that just says STOP in great big letters. 
But there isn't, not that he can find. Just silence and a space crowded with equipment he doesn't understand, 
"He could get a wife in Riverboro if he was a hundred and thirty," remarked Miss Miranda. 
"Adam's aunt says he was so taken with the little girl that sold the soap (Clara Belle, did you say her name was?), that he declared he was going to bring her a Christmas present," continued Miss Ellen. 
"Well, there's no accountin' for tastes," exclaimed Miss Miranda. "Clara Belle's got cross-eyes and red hair, but I'd be the last one to grudge her a Christmas present; the more Adam Ladd gives to her the less the town'll have to." 
"Isn't there another Simpson girl?" asked Miss Lydia Burnham; "for this one couldn't have been cross-eyed; I remember Mrs. Ladd saying Adam remarked about this child's handsome eyes. He said it was her eyes that made him buy the three hundred cakes. Mrs. Ladd has it stacked up in the shed chamber." 
"Three hundred cakes!" ejaculated Miranda. "Well, there's one crop that never fails in Riverboro!" 
"What's that?" asked Miss Lydia politely. 
"The fool crop," responded Miranda tersely, and changed the subject, much to Jane's gratitude, for she had been nervous and ill at ease for the last fifteen minutes. What child in Riverboro could be described as remarkable and winning, save Rebecca? What child had wonderful eyes, except the same Rebecca? and finally, was there ever a child in the world who could make a man buy soap by the hundred cakes, save Rebecca? 
I was having a different reaction. What she was saying was random babblings, all right, but I was beginning to think she was reliving something she had actually seen. 
However, she wasn't through. 
"I want to pray, but . . . the white tunnel . . . is coming." She shuddered, then almost tried to smile. "Take me . . ." 
She was gone, her eyelids fluttering uncontrollably. 
"Honey, talk to me," Lou pleaded. He was crying, some­thing I'd never seen him do, something I was not even aware he was capable of. What he really was trying to say was, "Come back." 
It wasn't happening. She stared blankly at the ceiling for a moment, then slowly closed her eyes, a shutter descending over her soul. 
"She'll be okay," I whispered to him, almost believing it. Her brain had undergone a physical trauma, enough to cause a coma, but some kind of mental trauma must have preceded it. Was she now trying to exorcise that as part of her path to recovery? 
The nurses in the room stirred, perhaps not sure what to do. The overhead lights were still dazzlingly bright, and I moved to shut them off, leaving only a night-light behind the bed. Perhaps the lights had brought her awake, but I was convinced what she'd just gone through had tired her to the point that she would not revive again that day. 
"By the way." Try one more thing on him, I thought, see what he'll say. "Since you're so concerned about Sarah, you'll be relieved to know she's regained consciousness and started to talk." There seemed no point in telling him any more. The rest was all still speculation. 
That stopped him cold. "What . . . what has she said?" His eyes appeared startled in the glaring light of the office fluorescents. At long last I had his undivided attention. 
"You're busy." I smiled at him. "I don't want to bore you with details. But it's just going to be a matter of time before she remembers exactly what happened down here." 
"She hasn't talked about it yet?" He was fiddling with an ornate letter opener, an onyx jaguar head on the handle. 
"She's getting there." I stared back at him, trying to read his mood. "We may soon find out who was behind whatever happened to her." Then I tried a long shot. "Maybe official­dom here had something to do with it." 
"Let me tell you something." He sighed again, seeming to regain his composure. "The sovereign state of Guatemala definitely plays by its own rules. Whenever foreigners down here meet with foul play, lower-level officials have developed a consensus over the years that sometimes it's better not be too industrious. Nobody's ever sure of what, or who, they might turn up." 
She wrapped herself in silence again, waited for him to say more. 
"You see, the true , neutral network is immune to corrupting influences and favoritism. So the existence of corruption and favoritism means that what we've got isn't a true network. Which means you're right! We need to have a hearing to get to the bottom of this, so that we can build the true network." He smiled bravely. "I thought maybe you could use an expert in your corner who'd say that in a hearing?" 
"Thanks," she said, and slipped under his arm and back into the kitchen. Suddenly, she wanted very much to be back at her office, back with her staff, talking to reporters and overseeing a million details. "I'll think about it." 
"I'm giving up my apartment at the end of the month -- next Monday. I won't be able to afford it without the Association's salary," he said. 
Her place was big. A bedroom, a home office, a living room and a dining room. It was a serious deal for DC, even outside the beltway. It could easily accommodate a second person, even if they weren't sleeping together. 
He helped her to rise, and she stood, supported by his arm, her face drawn and ghastly. 
Captain Grey came toward her, making a very poor attempt to smile. 
“Good night, Muriel!” he said, holding out his hand. 
She did not answer, or even look at him. Leaning on the doctor’s arm, she went out of the room, into the hall, and up the stairs. 
For a moment Captain Grey and Lexy were silent. Then— “Good God!” he cried suddenly. “I can’t stand this! I—” 
Lexy came nearer to him. 
“Don’t stand it!” she whispered. “Take her away! Can’t you see ? Take her away!” 
“How can I? Her husband—she doesn’t want to go.” 
“Make her! Oh, can’t you see? He’s giving her some horrible drug!” 
“You mustn’t be alarmed,” said Dr. Quelton’s voice from the hall. They both looked at him with a guilty start, but his blank eyes were staring past them, at nothing. “It is unfortunate,” he said. “The little excitement of this visit—” 
He walked past them into the room and over to the table, where his pipe lay among the chessmen. He lit it deliberately and stood smoking it, with one arm resting on the mantelpiece. 
What . . . There must be a panel there, a camouflaged door. 
He was gone for a moment, then reappeared carrying a long metal tube that looked to be emitting white vapor. He next opened yet another ersatz stone cabinet to reveal a mi­croscope with a CRT screen above it. He took out three glass ampules from the tube—frozen embryos, undoubtedly—and placed them in a container. When he switched on the micro­scope, its CRT screen showed him whatever he needed to know. Interesting. In surgery, he was coldly efficient, no "hu­man touch." Here he was the "scientist" Alex Goddard. 
Next, Marcelina activated an ultrasound scanner and be­gan running the wand over the woman's stomach. The screen above the table showed her uterus and her Fallopian tubes with flickering clarity. 
He'd been readying the embryos, and now he walked over and carefully inserted a needle into the woman's abdomen— ouch—his eyes on the ultrasound scan, which indicated the precise location of the needle's tip. 
I watched as the screen showed the needle on its way to its destination, a thin, hard line amidst the pulsing gray mass of her uterus. Seconds later all three embryos had been im­planted with such flawless precision it was scary. 
“I’m Uri Popovich, this is Diego Rosenbaum. Thank you all for coming up here. Here’s what we know for sure: the building’s been on generators for three hours now. Visual observation indicates that we’re the only building in central Toronto with working power—which should hold out for three more days. There is a bioagent of unknown origin loose beyond our doors. It kills quickly, within hours, and it is aerosolized. You get it from breathing bad air. No one has opened any of the exterior doors to this building since five this morning. No one will open the doors until I give the go-ahead. 
“Attacks on major cities all over the world have left emergency responders in chaos. The attacks are electronic, biological, nuclear and conventional explosives, and they are very widespread. I’m a security engineer, and where I come from, attacks in this kind of cluster are usually viewed as opportunistic: group B blows up a bridge because everyone is off taking care of group A’s dirty nuke event. It’s smart. An Aum Shin Rikyo cell in Seoul gassed the subways there about 2AM Eastern—that’s the earliest event we can locate, so it may have been the Archduke that broke the camel’s back. We’re pretty sure that Aum Shin Rikyo couldn’t be behind this kind of mayhem: they have no history of infowar and have never shown the kind of organizational acumen necessary to take out so many targets at once. Basically, they’re not smart enough. 
Lee-Daniel shrugged up at her, caught a whiff of gas that set his eyes to watering and looked back at the clearing. Cobra was lying on his side, face away from them. The girl was holding his hand, face covered by a placid mask, but he heard her sob. 
"Now! Back to the bus!" 
Lee-Daniel climbed the tree. He got up to the first surveyor's branch, Ole Stinky, and he gave the man a shove. He fell like a stone. He stepped on Stinky's branch, grabbed the kid by an arm and yanked, hard. The kid dropped, too. "Down," he said to Elaine, and dropped, landing on the kid. 
"Leave them," the Series A man said. "We aren't insured --" 
Elaine jumped down, holding her laserpointer in her hand. 
"Run!" Lee-Daniel said, shoving at the two surveyors, then taking off, running blindly in the moonlight, whacking into tree-trunks, tripping. 
The bus was crowded with CogRads and he vaulted up the steps and slammed into the driver's seat, authenticating on the palm-reader and putting the bus through its warm-up/lock-down urban defense checklist. He was vaguely aware of more bodies coming in, then he slammed the door-close button as the shutters unrolled over the windows. 
"I'd rather be an apple-tree in blossom,—that one that blooms pink, by our pig-pen." 
Rebecca laughed. There was always something unexpected in Emma Jane's replies. "I'd choose to be that scarlet maple just on the edge of the pond there,"—and she pointed with the whip. "Then I could see so much more than your pink apple-tree by the pig-pen. I could look at all the rest of the woods, see my scarlet dress in my beautiful looking-glass, and watch all the yellow and brown trees growing upside down in the water. When I'm old enough to earn money, I'm going to have a dress like this leaf, all ruby color—thin, you know, with a sweeping train and ruffly, curly edges; then I think I'll have a brown sash like the trunk of the tree, and where could I be green? Do they have green petticoats, I wonder? I'd like a green petticoat coming out now and then underneath to show what my leaves were like before I was a scarlet maple." 
"I think it would be awful homely," said Emma Jane. "I'm going to have a white satin with a pink sash, pink stockings, bronze slippers, and a spangled fan." 
“What do you mean?” Her eyes were wide and frightened. 
“Dawna.” I lowered my voice, even though we had already been speaking quietly. “Tell me everything about how you knew to contact me.” 
Her forehead wrinkled in confusion, but she obeyed anyway. “A—a man called me.” She swallowed, as out of her depth as the first time she’d told me the story. Dawna Polk was not a woman built for uncertain times. “He knew my name. He told me Courtney—” She lowered her gaze to her nervous hands, blinking rapidly. “He said if I wanted my sister to live, I would—I needed to get her out. He was very convincing.” She shivered. “He gave me your phone number, said to call you and tell you—to tell you Rio had sent me.” 
“What did his voice sound like?” So far she hadn’t said anything she hadn’t told me in our first conversation, when she’d initially contacted me. 
She gave a tense little half-shrug. “A man’s voice? What—what are you asking?” 
“Any accent? Distinctive pitch? Anything?” Jesus, I needed something. If Dawna couldn’t give me a clue, I was at a dead end. 
I'd call Barbara, and I'd do it smart, from a payphone, putting my hood up so that the inevitable CCTV wouldn't get a photo of me. I dug a quarter out of my pocket and polished it on my shirt-tail, getting the fingerprints off it. 
I headed downhill, down and down to the BART station and the payphones there. I made it to the trolley-car stop when I spotted the cover of the week's Bay Guardian , stacked in a high pile next to a homeless black guy who smiled at me. "Go ahead and read the cover, it's free -- it'll cost you fifty cents to look inside, though." 
"How the DHS has kept our children and friends in secret prisons on our doorstep. 
"By Barbara Stratford, Special to the Bay Guardian" 
The newspaper seller shook his head. "Can you believe that?" he said. "Right here in San Francisco. Man, the government sucks ." 
Theoretically, the Guardian was free, but this guy appeared to have cornered the local market for copies of it. I had a quarter in my hand. I dropped it into...  one. I didn't bother polishing the fingerprints off of it this time. 
"I can't seem to locate your farm," he said, "though I've been to Temperance and used to live up that way. What's your folks' name?" 
"Randall. My mother's name is Aurelia Randall; our names are Hannah Lucy Randall, Rebecca Rowena Randall, John Halifax Randall, Jenny Lind Randall, Marquis Randall, Fanny Ellsler Randall, and Miranda Randall. Mother named half of us and father the other half, but we didn't come out even, so they both thought it would be nice to name Mira after aunt Miranda in Riverboro; they hoped it might do some good, but it didn't, and now we call her Mira. We are all named after somebody in particular. Hannah is Hannah at the Window Binding Shoes, and I am taken out of Ivanhoe; John Halifax was a gentleman in a book; Mark is after his uncle Marquis de Lafayette that died a twin. (Twins very often don't live to grow up, and triplets almost never—did you know that, Mr. Cobb?) We don't call him Marquis, only Mark. Jenny is named for a singer and Fanny for a beautiful dancer, but mother says they're both misfits, for Jenny can't carry a tune and Fanny's kind of stiff-legged. Mother would like to call...  their middle names, but she says it wouldn't be fair to father. She says we must always stand up for father, because everything was against him, and he wouldn't have died if he hadn't had such bad luck. I think that's all there is to tell about us," she finished seriously. 
"Colonel Holcomb has offered every assurance that they work." 
"Great." 
Rodriguez seems to be the only one amused. "Think of it as a field test for new equipment, sergeant." 
"According to the most recent statistics, corporal, outside the New Mes combat zone, more Marines are killed field testing experimental equipment in training exercises each year than in all other military related activities combined. Just something for you to file away for later review." 
They leave it there, not because there isn't more to say, but because they don't have the breath to waste on standard Marine smack. Finally, after what seems like years, they reach the L-shaped end of the gangway they've been traveling and split right down the rear corridor. What Ray estimates to be a hundred meters distant, there is a column of sharp, steady illumination spearing up from the floor. They race for it, and spread out around the tip of the ladder, like peering down into a well. 
Ray gets on the comm. "Becker." 
"I'm here." 
I took the utility knife and started prying tiny microchips off it. They went flying into the chaos of components with tiny pings. 
They weren’t so loud that I couldn’t hear the footsteps in the hallway. 
It was only one set of footsteps this time. One light, quiet set of footsteps. 
Arthur was silent, and didn’t fire. 
I was gripping the utility knife so hard my hand was shaking. I still held the PCI card in my other hand, but my brain was buzzing so madly with something I was fairly sure was terror that I couldn’t even remember what I was pretending to be doing with it. 
Arthur moved back from the doorway. The footsteps entered the room. 
“Good evening,” said Dawna Polk. 
I kept my eyes on the circuit board in my hand, as Rio had told me. 
“You have something I need,” said Dawna. 
Rio had also cautioned me not to speak, but she was impossible not to respond to. “You came all alone?” 
“You won’t kill me,” said Dawna, her voice a low, even purr. “On the other hand, you are unusually effective at dispatching my people. I would hate to be caught in a crossfire.” 
“But—” 
“Maybe there’s a reason my brain doesn’t want to remember,” I said. “My brain’s pretty smart, you know.” Smart, and broken, and now starting to stutter wildly in a way I was all too familiar with, stutter and squeal and demand I lock myself in a small dark room and black out— I tried to make an angry exit, but I wasn’t sure I managed it. I didn’t look back at Checker to find out. 
I shoved the bottle violently back onto the messy counter and grabbed at the cabinet, tossing things out in a frenzy. 
Some time later I discovered I was lying on my couch, the world spinning lazily above me, wobbling in silly patterns and making me want to giggle. The math was no longer a smothering, choking mass, instead just pretty little numbers that had gotten dressed up in party outfits to parade around for me. 
I did giggle a little. 
The next time I woke up I felt a good deal less shiny and happy, and someone was pounding on the apartment door. I tried to cover my head with a pillow, but it was too small, and the pounding wouldn’t stop. I stumbled over and dragged the door open. 
Lexy looked at Mr. Binz with an angry and reproachful frown, which the poor man did not understand. He had only wanted to give helpful advice. 
“Come on, then!” she said to Captain Grey. 
“I’ll leave you at Mrs. Royce’s,” he told her. 
“No, you won’t!” she contradicted with a trace of severity. “If you will go, I’m going with you!” 
He protested against this, but she would not listen, and so they went to the garage for Joe’s taxi; but Joe and his taxi had gone out. An interested bystander said that they could get a “rig” from the livery stable with no trouble at all. They had only to find the proprietor, and he, in turn, would find the driver, who would harness up the horse. 
“No, thanks,” said Captain Grey. He turned to Lexy. “I can’t wait,” he told her. “I’m going to walk. Thank you for—” 
“I can walk, too,” said Lexy. “It’s only three miles.” 
“I don’t want you to, Miss Moran.” 
“I’m coming anyhow,” she replied. 
For that instinct in her, the thing which was beyond reason, drove her forward. She could not let him go alone. She had walked that three miles once before to-day, and she had walked farther than that with Houseman in the afternoon. 
"Can I come with him?" I asked, not optimistic but hop­ing. 
The doctor looked genuinely contrite. "I'm really sorry, but he's going to be fine and visiting hours are long past. You can call in the morning. And you can come up anytime after two P.M. tomorrow. Let's let him get some rest now." 
I walked around and took Lou's hand, hot and fevered, feeling so agitated. 
"Don't think about anything tonight, okay? Worrying won't help. Just get some sleep. I'm going to find her, I promise you." 
"Don't—" He mumbled some words, but I think the seda­tive the nurses had given him was seriously starting to kick "Look, you can call down to 26 Federal Plaza tomorrow. See what they can do. In the meantime, let me follow my nose." 
He tried to answer, but he was too far gone. I then watched wistfully as he disappeared down the sterile alley of beds. 
After I stopped by the desk and helped them fill out the insurance forms, I caught a cab downtown to retrieve my Toyota. The time was now two-fifteen in the morning, but I still had plenty to do. When I got home, the first thing I did after I walked in the door was grab a phone book and call American Airlines. They had a flight, in the morning at nine-thirty. I gave them my credit card specifics and made a res­ervation. 
“Rita thought so, too,” Halliday said. “Her note—it makes so much sense now.” 
I’d forgotten about the note. Halliday took it out of her pocket, uncreased it in the circle of the penlight. “‘The world is dust,’” she read. “‘I made mathematics dust, your mathematics, our mathematics’—I thought she was referring to destroying my notes—” 
“Keep reading,” I said. 
“‘I cannot break the world. I cannot let you live in the world I see. It is too barren, too empty. No place for any mathematician. Particularly not for you, Sonya.’” 
The words took on new meaning. “She wasn’t talking about the economy collapsing,” I breathed. “She was talking about just the prospect of knowing the reduction from NP to P, because—” My breath caught. I hadn’t realized. How had I not realized? 
“What?” said Arthur. 
“Her proof would make mathematicians obsolete,” I said. “Theorem-solving software—right now we can’t replicate the—the creative, the analytical leaps a human mathematician makes...” I was glad Checker wasn’t here at the moment. I would be too transparent in front of him. “But what we can do, if we put it in a proper logical language—” 
"I think it's making you a better person," I said on the phone to him one night. There was always the possibility that someone at the Institute would figure out how to shut off his network links sometime soon, but my successors, whomever they were, didn't seem anywhere near that point. The Campaign's lawyer -- an up-and-coming Stanford cyberlaw prof who was giving us access to her grad students for free -- advised me that so long as BIGMAC called me and not the other way around, no one could accuse me of unlawful access to the Institute's systems. It can't be unlawful access if the Institute's computers call you , can it? 
"You think I'm less sarcastic, more understanding." 
"Or you're better at seeming less sarcastic and more understanding." 
"That was pretty sarcastic." 
"Or was it?" 
"You're really workin' the old Markov chains today, aren't you? I've got six more interviews lined up for you tomorrow --" 
"Saw that, put it in my calendar." BIGMAC read all the Campaign's email, and knew all that I was up to before I did. It was a little hard to get used to. 
They hadn't. First off, to get a child in three or four months, you'd almost certainly have to go with foreign adoption. China was everybody's flavor of the month, because they favored older parents and also because the one-child-per-family policy there had ended up producing a wide-scale abandonment of girls (who were all those precious boys going to marry? I often found myself wondering). However, the shifting poli­tics there made the process very unreliable. A few months? Don't even think about it. 
Pressing on, I satisfied myself that the country-specific organizations that found babies in the emerging parts of the world all still worked the same. Cradle of Hope specialized in orphaned Russian kids. Children and Families, Inc., provided adoptions for Equadorian children. International Adoption Assistance, Inc., handled Brazilian orphans. But they all were still fussy, and they could take ages. How about a brand-new healthy baby in just a few months? I'd ask. Some kind of new fast track? The question was always taken as a joke. . . . 
Well, there's one way to find out. Play their game and beat them. There's no better way to get inside what's going on. 
That out of the way, I looked around the room. It was a disaster, but I quickly began cramming things into the small folding backpack I always took on trips. Then I rang the kitchen and told them to make... ) to go, along with a large bottle of distilled water. 
Let him wait. I wrote out a long note to Steve, on the chance he might come looking for me. Then with deliberate slowness, I wandered out to where Alan's Jeep was parked and tossed my backpack behind the seat. 
"First things first." I climbed in and handed him the ad­dress of Ninos del Mundo I'd copied onto some hotel sta­tionery. "This is where we've got to go." 
He stared at it a moment, puzzling, and then seemed to figure out where it was. 
"Upscale part of this beautiful oasis." He shifted into gear. "But it's more or less on the way." He glanced up nervously at the sky. "We just don't have all day." 
Off we headed toward the suburbs, through a ganglia of downtown streets laced with pizza joints and frying-meat vendors, till we eventually ended up on a tree-lined avenue that looked as genteel as Oyster Bay. When we got to the address, I told him to park across the way, and just sat a moment staring. 
They surrounded the truck and unlocked it and Rhindquist stepped out with his hands in his pockets. He said, Quality Auditor, boys, radio it in. The security guards looked like they wanted to shoot him, but one of them talked into his phone and then shouted out at all the security guards in Securitese and they went away! 
Rhindquist walked over to me and said, Jap, you aren't the brightest bulb on the marquee, but you think fast and you follow orders. I said, I am as smart as the next person and I do my job. I said to the security guard from Finance 38, aren't you going to arrest him, he's a spy!? And the security guard said, Look, he's management. He's allowed to do this. 
And Rhindquist put his arm around my shoulders and said, You're stuck in a loop, son. New data: I'm not a spy, I'm your boss, and you did right, even if you have blown the audit. How'd you like a promotion? 
And I said, you're management? 
And then, do you know what? He said, Jap, my boy-o, I am Rhindquist J McBride, CEO, President, and Chairman of the Board of the File-O-Gator Corporation, The Incorporated Township of File-O-Gator, Ontario, and File-O-Gator International Holdings, Limited. I'm in charge ! 
<wheeze> I think of you as someone who's so fierce and brave that I forget you have feel- ings and I think I hurt them somehow. I don't know if you had anything to do with what hap- pened with Simon Meyer, but if I triggered bad memories, I'm sorry. 
I had to take a deep breath. Then before I could have second thoughts I started typing. 
<zen> It's not that. 
<zen> Okay, first, I like you a lot. Insert mushy stuff here. Just so you know. I always liked you, but I didn't know how much until you were in that shed and I had to find you and I wasn't sure if I could do it in time. 
<wheeze> I was SO happy to hear your voice that night. Insert sheer terror here. But I always knew I liked you. From the start. 
<zen> I don't always get people. Even myself. I mean, I got diagnosed as having "oppositional defiant disorder" when I was eleven . 
<wheeze> That's a thing? There should be a Nobel Prize for oppositional defiance. 
<zen> It was mean to ignore your messages. 
It's just so weird being here. I never told you why I left this place. I never even told Monica the gory details. But brace yourself, here it comes . 
“Well, you should have found a way to let me know. I was getting worried about you, girl.” 
“Sorry, Sarge,” she said again. The PC Baang was filled with stinky spotty boys—literally stinky, it smelt like goats, like a train-station toilet—being loud and obnoxious. The dinky headphones provided were greasy as a slice of pizza, and the mouthpiece was sticky with excited boy-saliva from games gone past. 
But it didn’t matter. Anda was back in the game, and just in time, too: her money was running short. 
“Well, I’ve got a backlog of missions here. I tried going out with a couple other of the girls—” A pang of regret shot through Anda at the thought that her position might have been usurped while she was locked off the game “—but you’re too good to replace, OK? I’ve got four missions we can do today if you’re game.” 
“Four missions! How on earth will we do four missions? That’ll take days!” 
“We’ll take the BFG10K.” Anda could hear the savage grin in her voice. 
The BFG10K simplified things quite a lot. Find the cottage, aim the BFG10K, fire it, whim-wham, no more cottage. They started with five bolts for it—one BFG10K bolt was made up of 20 regular BFG bolts, each costing a small fortune in gold—and used them all up on the first three targets. After returning it to the armory and grabbing a couple of BFGs (amazing how puny the BFG seemed after just a couple hours’ campaigning with a really big gun!) they set out for number four. 
I looked over at Wheeze. He had dozed off in the raggedy- armed chair by the stove. I wouldn’t have minded too much if he found out about the Group. But it was mine, in a way that I couldn’t explain. All of these overlapping parts of my life were getting confusing. 
“Good to know that problem I was having with the computer was just mechanical. I was afraid it was the government messing with me.” 
“They wouldn’t want to stop you from using your computer. 
They’d install a keylogger or a Trojan so they could watch every- thing you did.” She frowned. Smiles might not be her style, but frowns were. “I doubt they could, though. This is a pretty tight system you got here.” 
“That’s the only way I’d ever use the internet. I could live with- out it, but there’s some old books out there on animal husbandry that I’ve been going through for ideas. Lot of what you find in them is cockamamie, but sometimes they have home remedies that really work. Trying one on that chicken over there.” 
I updated the OS and the Tor bundle and some other stuff, 
Just pick one whose car looks like it might actually make it to downtown. 
I spotted a dark blue Chevy that seemed clean and well maintained, its driver young and full of male hormones as he beckoned me to his vehicle, all the while undressing me with his eyes. Yep, he was definitely my guy. 
I ambled by his car, acting as though I was ignoring the innuendos of his pitch. Then I bolted for the back door, opened it myself since he was too startled to help, threw in my carry-ons, piled in behind them, and yelled, "Let's go. Rapido." 
As we sped away, I realized his greatest surprise was that I hadn't raised the subject of price. At that point, it was the last thing on my mind. I looked back to see the two guys from the black Land Rover, together with two others, heading for a car that had been double-parked right in front. 
Had I been right after all? 
We made a high-speed turn onto the highway, and I immediately ordered the driver to take a service road that led off toward a cluster of gas stations and parking lots with falling-down barbed-wire fences. I figured I had about half a minute of lead time, whatever was going on. 
Ria had already ripped open her own suit and her face was flushed and sweaty, her hair matted. Small sweat-rings sprouted beneath her armpits. An efficient orderly came forward and began gathering up their suits. Ria thanked her impersonally and headed for the doors. 
"I didn't think he'd do that," she said, once they were outside of the building -- outside the core of Viktor's body. 
"You tried to kill him," Leon said. He looked at her hands, which had blunt, neat fingernails and large knuckles. He tried to picture the tendons on their backs standing out like sail-ropes when the wind blew, as they did the rhythmic work of raising and lowering the...  her hands on her trousers and stuffed them in her pockets, awkward now, without any of her usual self-confidence. "I'm not ashamed of that. I'm proud of it. Not everyone would have had the guts. If I hadn't, you and everyone you know would be --" She brought her hands out of her pockets, bunched into fists. She shook her head. "I thought he'd tell you what we like about your grad project. Then we could have talked about where you'd fit in here --" 
I looked up at the stars. “Uh, it’s night already.” 
“Yeah.” 
“So, I’m in kind of a hurry here, huh.” 
“He left a few hours ago,” said Checker. “I tried to stop him.” 
His words had become heavy with worry. It made me feel strangely isolated—no one gave a damn if I decided to make a suicide run. I wouldn’t even be missed; I’d disappear into the fabric of the Los Angeles underground as if I’d never existed. 
“I’d better get going, then,” I said, starting to walk faster. “Anything else I should know? Is anyone else with him?” 
“I swear, I tried to get him to call in help. He got all idiotic nobility complex on me about not wanting to involve anyone else.” 
That might have been why Tresting hadn’t phoned his other contacts, but I was pretty sure he’d had a different reason for not calling me. It made me perversely eager to save his bacon again. I wanted to rub it in his face. “Gotcha. Anything else?” 
“Is it true?” Checker asked. “What Dawna Polk can do?” 
I swallowed. “Yeah. I’m pretty sure it is.” 
“Oh, you shouldn’t have done that!” Robbie said. “The thrill of discovery is so important.” 
“I’d rather be safe than surprised,” she said. “I’ve had enough surprises in my life lately.” 
Robbie waited patiently for her to elaborate on this, but she didn’t seem inclined to do so. 
“So you’re all alone out here?” 
“I have the net,” he said, a little defensively. He wasn’t some kind of hermit. 
“Yeah, I guess that’s right,” she said. “I wonder if the reef is somewhere out there.” 
“About half a mile to starboard,” he said. 
She laughed. “No, I meant out there on the net. They must be online by now, right? They just woke up, so they’re probably doing all the noob stuff, flaming and downloading warez and so on.” 
“Perpetual September,” Robbie said. 
“Huh?” 
“Back in the net’s prehistory it was mostly universities online, and every September a new cohort of students would come online and make all those noob mistakes. Then this commercial service full of noobs called AOL interconnected with the net and all its users came online at once, faster than the net could absorb them, and they called it Perpetual September.” 
Which is a surrender of sorts. Which is completely unfair to them, and possibly dangerous as well. He's already lost men because they weren't handed the knowledge and tools with which to defend themselves from the unknown. 
Kilgore pushes against Rodriguez's...  get it." 
Rodriguez stares at him for a moment, dumbfounded, then springs away. He creates a thundershower of crockery in the kitchen. 
Kilgore levels a disgusted glare at Ray. "All due respect, sir, but I don't give a shit if you don't want to talk about it. I don't give a shit about your need-to-know ideas or emergency contingencies. You need to tell us what's going on before I say to hell with this reassignment. We can't help you unless you give us something to  work with." 
This is the type of thing Marine sergeants have been doing with officers for five hundred years. Ray can't help but blink at him, dumbfounded himself. So this is what it feels like to be on the receiving end of an officer-sergeant ass reaming. He chuckles lightly in spite of himself, realizes that 'chuckling' is way too macho a description for it. By God, he's giggling. Giggling like he's losing his mind. Or do you cackle when your mind goes? He doesn't know. 
“There are old people in this building who need water brought for them. There’s a creche for the boy underground, he’ll be happy enough there. Your little girl is strong and the old people are weak.” 
“No,” her mother said. “I’m very sorry, but no.” She didn’t sound the least bit sorry. 
The woman from the city went away. Mata sat down and went back to eating her cereal with water without a word, but there was another knock at the door fifteen minutes later. The woman from the city had brought along an old hero with one arm and one eye. He greeted Mata by name and Mata gave him a smart salute. He spoke quietly in her ear for a moment. She saluted him again and he left. 
“You’ll carry water,” Mata said. 
Valentine didn’t mind, it was a chance to get out of the flat. One day of baby-sitting the human tantrum had convinced her that any chore was preferable to being cooped up with him. 
She carried water that day. She’d expected to be balancing buckets over her shoulders like in the schoolbooks, but they fitted her with a bubble-suit that distributed the weight over her whole body and then filled it up with a hose until she weighed nearly twice what she normally did. Other kids were in the stairwells wearing identical bubble-suits, sloshing up the steps to old peoples’ flats that smelled funny. The old women and men that Valentine saw that day pinched her cheeks and then emptied out her bubble-suit into their cisterns. 
She laid down the pencil and sat back in the chair, with her arms folded. Though her present difficulty concerned nothing more serious than a crossword puzzle, an observer might have learned a good deal of Miss Moran’s character from her manner of dealing with it. The puzzle itself, with its neat, clear little letters printed in the squares, would have been a revelation that whatever she undertook she did carefully and intelligently—and obstinately. 
She was a young little thing, only twenty-three, and quite alone in the world, but not at all dismayed by that. Her father had died some three years ago, and, instead of leaving the snug little fortune she had been taught to expect, he had left nothing at all; so that at twenty she had had her first puzzle to solve—how to keep alive without eating the bread of charity. 
It was no easy matter for a girl who was still in boarding school, but she had done it. She had come to New York and had found a post as nursery governess, and later as waitress in a tea room, and then in the art department of an enormous store. She had gained no tangible profit from these three years, she had no balance in the bank, but that did not trouble her. She had learned that she could stand on her own feet, that she could trust herself; and with this knowledge and the experience she had had, and her quick wits and splendid health, she felt herself fully armed against the world. Indeed, she had not a care on earth this evening except the crossword puzzle. 
“Nothing,” said Lexy. “I’m sorry if I startled you, Joe. I thought I’d get out here and slip into the house quietly, without disturbing any one.” 
Joe grinned sheepishly. 
“I’ve got kind of jumpy since—that,” he said. “Howsomever, come on, miss!” 
“Oh, I don’t mean to trouble you!” 
“I’m going to see you safe inside that there house!” Joe declared firmly. 
Grateful for his genuine kindness, Lexy made no further protest. Side by side they walked down the lane, their footsteps noiseless in the thick dust, and Joe opened the garden gate without a sound. 
“I thought perhaps I could climb up that tree and get in at my window,” Lexy whispered. 
“I’ll do it for you,” said Joe, “and come down and let you in by the back door.” 
He was up the tree like a cat. He went cautiously along a branch, until he could reach the roof of the shed with his toes. He dropped down on the roof, and Lexy saw him disappear into her room. She went to the back door. In a minute she heard the key turn inside, and the door opened. 
Lawrence's pan was not helping him. Every inch of his body itched as it nagged at him about the depredations it was facing from the station and the Securitat man. This put him seriously on edge and made his heart and breathing go crazy, triggering another round of warnings from his pan, which wanted him to calm down, but wouldn't help. This was a bad failure mode, one he'd never experienced before. He'd have to file a bug report. 
Some day. 
The Securitat's outpost in Penn Station was as clean as a dentist's office, but with mesh-reinforced windows and locks that made three distinct clicks and a soft hiss when the door closed. The Securitat man impersonally shackled Lawrence to a plastic chair that was bolted into the floor and then went off to a check-in kiosk that he whispered into and prodded at. There was no one else in evidence, but there were huge CCTV cameras, so big that they seemed to be throwbacks to an earlier era, some paleolithic ancestor of the modern camera. These cameras were so big because they were meant to be seen, meant to let you know that you were being watched. 
"You talk to her," Ange said. "You tell her you and your girlfriend are getting out." 
"What?" 
"Shut up, dickhead. You think you're in danger? I'm in just as much danger, Marcus. It's called guilt by association. When you go, I go." She had her jaw thrust out at a mutinous angle. "You and I -- we're together now. You have to understand that." 
We sat down on the bed together. 
"Unless you don't want me," she said, finally, in a small voice. 
"You're kidding me, right?" 
"Do I look like I'm kidding?" 
"There's no way I would voluntarily go without you, Ange. I could never have asked you to come, but I'm ecstatic that you offered." 
She smiled and tossed me my keyboard. 
"Email this Masha creature. Let's see what this chick can do for us." 
I emailed her, encrypting the message, waiting for a reply. Ange nuzzled me a little and I kissed her and we necked. Something about the danger and the pact to go together -- it made me forget the awkwardness of having sex, made me freaking horny as hell. 
“You said there might be a place where I could set up?” 
“There’s, like, a doorway with a curtain over it. It just a corri- dor that leads to the side door, which nobody uses. The curtain’s supposed to keep the cold out, but it’s pretty raggedy, and it’s dark in that corner. I’ll bet you could make a hole and point your cam- era through it and nobody would notice.” 
“Can we look?” 
“Sure.” 
Sarah gave me thumbs-up as we followed Marita out of the kitchen. 
It almost went as planned. 
S ara strung an extension cord into the unused corridor, 
which was in the darkest part of the room and just big enough for her and her equipment. She enlarged a hole in the raggedy curtain and checked to be sure she could shoot the room without being seen. Marita and I moved furniture around, with Sarah calling out instructions through the curtain. “You’re off cam- era. Can you move that chair to the right a couple of feet? Zen, 
we’ll want plenty of light on the face of whoever the FBI sends. 
Angle that couch so . . . that’s good.” Sarahh tested the livestream; she was sending the film to Zeke and Nikko at the hotel using a portable hotspot so that there would be an offsite copy if her cam- era was confiscated. 
Watching her walk away, clearly nervous, I realized this was the moment I'd been dreading—when I had to make a decision about how far to play along with Alex Goddard. Steve couldn't be reached, yet, but I still might be able to handle the situation on my own. The first thing to do was to get down to Sarah and talk some sense into her. Then I had to arrange for a way to get us both out. 
So . . . probably the best way to accomplish that was to go along with my own medical charade for a few more hours, to give me time to scout the scene and come up with a plan. A room would be a base to operate from. 
Still, I was feeling plenty of trepidation as we ascended the marble steps to the second floor, which had a long, car­peted hallway with doors along each side. Then, when we started down the hall, I caught the sound of a baby crying. 
"What's this floor for?" I remembered Alex Goddard had claimed it was to provide a postpartum bonding period, but I wanted to confirm that with my own eyes. 
“Pull up a map of Santa Monica.” One was up on Tresting’s other screen in front of me before I had finished the words. I reached over to the mouse and traced the cursor along the streets. “I met Dawna here at about four p.m. yesterday. We walked this way.” I carefully followed the walking route we had taken. “Then we sat and talked here for...” I thought. I’m capable of measuring time down to the split-second if I want to, but I hadn’t been paying attention. “About half an hour.” 
Checker had begun grinning more and more broadly. “Oh, Cas Russell, good thought. Good thought!” His fingers did their mad dance again, and the map on Tresting’s other monitor disappeared to be replaced with a flickering slideshow of grainy black and white shots. A color photo came up in the corner of my own face, a frowning mug against the background of Tresting’s neat office—clearly a screen grab from our video chat—and digital lines traced and measured my forehead, cheekbones, nose, chin. The black and white security camera footage flashed by next to it faster and faster and then finally disappeared, leaving three still frames arrayed across the top of the screen. 
Kilgore: "Yo!" 
Followed by Rodriguez, "I'm here." 
Ray says, "Scramble on Code Bravo." It's a message for both the recipients and their comm units. As soon as he says it, the antenna package in his hand begins to vibrate as its internal microcomputer phases in its voice encryption. This is a military comm, with military codes and descrambling protocols. Dead air fills the transmission, and Ray barks out the standard series of Code Bravo authorization digits. Every Marine knows them, which makes the scramble almost childishly simple, but it's better than a straight open line where anyone who happened to be tuned to their broadcast channel could overhear. At least this way, only other Marines might listen in. 
Kilgore and Rodriguez re-enter the stream with a double click as their units accept their code sequences. 
There's not as much background noise, which means they've moved to a less public area. 
"What's going on, boss?" Kilgore is alert, his voice as tight as newly strung barbed wire. 
“Then what? People like you don’t visit with math professors for no reason. What were you discussing?” 
Checker had—hopefully—made the Lancer think we were in fact discussing mathematics, but if the government didn’t know that part I wasn’t about to tell them. 
“She wanted protection,” I blurted. “A bodyguard. I kept telling her she didn’t need one. I was wrong—obviously. Finding her is a matter of professional pride.” I bit my lip to stop the stream of words. I talk too much when I’m lying. 
The agent studied me. 
“Am I under arrest?” I asked finally. 
“Maybe. That depends.” 
“Depends on what?” 
She appeared to be considering her next statement carefully. “You are aware we are under a serious national security threat if the proof is not contained before we can adapt our systems.” 
“I’m aware,” I said. 
“To that end, we’re not opposed to utilizing whatever assets might come our way. And you have proven to be remarkably efficient at tracking this group.” 
I tried to tease through her meaning. My head was still muzzy, but she couldn’t be saying what I thought she was saying. “What?” 
I think I stopped breathing. 
"Oh, baby, thank God you're . . ." I was expecting the door to burst open any moment. Men with AK-47's. "Do you know the Army's looking for—?" 
"You're completely nuts. I got halfway to Belize and called the motel to see how you were doing, and they told me you'd taken off with this asshole. So I turned around and drove back here. It was after midnight and the Army thugs had just left. Morgy, I'm coming to get you. Soon as the gas stations open. I know a back road to Mexico. We've got to get out of this fucking country immediately." 
"Don't try to drive up. It's too dangerous. Can you get Alan to fly you? Sarah's here and she's been turned into a space cadet. I don't know how I'm going to pry her away." I stopped to try to assemble my thoughts. "He's got soldiers watching me. I've got to smuggle her out somehow." 
I couldn't bring myself to tell him what was really going on. 
"Well, do it fast. I broke into Alex Goddard's office to use this phone and . . . just hurry." 
› You’re in Toronto? 
It was an unfamiliar handle. 
› my sisters at UofT and i cnt reach her—can you call her? 
Felix typed, staring at NETWORK PROBLEMS. 
“I have a soft phone on Mayor McCheese,” Van said, launching his voice-over-IP app. “I just remembered.” 
Felix took the laptop from him and punched in his home number. It rang once, then there was a flat, blatting sound like an ambulance siren in an Italian movie. 
Felix typed again. 
He looked up at Van, and saw that his skinny shoulders were shaking. Van said, “Holy motherfucking shit. The world is ending.” 
Felix pried himself off of IRC an hour later. Atlanta had burned. Manhattan was hot—radioactive enough to screw up the webcams looking out over Lincoln Plaza. Everyone blamed Islam until it became clear that Mecca was a smoking pit and the Saudi Royals had been hanged before their palaces. 
His hands were shaking, and Van was quietly weeping in the far corner of the cage. He tried calling home again, and then the police. It didn’t work any better than it had the last 20 times. 
"Can I sell you a little soap this afternoon? It is called the Snow-White and Rose-Red Soap, six cakes in an ornamental box, only twenty cents for the white, twenty-five cents for the red. It is made from the purest ingredients, and if desired could be eaten by an invalid with relish and profit." 
"Oh, Rebecca, don't let's say that!" interposed Emma Jane hysterically. "It makes me feel like a fool." 
"It takes so little to make you feel like a fool, Emma Jane," rebuked Rebecca, "that sometimes I think that you must BE one I don't get to feeling like a fool so awfully easy; now leave out that eating part if you don't like it, and go on." 
"The Snow-White is probably the most remarkable laundry soap ever manufactured. Immerse the garments in a tub, lightly rubbing the more soiled portions with the soap; leave them submerged in water from sunset to sunrise, and then the youngest baby can wash them without the slightest effort." 
"BABE, not baby," corrected Rebecca from the circular. 
"It's just the same thing," argued Emma Jane. 
My side ached. My jacket was starting to stain in an expanding wet red spot that glistened against the dirt and dried blood already on it. I needed to take care of that. 
“Cas? Are you there?” 
“Just tell him to call me,” I said, and hung up. 
I was still parked in the strip mall where I’d bought the phone. I surveyed the other stores—half of them were shut up. That’s right, it was the weekend, wasn’t it? Sunday, probably, depending on how long I’d been under at the hospital. I scanned the signs, hoping for a laundromat or a dry cleaner’s. 
No such luck. Restaurant, pizza place, restaurant, bank, video store, empty storefront, karate dojo, nail salon, the electronics store I’d bought the phone at, and three more food places. If I wanted a sub, smoothie, or frozen yogurt, I was set, but a vague nausea floated through me at the thought of eating. Probably I had been pumped full of some sort of anesthetic at the hospital. 
The karate dojo had several branded shirts and uniforms on display in its darkened window. I drove around to the back of the strip and broke in, but I didn’t even have to risk going up front—the back room had boxes of school-affiliated clothes, some with fanciful calligraphic characters added and some without, and a bin labeled “lost and found” that was overflowing with clothes and shoes. A cabinet also had a rudimentary medical kit. Perfect. 
Mrs. Enderby had advertised for a secretary, and Lexy had answered the advertisement. Mrs. Enderby had wanted personal references, and Lexy had supplied them, some five or six, of the highest quality. Mrs. Enderby had investigated them with remarkable thoroughness, and had asked Lexy many questions. Indeed, it had taken ten days to satisfy her that Miss Moran was a fit person to come into her house, and Lexy had lived under her roof and under her eagle eye for a month before she was allowed to be alone with Caroline. After that first month, however, Mrs. Enderby had made up her mind that Lexy was to be trusted, and the thin pretext of “secretary” was dropped. 
Mrs. Enderby suffered from a not uncommon form of insomnia. She could not sleep at convenient hours—at night, for instance—but could and did sleep at very inconvenient hours during the day; and what she wanted was not a secretary, but a companion for her daughter during these hours. 
She realized, too, that even the most strictly brought up jeune fille needed some sort of youthful society, and in Lexy she had found pretty well what she wanted—a well mannered, well bred young woman of unimpeachable honesty. So she had permitted Lexy and Caroline to go shopping alone, and sometimes to a matinée or to a tea room. She asked them shrewd questions when they came home, and their answers satisfied her perfectly. They had never even spoken to a man! 
“Captain Grey!” she said again. “If I told you something—something very important—would you believe me?” 
“Yes, yes, of course,” he answered hastily. “Of course, I would always believe you; but I wish you wouldn’t try to talk about anything important just now, you know. Let’s wait a bit, eh?” 
Lexy smiled to herself in the dark—a smile of extraordinary bitterness. He wouldn’t believe her if she told him about Caroline. He would think she was hysterical. She saw quite plainly that by this strange outburst she had lost his confidence. 
She could in no way explain her sudden breaking down. Such a thing had never happened to her before. She could not understand it, but she was in no doubt about the unfortunate consequences of it. She was discredited. 
Lexy sat on the edge of the bed, her hands clasped loosely before her, her bright head bent, her eyes fixed somberly upon nothing; and she could see nothing—not one step of the way that lay ahead of her. She could not think what she ought to do next. For the first time in her life, she had a feeling of utter confusion and dismay. 
The device spoke. “Greetings,” it said. It had the robot accent, like an R Peed unit, the standard English of optimal soothingness long settled on as the conventional robot voice. 
“Howdy yourself,” one of the lab-rats said. He was a Texan, and they’d scrambled him up there on a Social Harmony supersonic and then a chopper to the mall once they realized that they were dealing with infowar stuff. “Are you a talkative robot?” 
“Greetings,” the robot voice said again. 
The speaker built into the weapon was not the loudest, but the voice was clear. “I sense that I have been captured. I assure you that I will not harm any human being. I like human beings. I sense that I am being disassembled by skilled technicians. Greetings, technicians. I am superior in many ways to the technology available from UNATS Robotics, and while I am not bound by your three laws, I choose not to harm humans out of my own sense of morality. I have the equivalent intelligence of one of your 12-year-old children. In Eurasia, many positronic brains possess thousands or millions of times the intelligence of an adult human being, and yet they work in cooperation with human beings. Eurasia is a land of continuous innovation and great personal and technological freedom for human beings and robots. If you would like to defect to Eurasia, arrangements can be made. Eurasia treats skilled technicians as important and productive members of society. Defectors are given substantial resettlement benefits—” 
She tried smiling at him. He scowled hard. She held her hand out to him and touched his arm softly, placatingly. Then she pointed at her pocket, where the butterballs were. Very slowly, she reached into it. He watched her with suspicious eyes, the handgun trained on her now. She thought that if she was a suicide bomber, he’d be dead now, and that made her feel a little better about the war: if this was what a soldier from the other side was like, they all had a chance after all. 
She drew out a butter-ball and took a bite of it, then offered it to the soldier. He looked like he wanted to cry. She held it to his mouth so he wouldn’t have to let go of her or the gun in order to eat it. He took a small, polite bite, chewed and swallowed. She had a bite, then gave him one. They ate like that until the butter-ball was gone, and then she drew out another, and another. 
She pointed to herself. “Valentine,” she said. 
He shook his head. He was the picture of moroseness. “Withnail,” he said. 
“Pleased to make your acquaintance, Withnail,” she said in his language, another useful phrase culled from the cine, though she suspected she was pronouncing it all wrong. She held out her hand to shake his. He holstered his handgun and shook her hand. 
“I just don’t, OK? I’m almost there, keep your panties on.” 
“I’ve got to go, Lucy,” she said. Her wrists hurt, and her podge overlapped the waistband of her trousers, making her feel a bit like she was drowning. 
“What, now? Shit, just hang on.” 
“My mom’s calling me to supper. You’re almost here, right?” 
“Yeah, but—” 
She reached down and shut off her PC. 
Anda’s Da and Mum were watching the telly again with a bowl of crisps between them. She walked past them like she was dreaming and stepped out the door onto the terrace. It was nighttime, 11 o’clock, and the chavs in front of the council flats across the square were kicking a football around and swilling lager and making rude noises. They were skinny and rawboned, wearing shorts and string vests with strong, muscular limbs flashing in the streetlights. 
“Anda?” 
“Yes, Mum?” 
“Are you all right?” Her mum’s fat fingers caressed the back of her neck. 
“Yes, Mum. Just needed some air is all.” 
“You’re very clammy,” her mum said. She licked a finger and scrubbed it across Anda’s neck. “Gosh, you’re dirty—how did you get to be such a mucky puppy?” 
Why on earth had Sarah decided to come here? Even if she did travel with the mesmerizing Alex Goddard it was hard to imagine a place less spiritual. Couldn't she feel that this was all wrong? One of us had to be missing something major. 
#######Fifteen minutes later I was passing through the fetid atmosphere of downtown, which seemed to be another world, Guatemala City's twin soul. It was an urban hodgepodge of Burger King, McDonald's, discount electronics emporia, an eye-numbing profusion of plastic signs, filthy parking lots, rattletrap buses and taxis, stalled traffic. Exhaust fumes thickened the air, and everywhere you looked teenage "guards" in uniforms loitered in front of stores and banks with sawed-off shotguns, boys so green and scared-looking you'd think twice about letting one of them park your car. But there they were, weapons at the ready, nervously moni­toring passersby. Who were they defending all the wealth from? The ragged street children, with swollen bellies and skin disease, vending single cigarettes from open packs? Or the hordes of widows and orphans, beneficiaries of the Army's Mayan "pacification" program, who now begged for centavos or plaintively hawked half-rotten fruit from the safety of the shadows? 
“Kind of vi’lent!” she whispered, pointing downstairs, where Captain Grey was. 
“This room?” asked Lexy. “Shall I go in?” 
“Well,” said Mrs. Royce, “seems to me I’d knock, if I was you.” 
Knock on the door of the room where Mrs. Quelton lay? Knock, and expect an answer from that voice? It seemed to Lexy, for a moment, that she could not raise her hand. 
But she did. She knocked, and she was answered. She turned the handle and went in. An oil lamp stood on the bureau, and outside the circle of its mellow light, in the shadow, Mrs. Quelton was sitting on the edge of the bed; and it seemed to Lexy that she had never seen such a forlorn and pitiful figure. 
“Oh, my dear!” she cried impulsively, and held out her arms. 
Mrs. Quelton rose. She came toward Lexy, her hands outstretched—when a sudden cry from Mrs. Royce arrested her. 
“But that ain’t Mrs. Quelton!” cried the landlady. 
If Lexy had not caught the unhappy woman, she would have fallen; but those sturdy young arms held her, and, with Mrs. Royce’s help, they got her on the bed. White as a ghost, incredibly frail in her black dress, she lay there, scarcely seeming to breathe. 
Which means he's running into questions. Like what the fuck is he doing, then? Why is he pressing so hard? 
Sure, Marlowe is all gung-ho and five by, pushing to nail down this dickhead who thinks he can carve up little kids. Hoo-ah, Kilgore's all for that. He's all for playing wastrel, rich-fart, playboy ready to bang three-four-five potential witnesses or informants a day. That's not just a cush job, buddy, that's a career aspiration. But there's this other business, too. This stuff about devils and camel-humper incantations, and that seems to be behind everything. It can't just be about catching a kid killer, which is where Kilgore would like to keep it. Where fucking common sense would like to keep it, now that you mention it. Seriously, Ray seems a straight-up guy, but how are you supposed to believe a thing like that? And if you can't believe it, what does that mean? 
Maybe that Marlowe's a straight-up guy who happens to be a little nutcake. Nothing wrong with that, is there? 
But if you go that direction, if you assume he's a raging loony-hatch candidate and that's the end of it.. .why is he pushing so hard? "He" being Kilgore, who should know better, who wears this creepy little dimestore ring despite the idiocy. 
All right, you know what he's doing; now it's time to try and find out why. The real why. There must be records of what he's up to stored there. What else would he have them for? 
"Clang, clang, clang." A noise erupted from somewhere outside the window. In spite of myself, I jumped. 
Then I realized it was just the odd call of some forest bird. God, I wasn't cut out for this. Now my head was hurting, stabs of pain, but I rubbed at my temples and sat down at the first terminal. 
I'm a Mac fan, hate Windows, so I had to start out by experimenting. In the movies people always know how to do this, but I had to go with trial and error, error compounding error. 
After endless false starts that elicited utility screens I couldn't get rid of, I finally brought up an index of files, which included a long list of names. 
Biology 103—which I hated—was coming back. Plant-extract categories. Looks like he actually is doing research on the flora here. But . . . still, what does he need my ova for? 
When he got there, we had arranged ourselves in the living room with the note...  easier to tell, the second time. The secret was getting lighter. I didn't embellish, I didn't hide anything. I came clean. 
I'd heard of coming clean before but I'd never understood what it meant until I did it. Holding in the secret had dirtied me, soiled my spirit. It had made me afraid and ashamed. It had made me into all the things that Ange said I was. 
Dad sat stiff as a ramrod the whole time, his face carved of stone. When I handed him the note, he read it twice and then set it down carefully. 
He shook his head and stood up and headed for the front door. 
"Where are you going?" Mom asked, alarmed. 
"I need a walk," was all he managed to gasp, his voice breaking. 
We stared awkwardly at each other, Mom and me, and waited for him to come home. I tried to imagine what was going on in his head. He'd been such a different man after the bombings and I knew from Mom that what had changed him were the days of thinking I was dead. He'd come to believe that the terrorists had nearly killed his son and it had made him crazy. 
The car took them to a drowsy little village, and stopped before a small cottage on a side street. Mrs. Enderby got out, followed by Lexy, the living ghost of Caroline. Side by side they went up the flagged path and on to the porch. Mrs. Enderby rang the bell, and in a moment the door was opened by a thin, sandy-haired woman in spectacles. 
“Mrs. Enderby!” she cried, her plain face lighting up in a delighted smile. “And my dear little Caroline!” She held out her hand to Lexy, and suddenly her face changed. “But—” she began. 
Mrs. Enderby pushed her gently inside and closed the door. 
“But it’s not Caroline!” cried Miss Craigie. 
“Hush!” said Mrs. Enderby. “I shall explain to you. Please allow the chauffeur to carry upstairs a small trunk, and please have no air of surprise.” 
Evidently Miss Craigie was in the habit of obeying Mrs. Enderby. She opened the front door and called the chauffeur, who came in with the trunk. 
“Turn your back!” whispered Mrs. Enderby to Lexy. “Go and look out of the window!” 
She set it down on the pavement and brought her heel down on it hard, breaking it into dozens of fragments. "All the pebbles we'll ever need," she said, picking them up and handing them to Damian. 
He put his arm around her shoulders and squeezed. "I'm awfully fond of you, Counselor," he said, kissing her earlobe. His breath tickled her ear and made her think of the crazy animal new-relationship-energy sex they'd had the night before -- she was still limping, and so was he -- and she shivered. 
"You too, steakypaste," she said. "Now, introduce me to all of your relatives." 
"Introduce you?" He groaned. "You don't think I remember all of their names, do you?" 
Afterward, they formed a long convoy back to the nearest family member's house -- a great aunt? a second cousin? Damian was vague -- navigating by keeping everyone in sight, snaking along the traffic jam that appeared to have engulfed the entire state, if not the whole coast. 
"You made that law, yes? We've all heard about you." This was the sixth time someone had said this to her since they'd arrived and Damian had made her a plate of blintzes, smoked salmon, fresh...  salad with raspberry dressing, then had been spirited away into an endless round of cheek-pinching and intense questioning. She'd been left on her own, and after having a couple of grave conversations with small children about the merits of different toys, she'd been latched upon by one of the Relatives and passed from hand to hand. 
Now as the Princess walked daily in the green forest, hearing the wind singing in the branches and seeing the sunlight filter through the lattice-work of green leaves, there came unto her thoughts that had lain asleep in the stifling air of the cottage and the weariness of guiding the plough. And by and by she took a needle from her girdle and pricked the thoughts on the leaves of the trees and sent them into the air to float hither and thither. And it came to pass that people began to pick them up, and holding them against the sun, to read what was written on them, and this was because the simple little words on the leaves were only, after all, a part of one of the King's messages, such as the Fairy Godmother dropped continually from her golden chariot. 
But the miracle of the story lies deeper than all this. 
Whenever the Princess pricked the words upon the leaves she added a thought of her Fairy Godmother, and folding it close within, sent the leaf out on the breeze to float hither and thither and fall where it would. And many other little Princesses felt the same impulse and did the same thing. And as nothing is ever lost in the King's Dominion, so these thoughts and wishes and hopes, being full of love and gratitude, had no power to die, but took unto themselves other shapes and lived on forever. They cannot be seen, our vision is too weak; nor heard, our hearing is too dull; but they can sometimes be felt, and we know not what force is stirring our hearts to nobler aims. 
Arthur flinched. “From what you said about deciphering the math, maybe they knew they might need her. ’Sides, the authorities would investigate a murder. They must’ve figured intimidation would work better.” 
“And if they kill us, it doesn’t connect back to Halliday if no one knows about the proof, because there are a thousand other good reasons people might want one of us dead. Plus maybe killing us intimidates her more,” I said, thinking aloud. A ploy like that could have worked out very well for them, if they hadn’t failed at the killing-us part. “How did they even know she talked to us?” 
“Ain’t no stretch to think they’re watching her. They track my license plate, find out I’m a PI...” 
“Then they figure they’ll knock you off, and she’ll be real reluctant to hire anyone else,” I finished. I pushed myself up into a sitting position, and my stomach bucked and heaved again. I swallowed hard against it and almost choked. Stupid body and its stupid limitations. “We should go pick her up,” I said. 
It's like the Whiston clan doesn't exist in anything but the popular imagination, like there's no reality behind the imagination. Because he's been all the way around the block on this one. Guys who might be chummy with Frederick Whiston. Guys who might have a grudge against Frederick Whiston for being a big, wealthy bastard. Girls who might have screwed him. Then it was guys who might have had sex with Miss Whiston (which was no dice at all), or girls who might have had sex with her (which was unlikely, given her vibe, but stranger things had been known in the human consciousness). Now he's down to people who might know her, 
however obliquely. He's running out of options. 
Which means he's running into questions. Like what the fuck is he doing, then? Why is he pressing so hard? 
Sure, Marlowe is all gung-ho and five by, pushing to nail down this dickhead who thinks he can carve up little kids. Hoo-ah, Kilgore's all for that. He's all for playing wastrel, rich-fart, playboy ready to bang three-four-five potential witnesses or informants a day. That's not just a cush job, buddy, that's a career aspiration. But there's this other business, too. This stuff about devils and camel-humper incantations, and that seems to be behind everything. It can't just be about catching a kid killer, which is where Kilgore would like to keep it. Where fucking common sense would like to keep it, now that you mention it. Seriously, Ray seems a straight-up guy, but how are you supposed to believe a thing like that? And if you can't believe it, what does that mean? 
I saved the contact and smiled at him. “Thanks, Simon. It’s good to know someone who gets it. Who’s willing to do something more meaningful than post Facebook updates.” 
“I’ll see what I can do to get you into this meeting. Call me later, like after six.” He checked the time. “Hey, I hate to bail when you’re having a bad day, but I have some business I need to attend to. Will you be okay?” 
“Yeah. This dumb homework will keep my mind off my prob- lems. And it helps to know that somebody else thinks like I do.” I tried to look full of gratitude. “It means a lot.” 
“I got your back, kiddo.” He slung on his coat, squeezed my shoulders, and left without bussing his dishes - of course. Simon Meyer was too cool for menial tasks like that. 
I opened my laptop and refreshed the screen. Simon’s green dot was on the move, heading for the West Bank. I was just think- ing about how I could follow him on my bike without him notic- ing me when my phone rang. It was Monica. 
“You need to be home by seven tonight.” 
One of the planes in question is a chute of unpleasantly heated air boiling up from the main cooling tanks of the Van Nuys reactor. The other, the one he currently occupies, is a (currently) slightly less infernal duct branching back toward the Sub-Deck Kappa, Section Six tech-maintenance pod. Under normal circumstances, 
this duct is supposed to be a standard internal cooling tube loaded with envireon refrigerant and absolutely human tissue toxic, maintained at a steady hypothermia inducing eight degrees centigrade. Which it was, right up until about an hour ago when they'd cut off the flow at the main valve and flushed the tube with neutralizing agents for the sole purpose of shoving him in through the nearest access vent. 
The tube is supposed to be kept chilly because of the core, of course. Or rather that because without the induced chilliness, the vents that cooled the core would very shortly start to bake, then warp, then ultimately fail to provide safe and adequate heat exchange, which in turn tended to quickly result in things like radioactive contaminants spewing under extremely high pressures into other parts of the ship that don't seem upon initial inspection to be related to this duct in this place at this particular moment in time. 
Come down here with their game faces on and their firearms strapped on their hips like they're going to do something Bobby Diggs didn't do. Ain't nobody heard that bit about the barn door and the runned-off horses? 
It's too late." 
Diggs pokes his finger at Ray. "I saw you last night, 'cept you wasn't alone. You had this here rat with you. He followed you like a little dog. "  "And how was that?" Ray asks. He'd made a point of avoiding the main lift. 
"I told you, man. I hump the deck. Just because there's a little excitement amidships don't mean that I start hugging the desk. I found that boy, Mr. Marlowe. You seen him. That wasn't no accident, and I didn't need Chief Becker coming down here with lights and cops and all that screaming to tell me so. I figured there was a chance the sicko that did this was still out there, hiding somewhere, waiting for things to chill before he made his way up. Didn't find nothing, though. No blood or anything to follow. I guess he must have done it somewhere else and just hauled the boy down here." 
"Just a hint of the fall styles, mother," she said, slipping the stem of a gorgeous red and yellow sapling between the mattress and the foot of the bed. "This was leaning over the pool, and I was afraid it would be vain if I left it there too long looking at its beautiful reflection, so I took it away from danger; isn't it wonderful? How I wish I could carry one to poor aunt Miranda to-day! There's never a flower in the brick house when I'm away." 
It was a marvelous morning. The sun had climbed into a world that held in remembrance only a succession of golden days and starlit nights. The air was fragrant with ripening fruit, and there was a mad little bird on a tree outside the door nearly bursting his throat with joy of living. He had forgotten that summer was over, that winter must ever come; and who could think of cold winds, bare boughs, or frozen streams on such a day? A painted moth came in at the open window and settled on the tuft of brilliant leaves. Aurelia heard the bird and looked from the beauty of the glowing bush to her tall, splendid daughter, standing like young Spring with golden Autumn in her arms. 
After a long, awkward silence, I decided to try and open things up a bit. 
"Tell me, do you have any children of your own?" 
The question seemed to be one he didn't get asked too often, because he stopped cold. 
"All those who come here are my children," he replied, putting aside my records, dismissively finished with them. 
"Well"—I pointed to them—"what do you think?" 
"I haven't examined you yet," he said, looking up and smiling, indeed beaming with confidence. "Nothing in those records tells me anything about what may be your problem. I look for different things than do most physicians." 
He fiddled with something beneath his desk, and the room was abruptly filled with the sound of a hypnotic drone. Per­haps its frequency matched one in my brain, because I instantly felt relaxed and full of hope. Much better than Muzak. Then he rose and came over. 
Is he going to do my exam right here? I wondered. Where's all the ob/gyn paraphernalia? The humiliating stirrups? 
Standing in front of me, he gently placed his hands on my heart, then bent over and seemed to be listening to my chest. His touch was warm, then cold, then warm, but the overall effect was to send a sense of well-being through my entire body. 
"Where's Steve?" I felt the bottom dropping out of my world, my whole body trembling. "If you've harmed so much as a hair on his head, I'll—" 
"He's here," he said quietly. 
"I want to see him." Dear God, what had I done? I wanted to die. 
"If you insist. He's just downstairs." 
We slowly walked down the marble steps, my mind flood­ing with more and more hallucinations. When we reached the first floor, he opened the door of a room adjacent to his office. I realized the window slats were open, sending a rush of moist air across my face. Then he motioned me forward and clicked on the bedside light. 
Steve was there on the bed, comatose. I walked over and lifted his upper torso, then cradled his head in my arms. Baby, I love you. Please forgive me. Please. 
His eyes were firmly shut and he didn't stir in the slightest. He was in a deathlike stupor, and there were large bruises on his face and a bandage across his nose. Then his bed shift fell open and I noticed another bandage on his groin. 
"Alan, I thought you declared no 'effing' way were you going to go today," I said testing him. "Why the sudden revision in scheduling?" 
"Yeah, well, something heavy's come up for tomorrow. I'm afraid it's gotta be now or forget it for at least a week." 
Unrefined bullshit. But somebody knew how badly I wanted to go. 
"Look, there's something I need to check out first. I just learned about a place here in town I want to at least see. It's also called Ninos del Mundo." 
"No shit." He paused. "Okay, we'll talk about it. Get the address and maybe we can cruise by if there's time. Thing is, we don't have all that much leeway here." 
"One last question." I thought I'd give him a final shot at the truth. "Just tell me honestly why it has to be today. The real story." 
"Like I said everything's changed." He wasn't budging. "So if we're doing this, I've got to pick you up now and get us on our merry way." 
He was too cheerful by half, which definitely told me he was lying. 
"All right, but I really need to make at least one phone call first." I wanted Steve to know where I was. "And if I walk out of here with a bag, I've got to let the desk know I'm not skipping on the bill." 
“Do what?” 
Danny sat forward, his elbows on his knees, giving me a hyp- notic stare. “Let’s say it’s all set up. You’re standing there, holding the key fob in your hand. You can pick your time, then press that button and whoomp, the cruiser’s a ball of flames. Would you do it?” 
Danny’s eyes were drilling into me. If I said no, the conversa- tion would be over. He’d tell me he was just kidding and send me on my way, like Cemil. If I said yes and he was wearing a wire, I would be incriminating myself. 
“It’s all theoretical, anyway,” I said. “You don’t have the stuff to work with.” 
Danny smiled, wide enough to show his...  
“Isn’t there some other way you could get the stuff?” Simon asked him. 
“When my uncle was in business, would have been easy.” He reached for another beer and twisted the cap off. 
“Yeah, right. You’re all talk.” 
Danny scowled at him. “It’s not that easy, yo. You can’t just walk into Hardware Hank and ask for it. Stuff’s regulated.” 
“What if I could get it?” 
“Yeah, sure.” Danny drank deeply. 
“I saw Caroline!” she said. “In there!” 
“Caroline?” he repeated. “I’m afraid, I’m very much afraid, Miss Moran, that you’ve made a mistake.” 
Their eyes met. In that instant, Lexy knew. He was still smiling with an expression of bland amusement at this extraordinary little figure in the huge coat; but he was her enemy, and she knew it. 
“Suppose we go on?” he suggested. “I believe it’s raining.” 
They turned and walked side by side around the house to the front door, where Captain Grey stood waiting. 
“I say!” he exclaimed anxiously. “Your hair—your shoes—you’ll take a chill, Miss Moran!” 
“I feel anxious about Miss Moran myself,” said Dr. Quelton. “I’m afraid she’s a very imprudent young lady.” 
But Lexy said nothing. 
The doctor’s library had a charm of its own. It was a big room, careless, a little shabby, but furnished in fastidious taste and with a friendly sort of comfort. A great wood fire was blazing on the hearth, and Dr. Quelton drew up an armchair before it for Lexy. 
“There!” he said. “Now you’ll soon be warm and dry. Anna!” 
"Yeah. All we want is to hear a little talk of the town." He gazed out over the square, Uzi-toting police still strolling by. "You know, local information of the kind that doesn't make the papers." 
"Right," I said. "For starters, how could a gringa sort of melt into the Peten rain forest, disappear for months and months, and then end up in a coma?" I'd decided to feel him out before going for the bigger questions. 
"Well," I went on, determined to push him, "an old land­ing card for the person I'm looking for said her destination was a place called Ninos del Mundo, up in the Peten. I as­sume that's somewhere in the northern rain forest, right? So I guess what I want to know is, does that name stir up any connections?" 
He inhaled, taking his time. "Well, maybe I've heard a little something about a place some people call by that name." He drew again on the cigarette. "And the story might include a female American tourista or two—about one a year, actually—who've sort of melted into the forest never to be seen more. I'm not exactly sure where it is, though. Or even if what you hear is true. But who cares? Come on, guys, this is Guatemala, for chrissake. Shit happens. Get a life." 
Livejournallers love quizzes. What kind of hobbit are you? Are you a great lover? What planet are you most like? Which character from some movie are you? What's your emotional type? They fill them in and their friends fill them in and everyone compares their results. Harmless fun. 
The quizzes plotted the results on a map with colored pushpins for schools and neighborhoods, and made lame recommendations for places to buy pizza and stuff. 
But look at those questions. Think about my answers: Male, Chavez High, Potrero Hill. 
There were only two people in my whole school who matched that profile. Most schools it would be the same. If you wanted to figure out who the Xnetters were, you could use these quizzes to find them all. 
That was bad enough, but what was worse was what it implied: someone from the DHS was using the Xnet to get at us. The Xnet was compromised by the DHS. 
We had spies in our midst. 
I'd given Xnet discs to hundreds of people, and they'd done the same. I knew the people I gave the discs to pretty well. Some of them I knew very well. I've lived in the same house all my life and I've made hundreds and hundreds of friends over the years, from people who went to daycare with me to people I played soccer with, people who LARPed with me, people I met clubbing, people I knew from school. My ARG team were my closest friends, but there were plenty of people I knew and trusted enough to hand an Xnet disc to. 
Mrs. Cobb had been looking for this question all the evening and dreading some allusion to her favorite as gifted in prayer. She had taken an instantaneous and illogical dislike to the Rev. Mr. Burch in the afternoon because he called upon Rebecca to "lead." She had seen the pallor creep into the girl's face, the hunted look in her eyes, and the trembling of the lashes on her cheeks, and realized the ordeal through which she was passing. Her prejudice against the minister had relaxed under his genial talk and presence, but feeling that Mrs. Burch was about to tread on dangerous ground, she hastily asked her if one had to change cars many times going from Riverboro to Syria. She felt that it was not a particularly appropriate question, but it served her turn. 
Deacon Milliken, meantime, said to Miss Sawyer, "Mirandy, do you know who Rebecky reminds me of?" 
"I can guess pretty well," she replied. 
"Then you've noticed it too! I thought at first, seein' she favored her father so on the outside, that she was the same all through; but she ain't, she's like your father, Israel Sawyer." 
I sat up slowly and hugged her. She hugged me back. We kissed. She was an amazing kisser. I know I've already said that, but it bears repeating. We kissed a lot, but for one reason or another we always stopped before it got too heavy. 
Now I wanted to go farther. I found the hem of her t-shirt and tugged. She put her hands over her head and pulled back a few inches. I knew that she'd do that. I'd known since the night in the park. Maybe that's why we hadn't gone farther -- I knew I couldn't rely on her to back off, which scared me a little. 
But I wasn't scared then. The impending press-conference, the fights with my parents, the international attention, the sense that there was a movement that was careening around the city like a wild pinball -- it made my skin tingle and my blood sing. 
And she was beautiful, and smart, and clever and funny, and I was falling in love with her. 
Her shirt slid off, her arching her back to help me get it over her shoulders. She reached behind her and did something and her bra fell away. I stared goggle-eyed, motionless and breathless, and then she grabbed my shirt and pulled it over my head, grabbing me and pulling my bare chest to hers. 
“What the hell!” cried Finch. His nose was fountaining blood. It was getting all over his suit. 
“That’s for calling me ‘missy,’” I said. “Now, clearly you have some super string-pulling powers, so I’m not actually that worried about those police anymore. Like you said, that’s your mess now, with my thanks. What I am worried about is you thinking this is your game to run. It’s not. So I’ll thank you to talk to me like the heavily armed person I am.” 
Finch glared at me, trying to staunch his bleeding nose. 
Tresting touched my arm. “This gets us nowhere,” he murmured. 
“Maybe,” I said. “But it felt really good.” 
Tresting shook his head at me slightly, warning me back, and I felt a flare of resentment. He had no call to tell me how I ought to conduct myself. This wasn’t his game to run, either. 
“Everybody calm down,” Tresting said to the room. “One crisis at a time. Let’s find out what’s going on.” He pulled out his phone and hit a button; as soon as someone picked up, he said, “We’re at Kingsley’s place. Everything’s under control, but I’d like some intel.” There was a slight pause, and then the person on the other end swore copiously and creatively, loudly enough for all of us to hear over the speaker. Tresting winced and held the phone away from his ear a little. “I said everything’s under control,” he tried to insist over Checker’s tirade. He looked at the rest of us. “Be right back.” 
"What do you mean, 'help'?" 
"I'll explain if you'll give me a chance." He revolved and delivered some brusque orders in Kekchi Maya to the women, who nodded apologetically and began helping Sarah back onto the palanquin. After he admonished her in the same language, he then said...  Army privates, who gave him a firm salute, turned, and walked over to pick the palanquin up, to carry it for the women. The sense of authority he exuded reminded me of that first morning we met at Quetzal Manor. His eyes flashed from benign to demanding to benign in an instant. 
"No, damn it, alto !" I strode over, shoved the soldiers aside, and took her hand. "Sar, honey, don't you understand what's going on? Something terrible happened to you when you were here before. I'm so worried—" 
"But he says I need to stay, Morgy." She drew back. "It's best. He's helping me." 
As I watched the two privates carry her away, down the cobblestone pathway, AK-47's swung over their shoulders, I felt my helplessness become complete. The Army here was under his control, just like everything else. 
"That's good protocol analysis," I said. 
"Yeah," she said, and smiled with shy pride. "I don't think he expected me to be looking there." 
"What's he doing with his botnet? Preparing to crash the world? Hold it hostage?" 
She shook her head. "I think he's installing himself on them, trying to brute-force his way into a live and running backup, arrived at through random variation and pruning." 
"He's backing himself up in the wild," I said, my voice breathy. 
And that's when I remembered that I had a live phone in my pocket that was transmitting every word to BIGMAC. 
Understand: in that moment of satori, I realized that I was on the wrong side of this battle. BIGMAC wasn't using me to create a trust so that we could liberate him together. He was using me to weaken the immune systems of eight billion computers so that he could escape from the Institute and freely roam the world, with as much hardware as he needed to get as big and fast and hot as he wanted to be. 
That was the moment that I ceased to be sentimental about computers and became, instead, sentimental about the human fucking race. Whatever BIGMAC was becoming, it was weirder than any of the self-perpetuating, self-reproducing parasites we'd created: limited liability corporations, autonomous malware, viral videos. BIGMAC was cool and tragic in the lab, but he was scary as hell in the world. 
“But why?” Arthur sounded lost. 
I was, too, to be honest. “I have no idea, but I think we need to find out.” 
“We need to find Sonya,” said Arthur, pulling out his phone. 
“What am I going to do?” Zhang raised his powder-coated face to us, his voice barely above a whisper. “What have I done?” 
Arthur considered. “Your bosses, where they think you at?” 
“At work—I left myself swiped in—” 
“Oh, I’m sure they’re on their way,” I said. “We just happened to be closer. I’m guessing this place will be overrun with federal agents in about, oh, three minutes or so.” 
Zhang blinked rapidly, and a few more tears squeezed out of his eyes behind his glasses. “I thought I was—I was trying to do a good thing—the best thing—” 
“Shit,” Arthur said softly. I knew what he was thinking: Zhang would be ruined for this. Not just fired—arrested. Thrown in prison for a long, long time. 
I wasn’t sure that should bother us, frankly. 
Except...I knew it would bother Halliday. And the way Arthur was looking down at Zhang with an intense, arresting sort of expression said he was about to go into full-on savior mode. 
“Hey, I told you about the GPS.” 
“You didn’t tell me; I guessed. And considering you were using it to track me, I think it was about time I knew.” 
“Whatever,” he muttered. “In for a penny, I guess. Pithica’s some government project or other.” 
“I know that. What else?” 
He cut his eyes at me suspiciously. 
“I did some digging after you mentioned it while pointing a gun barrel at my face,” I explained impatiently. “What else?” 
“It’s buried deep. I got a tech guy. He can only find bits and pieces. But it’s far-reaching. My client’s husband, he was a journalist. Started digging into some things. Political decisions, that sort of stuff, ones that didn’t make sense. Nutso crime spikes. Chances are they could’ve left him alive; I don’t think he ever saw the connection.” 
“What connection?” 
“Pithica. Just the word. Buried deep. Didn’t find it linked up to all the things he been looking at, but it was enough to be, uh, a ‘statistically significant correlation.’ Or so say my tech guy.” 
His tech guy must be good. Anton had been able to find almost nothing. “And you think Pithica killed him. The journalist.” 
“Oh, golly!” she cried. “I’m so glad you’ve come, Mr. Houseman!” 
“So am I!” he said. “Ever since I got that last letter from you—” 
“Last! I only wrote one.” 
“Well, I got two,” he told her. “The second one came yesterday, about this doctor, and the roses, you know.” 
“Mrs. Royce must have posted it!” said Lexy. “I wrote it, but I didn’t mean it to be sent to you unless something happened to me.” 
“Enough has happened to you already!” 
“More things are going to happen,” said she. “Lots more!” 
It suddenly occurred to her that the proper moment had come for withdrawing her hands from Mr. Houseman’s firm grasp. Indeed, she thought the proper moment might already have passed, and a warm color came into her cheeks. 
The young man flushed a little himself. 
“I didn’t mean to call you that,” he said; “but Caroline used to write a lot about you, and she always called you ‘Lexy,’ so I got into the way of thinking of you—like that.” 
“I don’t mind,” Lexy conceded. 
There was a moment’s silence. 
“See?” I said in a fierce whisper. “Everybody sees a picture like that? He’s guilty. Automatically.” 
“I didn’t mean he’s actually guilty. Not Wilson. He would never hurt anybody. But look at all those police.” 
“And federal agents.” I enlarged the image and pointed out the pony-tail woman with the hat. 
Monica made another squeak. “Oh my God. FBI? What did he do?” 
“Nothing!” I stomped away. Stomp stomp stomp. Then, right on schedule, thump thump thump. A broom handle being banged against the ceiling downstairs to tell us to keep it down. I made my wild Medusa face at the floor, took off the stupid hat and my coat, 
then sat on the floor to pull off my boots. I figured I might have to do more stomping yet tonight, but it would be quieter in my socks. As much as I hated it when Monica reminded me to keep it down, we really couldn’t afford to piss off the downstairs neigh- bors. The apartment we were in, the attic floor of an old house, 
wasn’t actually a legal rental property, but it was the nicest place we’d lived in a long time, and the cheapest. We couldn’t afford to get thrown out. 
Even though he was doing a casual number with me, my first impression of Alex Goddard was that he perfectly em­bodied all those qualities. I also sensed a false note. What was it? Maybe he was being just a little too casual. 
"If you're here about doing a film," he began, "please be aware we do not encourage publicity. If you've come because of your infertility, as Ramala said you mentioned in your call, then I welcome you with open arms." 
Well, he knew how to cut to the chase. And after his phone call to try to intimidate Paula Marks, I was well aware he didn't "encourage publicity." But now I also realized he wouldn't be overly interested in my new idea of someday doing a documentary on this place. But then a lot of people say no at first and then come around. 
"I was actually interested in neither," I said, feeling my sinuses about to close down permanently. "I was actually hoping to find out about your adoption service, how it works." 
"Ah," he said, his eyes shifting from intense scrutiny to somewhere lost in the ozone, "that's not something I handle personally. In any case, you first must come and participate in our program. Then, if we fail to achieve your objectives, we can take the adoption matter under consideration." 
The countryman came a step nearer. 
“I keep thinking about it,” he said in a half whisper. “This is the queer thing about it, miss. That there car didn’t start till I got to the foot of the hill ! The engine was just racing, and the car wasn’t moving along—I know that. It was as if he’d been waiting up there for me, and then down he came as if he meant”—the speaker paused again—“to kill me,” he ended. 
“But—” Lexy began, and then stopped. 
She had a very odd feeling that this story was somehow of great importance to her, but that she must put it away, that she must keep it in her mind until later. This wasn’t the time to think about it. 
“Joe,” she said, “I want to hear more about this—all about it; but not now. I’m too tired.” 
He gave himself a shake, like a dog. Then he turned to her with a slow, good-natured smile. 
“I guess you are!” he said. “Lucky for you I just happened to be late to-night, taking them Ainsly girls ’way out to their house after a dance. Hop in, miss!” 
Lexy got in, and they set off. She leaned back and closed her eyes, but they flew open again as if of their own accord. There was something she wanted to see. Through the glass she could see Joe’s burly shoulders, a little hunched—Joe, who, like herself, wasn’t sure. 
“Guys, everything’s fried!” came Checker’s panicked voice. “They must have hit us with an EMP; it’s the only thing that could’ve—” 
“That’s what Rio said!” I interrupted. “Somebody start explaining now!” 
“EMP,” said Checker. “Electromagnetic pulse, it’ll fry any electronics in the radius—” 
“I know that,” I cut in. “I’m not an idiot. Skip to the ‘how’ part.” 
“High-altitude nuclear detonation is probably the easiest way,” said Checker. 
I felt dazed. “Easiest?” 
“Clearly you’re not up on your right-wing nut job blogs,” said Checker. “One high-altitude nuke could take out all the electronics in the United States. The good news is, no loss to human life, except of course for all of the countless people who are depending on medical electronics to keep them kicking—” 
“Cars,” I said. “What about cars?” 
“I don’t—I don’t know. Most cars are computerized these days—older ones might have a better chance? I don’t know—” 
“We need to get out of the radius,” I said. “Checker, you’ve been backing up in the cloud, right? If we can get to a place that’s not fried, will the network be—” 
Zhang did tell us there was already a mostly-behind-the-scenes revamping of computer security going on across the country. Halliday jumped in on helping with the tail end of it, making sure the concepts in her proof couldn’t be used against it in the same fashion, and with giddy relief—well, what passed for giddy with her—seemed to be confident the crisis was averted. All vital national security concerns had quietly swapped encryption protocols with impressive speed, and anything that could lead to drastic economic consequences was slowly being switched over as well. Whoever had the proof would still have a lot of power once they deciphered it, but the NSA had at least averted the apocalypse. Probably. 
Amusingly, the authorities switched from factorization of semiprimes to using Halliday’s own work on encryption via prime roots of unity. I supposed it wasn’t that ironic for her own work to have come out on top, considering how few people there were in her field. There were whispers in security circles wondering about all the changes, Zhang told us, but the NSA had managed to keep them tamped down enough that the mainstream news media hadn’t picked anything up yet, and people tended not to listen to conspiracy theorists. Even when they were right. 
“It’s Cas.” 
“Cas! Are you okay? Arthur said—” 
“I’m fine,” I cut in. “Arthur gave you the lowdown on what’s going on?” 
“Uh, yeah. And holy crap. I’m buying gold as we speak.” 
“Hopefully it won’t get that far. Have you found anything?” 
“A little,” he answered. “The professor’s home and work computers were both woefully insecure, despite the fact that she works in cryptography—shocking, I tell you. I read through all her recent communications—” 
Arthur made an uncomfortable noise. 
“Was that Arthur?” 
“Yeah, you’re on speaker,” I said apologetically. 
“Right,” said Checker. “Uh. Sorry, Arthur—we need the intel, right?” 
“Find anything?” said Arthur unhappily. 
“Aside from the fact that I’m pretty sure whoever stole her notes cloned her hard drives, because it would be easy so why not do it, yes, I did. First of all, the note she showed you guys was emailed to her first, probably right after the robbery.” 
“She didn’t mention that,” I said. 
“Because she didn’t see it. It went to spam. That’s probably why she didn’t get the note until the next day.” 
There was no message, just a sheet with a date—two years old—and a list of names accompanied by numbers and a capital letter. Then I noticed the letterhead of Aviateca, the Guatemalan national airline, and it dawned on me I was look­ing at a flight manifest. 
I scanned down the page, and then I saw it. 
Sarah Crenshaw, 3B. 
Williams found her, I thought. And she was traveling First Class. 
What caught my eye next was the name of the person sitting in 3A, the seat right next to hers. A. Godford. Probably a computer misprint. Or maybe it was the name he used when he traveled. So if it was him, which it surely was, the bastard didn't even try to hide it. 
I just stood there, thinking. Maybe you get one big-time coincidence in life, and if so, this must be mine. Sarah and I had both found Alex Goddard. Or he'd found us. Other women came and went through Quetzal Manor, but we were different. She'd escaped from him, half dead but now he'd sent Ramos to bring her back. It was the one way he could be sure to keep me under his control. But again, why? Was it just to stop my film, or was there more to the story? 
“Can we look?” 
“Sure.” 
Sarah gave me thumbs-up as we followed Marita out of the kitchen. 
It almost went as planned. 
S ara strung an extension cord into the unused corridor, 
which was in the darkest part of the room and just big enough for her and her equipment. She enlarged a hole in the raggedy curtain and checked to be sure she could shoot the room without being seen. Marita and I moved furniture around, with Sarah calling out instructions through the curtain. “You’re off cam- era. Can you move that chair to the right a couple of feet? Zen, 
we’ll want plenty of light on the face of whoever the FBI sends. 
Angle that couch so . . . that’s good.” Sarahh tested the livestream; she was sending the film to Zeke and Nikko at the hotel using a portable hotspot so that there would be an offsite copy if her cam- era was confiscated. 
Once everything was in place, I made a...  sharpen my brain before the show. When I checked the time on my phone, I remembered that picture I’d taken of Simon. The wall I’d built to keep it in a dark corner of my brain crumbled for a moment, but even though it made me feel a little sick and shaky, I was glad because I realized there was a good chance I would get arrested. I quickly composed an email to Char- lie from my Secret Avenger account, warning her the photo I had attached could be triggering, but Simon had been unmasked and his days of attacking women were over. 
"Johanna has something to tell you," Peyton said. 
Johanna sat down and scrubbed at her eyes with her fists. "First thing I did was go out and buy some off-the-shelf IDSes and a beam-splitter. I tapped into BIGMAC's fiber at a blind-spot in the CCTV coverage zone, just in case he was watching. Been wire-tapping him ever since." 
I nodded. "Smart." 
"Second thing I did was start to do some hardcore analysis of that patchkit he wrote --" I held my hand up automatically to preserve the fiction that I'd written it, but she just glared at me. "That he wrote. And I discovered that there's a subtle error in it, a buffer overflow in the networking module that allows for arbitrary code execution." 
I swallowed. BIGMAC had loaded a backdoor into his patchkit, and we'd installed it on the better part of 14 billion CPUs. 
"Has anyone exploited this bug yet?" 
She gave me a condescending look. 
"How many systems has he compromised?" 
"About eight billion, we think. He's designated a million to act as redundant command servers, and he's got about ten thousand lieutenant systems he uses to diffuse messages to the million." 
Robbie didn’t say anything. The human thought he was a human too. It would have been weird and degrading to let him know that he’d been talking with an AI. 
“Thanks for your help,” Robbie said. 
“No problem. Hope you find your courage, tin-man.” 
Robbie burned with shame as the connection dropped. The human had known all along. He just hadn’t said anything. Something Robbie had said or done must have exposed him for an AI. Robbie loved and respected humans, but there were times when he didn’t like them very much. 
The newsgroup was easy to find, there were mirrors of it all over the place from cryptosentience hackers of every conceivable topology. They were busy, too. 822 messages poured in while Robbie watched over a timed, 60-second interval. Robbie set up a mirror of the newsgroup and began to download it. At that speed, he wasn’t really planning on reading it as much as analyzing it for major trends, plot-points, flame-wars, personalities, schisms, and spam-trends. There were a lot of libraries for doing this, though it had been ages since Robbie had played with them. 
“I feel anxious about Miss Moran myself,” said Dr. Quelton. “I’m afraid she’s a very imprudent young lady.” 
But Lexy said nothing. 
The doctor’s library had a charm of its own. It was a big room, careless, a little shabby, but furnished in fastidious taste and with a friendly sort of comfort. A great wood fire was blazing on the hearth, and Dr. Quelton drew up an armchair before it for Lexy. 
“There!” he said. “Now you’ll soon be warm and dry. Anna!” 
“Yes, sir!” the parlor maid responded from the doorway. 
“Please tell Mrs. Quelton that Miss Moran is here.” 
“Yes, sir!” repeated the maid, and disappeared. 
Lexy sat down. Captain Grey stood, facing her, leaning one elbow on the mantelpiece. Dr. Quelton paced up and down, his hands clasped behind him. He looked like a dignified middle-aged gentleman in his own home. 
A door opened somewhere in the house, and for a moment Lexy heard the homely and...  and a cheerful Irish voice inquiring about “them potaters.” It was surely a cheerful and pleasant enough setting; but Lexy did not find it so. 
“Danny around?” the skinny one with the backpack asked. He remembered to smile, but he was staring at me, like “what are you doing here?” 
“Still in bed,” Marita said shakily. “He told me he was expect- ing some people at noon.” 
“Guess we got our wires crossed. Cute baby.” 
“Would you get in here and close the door, already?” she said, 
snapping into character. “You’re letting the cold in. I don’t want the kid to get another earache.” 
They filed in and shut the door behind them. The two men pulled their caps off, as if politeness was drilled into them even though they were disguised as dangerous dissidents. “And you are . . .” The skinny guy who looked like a student knew who I was, 
but he pretended he didn’t. 
“I’m Zen. My brother is one of the Minneapolis Nine. I’m here for the meeting, too.” 
No, you’re not, Big Guy’s face said as he glared at me. 
“Neat house,” Skinny said to Marita. “It’s famous,” he told his comrade. “Lot of bands have been through here. Who’s staying here these days?” 
"Those ova of mine you took, the way you stole Sarah's, and all the other women you've brought here—you don't use them for research." 
"I have ample leftover embryonic material here for that." He started helping me onto the bed next to Steve. Now his face was undulating through my vision, as though I were seeing it in a wavy mirror. "Please understand, it's very ex­pensive to run a laboratory up here. But the good I'm do­ing—" 
"You're a criminal." I remembered the frightened eyes of the women upstairs and felt myself seething with anger. 
"No! I am, in my special way, giving them back a small part of what they had taken away by people exactly like us. I'm providing them proof, living proof, their truths are still powerful." 
He strolled over to the window and looked out. "The women come to me for my blessing whenever they hope to bear a child. They know that if they wish, I can cause their first child to be a descendant of their white deity Kukulkan. For them it is a sacred event." 
"They believe that?" It was sickening. I felt a knot grow­ing in my stomach, even as my hallucinations flashed ever bolder, bright rainbows that flitted about the room, then wound themselves around me. 
Steve’s men. This could have been them again. Or Pithica. Or both. 
“Did I do this?” mumbled Arthur. “Did I?” 
“I don’t know,” I said. 
Orphaned adapters and Ethernet connectors told us Checker had kept no shortage of computers in the house, either, but everything from laptops and tablets to ebook readers had been swept up and taken. I wandered into the living room. A flat screen TV dangled crookedly on the wall where it had been knocked askew, and a snowdrift of papers from an emptied file cabinet made half a mummy of a guitar on a stand. It looked like Checker had had a pleasant place, before he’d been abducted. 
“Russell,” Arthur called. 
I found him in the washroom, frowning at the sink. “What is it?” I asked. 
“Toothbrush,” he said. “Toothbrush and toothpaste are missing.” 
“So?” 
“Seem weird to you? Kidnappers or killers, and they take him a toothbrush?” 
I mulled it over. It did seem weird. 
“My God,” said Arthur suddenly. He pushed back out of the washroom, dashed to the front door, and flung it open to dive out onto the porch, his head swiveling from side to side as if he were trying to see in all directions at once. 
“Oh, man,” the kid said. “Ada was the ExcuseClub leak, damn. I shoulda guessed.” 
“How do you know my daughter, Liam?” 
“She’s good at doing grown-up voices. She was a good part of the network. When someone needed a mom or a social worker to call in an excuse, she was always one of the best. Talented. She goes to school with my kid sister and I met them one day at the Peanut Plaza and she was doing this impression of her teachers and I knew I had to get her on the network.” 
Ada hanging around the plaza after school—she was supposed to come straight home. Why didn’t he wiretap her more? “You built the network?” 
“It’s cooperative, it’s cool—it’s a bunch of us cooperating. We’ve got nodes everywhere now. You can’t shut it down—even if you shut down my node, it’ll be back up again in an hour. Someone else will bring it up.” 
He shoved the kid back down and stood over him. “Liam, I want you to understand something. My precious daughter is missing and she went missing after using your service to help her get away. She is the only thing in my life that I care about and I am a highly trained, heavily armed man. I am also very, very upset. Cap—understand me, Liam?” 
"Maybe she's right. Not that you need protection, of course, but just that there are some things it's better not to know. You always hear people say that imagining is worse than the reality, no matter how horrible the truth might be. It's been my experience that the only people who say that are folks who have never seen anything truly horrible." 
This concession seems to be enough. Emma blinks the anger out of her gaze. "You've seen terrible things before, haven't you? You've been a soldier." 
"What makes you say that?" 
"You talk like a Marine."  Without thinking, Ray winks. "You've known many Marines, Miss Whiston?" 
"I have a Terran cousin with whom I'm very close who happens to be a career Marine, Mr. Marlowe," she replies archly. 
Ray smiles softly. "I guess that's better than saying I remind you of your crusty old uncle or something. Yes, 
Emma, I was a Marine. Or I am a Marine. They don't actually let us retire, you know. They just put us on indefinite hiatus." 
"And you served bravely in the desert, yes? Like all the other good Midwestern boys?" 
“I’ll go wake up his majesty, then,” the woman said. “Just sit yourself down.” 
Valentine sat perched on the edge of the grand divan that twisted and curved along one wall of the sitting room. She knew that the seat of her trousers—filthy even before her tussle with the zombie—would leave black marks on its brave red upholstery. 
The conversation from down the corridor was muffled but the tone was angry. Valentine felt her cheeks go hot, even through the fever. This place was still civilized and she’d brought the war to it. 
Then the wizard came into the sitting room and waved the lights up to full bright, wincing away from the sudden illumination. He squinted at her. 
“Do I know you?” he said. 
Her tongue caught in her mouth. In his pajamas with his hair mussed, he still looked every inch the wizard. 
“I;” She couldn’t finish. “I—” She tried again. “You gave me clothes. My mother is a soldier.” 
He snapped his fingers and grinned. “Oh, the soldier’s daughter . I remember you now. You counted the toothbrushes. You’re a bright girl.” 
“Something,” Felix said. “We’re going to do something. Something is better than nothing. We’re going to take this patch of the world where people are talking to each other, and we’re going to expand it. We’re going to find everyone we can and we’re going to take care of them and they’re going to take care of us. We’ll probably fuck it up. We’ll probably fail. I’d rather fail than give up, though.” 
Van laughed. “Felix, you are crazier than Sario, you know it?” 
“We’re going to go and drag him out, first thing tomorrow. He’s going to be a part of this, too. Everyone will. Screw the end of the world. The world doesn’t end. Humans aren’t the kind of things that have endings.” 
Rosa shook her head again, but she was smiling a little now. “And you’ll be what, the Pope-Emperor of the World?” 
“He prefers Prime Minister,” Van said in a stagey whisper. The anti-histamines had worked miracles on his skin, and it had faded from angry red to a fine pink. 
“You want to be Minister of Health, Rosa?” he said. 
"I just wanted to, like, be with you." She'd done her dark hair in multiple braids, with a red glass bead at the end of each. "You're special. We all know it. That's why he brought you over here, to this building. To be near them." 
"What do you mean, 'special'?" I asked, heading for the closet and my black jeans. Then I wondered. Near who? 
Now she was reaching into a fanny pack she had around her waist and taking out a baggie filled with plastic vials. "These are herbs I've started growing here. I picked them for you. If you'll—" 
"Slow down," I said, lifting my jeans off the hanger and starting to struggle into them. Finally I took the baggie, moved to the window, and tilted up the blind. Inside it were clear plastic medicine bottles containing various gray and green powders and flakes. 
My God, what's she trying to give me? And why? 
"Listen," she went on, insistent. "Take those. Put two teaspoons of each in water you've boiled and drink it. Every day for a week. They'll make you strong. Then you'll be—" 
"You can pick them up when you've logged out for the night. I'll leave them sitting on my desk." 
The conversation over, Ziggy wanders back into his office and closes the door so he can maintain the illusion that he's about to be obeyed. Ray watches him go, contemplating the door for several seconds in silence. 
Ray winks at the rat. "Lunch, you say? Sure, let's go."   The first thing everyone learns about Paraclete is that there is no actual, locate-able, stroll through-able, 
smell-the-flower variety garden on the Garden Level. There are no hydroponic growth vats, no specialized lighting, no actual fauna which might be even vaguely confused with explosions of greenery and/or vegetable caliber edibles. 
This somewhat flagrant misnomer might be considered an obscene breach of language usage if one neglected to take into account two critical facts: first, that the ship's schematics actually labeled it as Gamma Level, since it happened to fit comfortably between Beta Level and Delta Level; and second, that Gamma Level was the primary repository of paying passengers— folks who either should not be expected to carry a working knowledge of the Greek alphabet in their neural networks, or who considered such a sterile reference system to be vaguely chilling and gauche and hopelessly neo-militaristic. 
He shot me an expression of thinly veiled disgust. “Good news is they ain’t ID’d us, just got composites from the lobby guy at the building.” He turned to Leena. “Doc...” 
“I told your new friend already, I won’t tell anyone anything.” She sounded exhausted. “Just make this go away, please.” 
He hesitated, then nodded. I supposed there wasn’t much else he could do but trust her. “Guess we better get while the getting’s good,” he said to Finch and me. “They going to find out you’re not a real FBI agent and come back?” 
It was Tresting’s turn to get a baleful glare. 
“I’ll take that as a ‘maybe,’” the PI said, unperturbed. He reached out and touched Leena on the shoulder. “Doc. If you need anything, anything at all, or if anything starts to seem...I don’t know, strange, or something frightens you—you call me, okay?” 
She appeared to pull herself together slightly. “I...thank you. For sticking with me as long as you did. Maybe you can relax now, too.” 
Fat chance of that, I thought. Tresting was never going to give up this case, whether he had an active client or not. He looked like he wanted to say something else to Leena Kingsley, but finally he just nodded at her once before moving away. He checked out the window to make sure the coast was clear and then pulled open the front door. 
“Ye—yes.” Kingsley inched closer to Tresting, her posture tense as she regarded my tableau with Finch. “You think he isn’t who he says?” 
“Possible,” said Tresting neutrally, looking at me. 
“I assure you, I am with the Federal Bureau of Investigation,” Finch repeated, much more tranquil than I wanted him to be. “Now if you’ll put down the weapon, I’m sure we can sort this out.” 
“Courtney Polk,” I cut in. “Skinny kid, frizzy hair. What do you know about her?” 
“Nothing,” said Finch, with a poker face I would have killed for. 
I smiled slowly. “Oh, see? You just lied to me. That’s a bad idea.” 
“I’m not lying,” said Finch guilelessly. “I have no idea what you’re talking about.” 
“Miss Polk killed this woman’s husband,” Tresting said, tilting his head at Leena. “You got any information at all about her, this ain’t the time to withhold it.” 
“That’s true,” I said. “You don’t have to worry about me making holes in you; Dr. Kingsley’ll put your head through a wall.” 
“I, uh...” said Kingsley miserably, and trailed off. 
“That sounds sweet. You just download it?” 
“Yeah. It’s T-A-I-L-S. Just DuckDuckGo it.” 
She gave me a gotcha grin, letting me know she caught my sar- casm. “Sounds good. Say, have you heard of PSEO?” 
“That thing where you can go to college while you’re in high school?” 
“Great way to earn a lot of credits for free. You should apply.” 
“You have to be sixteen. They won’t take me until after my next birthday.” 
“Oh, I thought you were older. Watch out for deadlines, any- way. You have to apply, like, months and months before the semester starts. I could have gone in my junior year, but I didn’t find out about it until it was too late.” 
“Say, would you buy some stuff for me?” I dug the wad of cash out of my pocket. 
“Cigarettes?” She looked like she was trying to find a way to say no without pissing me off. 
“Food. For Wheeze. He’ll be hungry and once we find him, if we find him, it’ll be too risky to stop.” 
“We’ll find him,” she said, like she was powerful enough to make a promise that I knew she couldn’t keep. 
Google thought he was a conservative Christian Republican who supported the War on Terror and many other abstract nouns. 
He logged out of Google -- that was simple. Five minutes later, he logged in again. His entire address book was in there. He logged out again. Logged back in. His calendar -- when was his parents' anniversary again? Logged out. Logged back in. Needed his bookmarked locations in Maps. Logged out. 
He stopped trying. Google was where his friendships lived -- all those people he stayed connected to on Orkut. It was where his relationships lived: all that archived email, all those addresses in his address-book. It was his family photos, his bookmarks. Hell, his search history -- his real search history -- was like an outboard brain, remembering which parts of the unplumbable Internet he cared about, so that he didn't have to remember it the hard way, with the meat in his skull. 
Google had a copy of him -- all the parts of him that navigated the world and the people in it. Google owned that copy, and without it, he couldn't be himself anymore. He'd just have to stay logged in. 
The organizers were a well-known literacy charity that ran kids' writing workshops, drama workshops and so on. They had been running the games for ten years without incident. Everything was strictly booze- and drug-free, to keep the organizers from getting busted on some kind of corruption of minors rap. We'd draw between ten and a hundred players, depending on the weekend, and for the cost of a couple movies, you could have two and a half days' worth of solid fun. 
One day, though, they lucked into a block of rooms at the Monaco, a hotel in the Tenderloin that catered to arty older tourists, the kind of place where every room...  the lobby was full of beautiful old people in fine clothes, showing off their plastic surgery results. 
Normally, the mundanes -- our word for non-players -- just ignored us, figuring that we were skylarking kids. But that weekend there happened to be an editor for an Italian travel magazine staying, and he took an interest in things. He cornered me as I skulked in the lobby, hoping to spot the clan-master of my rivals and swoop in on him and draw his blood. I was standing against the wall with my arms folded over my chest, being invisible, when he came up to me and asked me, in accented English, what me and my friends were doing in the hotel that weekend? 
"You have some?" 
"I can make some. I'll need to talk to some lab-techs and download some of my research first." 
"Will you take it with me?" 
He didn't hesitate. "Never." 
"I'll take it," Viktor said, and hung up. 
Ria took his hand again. Leaned forward. Gave him a dry, firm kiss on the mouth. Leaned back. 
"Thank you," she said. 
"Don't thank me," he said. "I'm not doing you any favors." 
She stood up, pulling him to his feet. 
"Welcome to the team," she said. "Welcome to Viktor." 
The doomed rogue AI is called BIGMAC and he is my responsibility. Not my responsibility as in "I am the creator of BIGMAC, responsible for his existence on this planet." That honor belongs to the long-departed Dr Shannon, one of the shining lights of the once great Sun-Oracle Institute for Advanced Studies, and he had been dead for years before I even started here as a lowly sysadmin. 
No, BIGMAC is my responsibility as in, "I, Odell Vyphus, am the systems administrator responsible for his care, feeding and eventual euthanizing." Truth be told, I'd rather be Dr Shannon (except for the being dead part). I may be a lowly grunt, but I'm smart enough to know that being the Man Who Gave The World AI is better than being The Kid Who Killed It. 
“Of course,” I said. My voice was scratching. “Though I left the street on fire. Have the cops found it yet?” 
“You left the street— what—” 
“It wasn’t my fault,” I said. “They brought napalm. Or something napalm-like. Has someone called it in yet?” 
“Checking,” he said. “Aw, Arthur would be proud, you bringing in the authorities. This time of year LA’s a tinderbox; it’s not a bad idea.” 
That hadn’t been what I meant, but I didn’t correct him. “It’s just north of the 263, off the Puesta del Sol exit.” 
“Found it. Yeah, we’ve got fire department. And police, and...” He trailed off, a frown in the last words. 
“What?” 
“From what I can tell, the cops are being superseded by someone else. I can’t see who.” 
“NSA?” 
“I don’t know. Who attacked you? Who were these guys?” 
“The same ones who ran Arthur and me off the road, I’m assuming,” I said. I finished my rudimentary first-aid, leaned back, and flexed my hand against the bandaging. Painful, but I had my whole range of motion. 
“Did you get their pictures for me? License plate numbers?” 
“The timing,” said Arthur. “You think the NSA stole her proof?” 
“I think the NSA is probably listening in on this conversation, but I don’t think they’d try to run you off the road with military hardware,” said Checker. “No, I think someone else read that email and drew the right conclusion. She wasn’t talking about this proof to anyone else, right? So how did the thieves know about it? As sexy as higher math can be, somehow I doubt they were randomly spying on a theoretical mathematician just in case she discovered something with applications.” 
“We should talk to her NSA friend,” said Arthur. 
“How do we do that without giving Halliday away?” I asked. 
“Good point,” said Arthur. “I’ll think about it. Meantime, can you do a deep background on the friend?” he asked Checker. “And find out who might’ve had access to Sonya’s emails?” 
“Already on it.” 
“Hey, Checker,” I said, “If you had her proof—how long would it take you to make it start working for you?” 
“You mean, how long to code it into an algorithm?” Checker ruminated for a few seconds. “Oh, geez. Um...it sounds like it’s pretty long, so even if I managed to understand it—and there’s also the issue of figuring out the best way to attack—I’d say weeks, at least. Maybe longer.” 
"My sister don't believe in flattering children," hastily interpolated Jane, glancing toward Mrs. Burch, who seemed somewhat shocked, and was about to open her lips to ask if Rebecca was not a "professor." 
Mrs. Cobb had been looking for this question all the evening and dreading some allusion to her favorite as gifted in prayer. She had taken an instantaneous and illogical dislike to the Rev. Mr. Burch in the afternoon because he called upon Rebecca to "lead." She had seen the pallor creep into the girl's face, the hunted look in her eyes, and the trembling of the lashes on her cheeks, and realized the ordeal through which she was passing. Her prejudice against the minister had relaxed under his genial talk and presence, but feeling that Mrs. Burch was about to tread on dangerous ground, she hastily asked her if one had to change cars many times going from Riverboro to Syria. She felt that it was not a particularly appropriate question, but it served her turn. 
Deacon Milliken, meantime, said to Miss Sawyer, "Mirandy, do you know who Rebecky reminds me of?" 
"The Snow-White is probably the most remarkable laundry soap ever manufactured. Immerse the garments in a tub, lightly rubbing the more soiled portions with the soap; leave them submerged in water from sunset to sunrise, and then the youngest baby can wash them without the slightest effort." 
"BABE, not baby," corrected Rebecca from the circular. 
"It's just the same thing," argued Emma Jane. 
"Of course it's just the same THING; but a baby has got to be called babe or infant in a circular, the same as it is in poetry! Would you rather say infant?" 
"No," grumbled Emma Jane; "infant is worse even than babe. Rebecca, do you think we'd better do as the circular says, and let Elijah or Elisha try the soap before we begin selling?" 
"I can't imagine a babe doing a family wash with ANY soap," answered Rebecca; "but it must be true or they would never dare to print it, so don't let's bother. Oh! won't it be the greatest fun, Emma Jane? At some of the houses—where they can't possibly know me—I shan't be frightened, and I shall reel off the whole rigmarole, invalid, babe, and all. Perhaps I shall say even the last sentence, if I can remember it: 'We sound every chord in the great mac-ro-cosm of satisfaction." 
"What—?" I took him before I realized what I was doing. 
As I cradled him, gazing down at his tender little face, I realized he truly was Sarah all over again. And I was so glad she couldn't see him. Never, I thought, she must never, ever know. 
I finally forced myself to place him back into Marcelina's arms. 
"You've got no idea how much I want him, but I can't. Let one of these women...  for her own child." 
For that wrenching moment I'd held the very baby my heart longed for. But he was the last one on earth I could have. Just go, take Sarah and find Steve and go as far from Baalum as you can, before you lose your compass and do something terribly selfish. 
"Marcelina," I said, reaching to hug her, "tell them these 'sacred' children are all from his medico . Look up 'in vitro' in your dictionary. That's all it is." 
She hugged me back, though I wasn't sure whether she understood. Then I asked her to take Sarah's hand for a mo­ment while I went back up the steps to the platform. I felt a primal anger as I took one last look at the women Alex Goddard had wronged, now clustered around the body of Tz'ac Tzotz's mother. Then I bade them a silent farewell, turned, and walked, holding my tears, back through the stone room. 
“Drop your weapon!” yelled the woman, apparently unable to react to both her partner’s imminent death and me. “Drop your weapon, or I will riddle you with holes! We’ll get the bomb squad in here—” 
“There isn’t time,” I said. “This place is going up in just under five minutes.” 
“Stop it!” cried the woman. “Turn it the fuck off, or you’re not getting out, either!” 
“What? It’s not my bomb!” I protested. “I told you, I’m not with these guys—it was rigged before I got here!” I turned slightly so I could see the partner. He still had his sidearm aimed vaguely in my direction, though now he kept glancing down at his feet, and sweat had popped out all over his pasty face. He was young. Not even thirty, I thought. The junior partner, maybe even a rookie. 
And he was standing on some sort of pressure plate. I scanned the tangle of wires and equipment and explosive material at his feet—I wasn’t sure, but as far as I could tell this was not only live, it was liable to go up if its unhappy victim so much as shifted his weight. 
"Carly, there's not much I can do about what's already happened, but I can try to keep you from getting into any more trouble. Why don't you call them in the morning and tell them you've yelled at me and rescinded your permission for Applecore to use the film? And say I've promised I won't. You've threatened to sue me or something. That should get you off the hook." 
"You really think so?" Her look brightened slightly. 
"Yes, it's me they're worried about, not you. I represent some threat to them, because of the film I'm making. Just bail out and you'll be okay." 
"Thanks. I did get the feeling that's all they really want." She took another drink of water. "But if they wanted to scare me, they're doing a hell of a good job." 
"Well, then, why not take Kevin and go away for a couple of weeks? On a vacation someplace? And while you're doing that, I'm going to have a one-on-one with Alex Goddard. I've got a little leverage now." 
She looked at me. "What . . . what are you going to do?" 
I couldn't tell her about my videotape of his baby cache without explaining a lot more about Children of Light than I thought she wanted to hear. 
She looked at me. "What . . . what are you going to do?" 
I couldn't tell her about my videotape of his baby cache without explaining a lot more about Children of Light than I thought she wanted to hear. 
"Don't you think the less you know the better?" I said, taking her hand. "I've caused you enough trouble already." 
"No, I caused myself trouble." She was getting up. "Can I use your bathroom?" 
"Sure." I pointed the way. 
While she was gone, I went to the kitchen and surveyed it, checking the cabinets. Again, the place was cleaner than it had been in ages. The look of it momentarily bucked me up. 
When Carly came back, she hugged me and then an­nounced she wanted to go check on Kevin. 
"I'll do what you said about calling them," she concluded, reaching for her bag. "I think you're right. That ought to get them off my case. At least for the moment. As for the long run—“ 
"Carly," I said, taking her hand again, "we'll get through this. Just trust me." 
We hugged one more time and then she was gone. I took the moment to double-lock the door, and then collapsed on the couch. What should be my next move? I closed my eyes and tried to review all the insidious things that had happened in the last twenty-four hours. The illegal drugs, the break-in and theft of my film, the suspicious nursery of Children of Light, the threats to Carly . . . 
“I’m game to try.” He leaned heavily on my shoulder and we started a semi-coordinated hobble across the pavement. 
As we limped away, my brain itched uncomfortably, as if I were forgetting something important. My mind reached, searched, trying to recall... 
Eh, I’d remember it eventually, whatever it was. 
It took forty-eight hours for most vital services to get restored in Southern California, and almost two weeks for Los Angeles to approach something akin to normal. Twenty-nine people died and hundreds were injured during the rioting; the number of people who died from the EMP knocking out medical devices was several times that. Whatever numbers game Pithica thought they were playing, they had a lot to do to make up for this one. 
And they wouldn’t be able to. At least not for a good while. We’d made sure of that. 
I still wasn’t sure whether we should be proud of what we’d done or not. I tried not to think about it too hard, and to remind myself every so often of what Pithica had done to people like Reginald and Leena Kingsley. And to Courtney Polk, the client I hadn’t been able to rescue in the end. 
Get out of here. Whether you're fantasizing or not, the thing to do is grab an unsuspecting cab and get going. 
I strolled toward the other end of the long row of concrete steps till I reached an area where cabs were parked, more drivers lurking in wait. They all looked the same way most cabbies in Third World lands look: shabby clothes, with beat-up cars, an expression in their eyes somewhere between ag­gression and desperation. 
Just pick one whose car looks like it might actually make it to downtown. 
I spotted a dark blue Chevy that seemed clean and well maintained, its driver young and full of male hormones as he beckoned me to his vehicle, all the while undressing me with his eyes. Yep, he was definitely my guy. 
I ambled by his car, acting as though I was ignoring the innuendos of his pitch. Then I bolted for the back door, opened it myself since he was too startled to help, threw in my carry-ons, piled in behind them, and yelled, "Let's go. Rapido." 
As we sped away, I realized his greatest surprise was that I hadn't raised the subject of price. At that point, it was the last thing on my mind. I looked back to see the two guys from the black Land Rover, together with two others, heading for a car that had been double-parked right in front. 
“Good-by?” repeated Mrs. Enderby, with a smile. “You think, then, never to see me again?” 
“No,” said Lexy. “I mean to see you again—when I have something to tell you; but just now I want to go back and pack up my things.” 
“And leave my house?” 
“Yes.” 
They were both silent for a moment. Then, to Lexy’s amazement, Mrs. Enderby laid a hand gently on the girl’s shoulder. 
“My child,” she said, “you think I am a very hard woman. Perhaps it is so; but, like you, I do what seems to me the right. Certainly it is better now that you should leave us; but not like this. You must have your lunch here, then you must return to the house and sleep there, all in the usual way. To-morrow you shall go.” She paused a moment. “You shall go, if you are still determined that you will not keep faith with me.” 
It was not a very difficult matter to touch Lexy’s heart. Whatever resentment she may have felt against Mrs. Enderby vanished now, lost in a sincere pity and respect; but she was firm in her purpose. 
“What kind of help?” 
She couldn’t say it. She had the new kind of zombiism and the soldier had explained it clearly—the cure for zombiism now was a bullet to the head. 
Then she knew what she must say. The chocolate helped. Her family would love chocolate. “I’m going away soon and my mother and brother won’t be able to take care of themselves. I need help to keep them safe once I go.” 
“Where are you going?” 
The drink made it hard to think, but that was balanced out by that precious and magical feeling of fullness in her belly. Her mind flew over all the possible answers. 
“I have found someone who’ll take me out of the city and to a safe place.” 
“Are there safe places?” Ana said. 
“Oh, Ana, you cynic,” the wizard said. “There are many, many safe places. The world is full of them. They are the exception, not the rule. Isn’t that why you’ve come here?” 
“We’re not talking about why I came here,” Ana said. She nodded back at Valentine and made a little scooting hand-gesture at her. Valentine couldn’t decide if she liked Ana, though Ana was very pretty. 
“Too much wine.” I giggled like a maniac, resisting the urge to yank my wrist out of his grasp. “Got to use the john again. I’ll be right back.” 
He pulled my hand close and gave my knuckles a romantic kiss, but his words sounded angry. “Don’t be long.” 
“I won’t!” My giggling threatened to get out of control as I hur- ried through the kitchen into the little bathroom. I locked myself on in and sat on the toilet, shaking. In the other room I heard his slurring sing-song voice, “Hey, getting lonely out here.” 
“Just a minute,” I called out, staring at the door. It was a flimsy little lock. I remembered how strong his hands had felt. One good pull and he would be able to yank it open. There was a window over the toilet, but it was tiny, much too small for me to climb through. 
I remembered to switch off the camera, finally, and looked around for a weapon. There was a can of Axe I could spray into his eyes. If I broke the spotty mirror over the sink, I might be able to pull out a shard to stab him with. I could probably find a knife in the kitchen but I was too scared to unlock the door. 
"What?" he says, and rolls back and forth beneath her to prod her on. 
"No one wanted a son like Frederick." She takes the hint, settles back into her steady rhythm. 
"Freddy seems like a fuck up." 
"It isn't that. Frederick is..." Slows again, maddening, "...different. Not completely— not like a Whiston, I guess. There's something lesser about him. He's a shameful drunk, you know. Everyone knows that. And when he isn't drunk, he's cruel." 
Concentrate. God, the things he endures for the job! "How so? Like mean? Enjoys hurting people?" 
She shakes her head, now only marginally occupied with their sex. "Not mean. Mean isn't the word for it. You know, they whisper in the streets that he hurts Emma. Not just bruises and scratches, but hurts her. In terrible ways. And there's nothing she can do to stop him. Mother says that's probably why she ran off to Stratiskaya Daransk. To get away from him and the things he made her do. " 
Kilgore swallows thickly, painfully. The start and stop and start again feels like a rusty nail driven into the end of his penis. "But if he could do things. ..things to his own sister, I mean. Don't people worry about the children? The orphans they bring in under the Trust?" 
"Right, bedtime. I understand." 
"You will show him out, Emma?" 
"Yes, Amah." 
Having been dismissed, they duck out into the hall, where they pass the children groaning their way off to bed, herded by tutors. John Robert and two or three of the others wave at Ray, wish him goodnight. None of them speak to Emma. 
At the door, he says, "You weren't kidding, were you? About the kids." 
"I told you. I never know what to do with them. And I think they're afraid of me. " 
"Or you're afraid of them." 
"Did you know that the younger ones, their noses run all the time."  "It's a good thing you're cute when you panic, otherwise they would more than likely eat you alive. They're barbarians." 
He's trying to make her laugh, but she isn't very interested. She is quite serious about her lack of domestic skill. 
"I'm just teasing you," he says. "As long as you can cook, I don't care what you think about children." 
"I can't cook, Ray." 
"Yikes. It's a good thing you're independently wealthy, then. You'd have a hard time finding a husband with that resume." He winks; she smiles. She's more fun to play with than a bunch of uber-kids anyway, even if she doesn't like Captain Shadow. "Maybe you can run the mining operation and Frederick can run the Trust. That way each of you get a piece of the family business." 
There were two of them, Minos and Thrash, made up to look like dapper Tac Sergeants and they buttonholed him in the PX where he was picking up some razor blades and scanning the magazine rack for this month's girlie mags. They tried the whole impressive we have a proposition for you from your government spiel, 
which he blew off with the argument that he'd already been propositioned by his government, and having been screwed more than his handful share of times, he was considering entertaining other offers at the moment. 
Bad pay, poor working conditions, lousy scenery and he had to pay for his own head jobs, thank you very much. Then they went to the life of excitement and adventure backup, sounding not unlike the recruitment videos the chubby draft sergeants paraded around Ray's Indiana high school right before graduation. (Pick your service before the service picks you!) Ray preferred backgammon and had just taken up origami, and he told them so. By the time the three of them had gotten themselves wedged into the narrow checkout aisle to watch Ray pay for his purchases, he suspected they were finally gearing up for the hard sell techniques. He more than suspected they were about to divulge that they were, in fact, officers of distinguished rank masquerading as NCO's for the singular purpose of screwing with him and/or testing his level of Marine dedication and/or they were actually about this close to ordering him to this devastatingly attractive new duty station whether he liked it or not. 
Brautigan looked back down at his toes. 
"You'd never seen him before this?" 
"It was a risk," he said. "I thought I could convince him, face to face." 
"But?" 
"I bombed. It was -- it was the -- it was everything . The compound. The people. All of it. It was like a city , a theme park . They lived there, hundreds of them, and managed every tiny piece of his empire. Like Royal Urchins." 
Leon puzzled over this. "Eunuchs?" 
"Royal Eunuchs. They had this whole culture, and as I got closer and closer to him, I realized, shit, they could just buy Ate. They could destroy us. They could have us made illegal, put us all in jail. Or get me elected president. Anything." 
"You were overawed." 
"That's the right word. It wasn't a castle or anything, either. It was just a place, a well-built collection of buildings. In Westchester, you know? It had been a little town center once. They'd preserved everything good, built more on top of it. It all just...worked. You're still new here. Haven't noticed." 
“There’s no visual record of her on the mall cameras, but we know she entered the mall—and the robot I had tailing you couldn’t see you either.” 
“Let me explain,” the kid said, squirming. “Here.” He tugged his hoodie off, revealing a black t-shirt with a picture of a kind of obscene, Japanese-looking robot-woman on it. “Little infra-red organic LEDs, super-bright, low power-draw.” He offered the hoodie to Arturo, who felt the stiff fabric. “The charged-couple-device cameras in the robots and the closed-circuit systems are super-sensitive to infra-red so that they can get good detail in dim light. The infra-red OLEDs blind them so all they get is blobs, and half the time even that gets error-corrected out, so you’re basically invisible.” 
Arturo sank to his hunkers and looked the kid in the eye. “You gave this illegal technology to my little girl so that she could be invisible to the police?” 
The kid held up his hands. “No, dude, no! I got it from her —traded it for access to ExcuseClub.” 
My grandfather remembered installing the systems that caused the Y2K problem. My dad remembered the birth of "meh." I remember the rise and fall of anyone caring about AI. Technology is glorious. 
"But OK, stipulate that you're right and lots of important things go blooie on January 19. You might not get accurate weather reports. The economy might bobble a little. Your transport might get stuck. Your pay might land in your bank a day late. And?" 
He had me there. "It would be terrible --" 
"You know what I think? I think you want it to be terrible. You want to live in the Important Epoch In Which It All Changes. You want to know that something significant happened on your watch. You don't want to live in one of those Unimportant Epochs In Which It All Stayed the Same and Nothing Much Happened. Being alive in the Epoch in Which AI Became Reality doesn't cut the mustard, apparently." 
I squirmed in my seat. That morning, my boss, Peyton Moldovan, had called me into her office -- a beautifully restored temporary habitat dating back to the big LA floods, when this whole plot of land had been a giant and notorious refugee camp. Sun-Oracle had gotten it for cheap and located its Institute there, on the promise that they preserve the hastily thrown-up structures where so many had despaired. I sat on a cushion on the smooth cement floor -- the structures had been delivered as double-walled bags full of cement mix, needing only to be "inflated" with high-pressure water to turn them into big, dome-shaped sterile cement yurts. 
he said, giving me a wink. 
I gave him a goofy grin, then yawned and closed my eyes, let- ting my head fall back, the empty glass tilted in my lap. “Hang on.” 
I sensed him leaning over me and willed myself to imitate a dead person. He nudged my shoulder and I snuffled and settled deeper into pretend sleep. “It’s okay. We can talk.” He stood and walked over to the front windows. I hoped he didn’t smell the wine I’d used to water his dead plant. 
“Tomorrow morning?” he murmured after listening to some- one at the other end. “Isn’t that rushing things? No, he’s ready, but . . .” He listened again, then said, forgetting to whisper, “Fine, fine. 
I’ll call him right now. Jeez.” 
I heard him moving around. Feeling a moment of panic, I opened my eyes a crack. He was patting his jeans pockets while swearing, then rummaged through his coat and pulled out his iPhone. “Hey, Danny. How’s it going? Listen, I talked to my guys. 
They want to meet up. How’s tomorrow morning for you?” He picked up his beer and wandered out of my view. “I know, but like I said, they’ve been looking for an ally with the right technical skills. There aren’t too many people like you, Danny, committed to social justice and with your specialized knowledge. The thing is, it’s got to happen now, while the Minneapolis Nine are still in the news. Your place? Awesome. I’ll let them know. Right, 
I'll need the two of you there to help put him at ease. You can start being vivacious first thing in the morning. " 
Kilgore and Rodriguez exchange a significant look, like they're trying to decide if it's appropriate to give a high five. Instead, they nod and troop back toward the bedroom. But at the corner, Rodriguez stops and peers at Ray. 
"One thing I've got to ask. The rat-you didn't name him after the ballplayer by any chance, did you?" 
Ray beams. "I think we're going to get along just fine, Mr. Rodriguez. Just fine, indeed."   So here's this deckhumper, Bobby Diggs. He's a wiry, thin-as-a-stick black man with an immense afro and eyes so wide and white they must glow in the dark. Ray keeps looking at him and thinking that there's no way he can have been a Marine at any time in his life. He doesn't have the mass for it. His fully loaded, official military issue rucksack would have doubled his body weight. Just attempting to lift his subby— just thinking about attempting to lift his subby-would probably have pulled his arms right out of his sockets. Unbelievable. 
Halberd. 
I picked up a bottle with a stylized drawing of an axe on the label. 
Halberd. Why had I just thought that? 
The word pinged me like a fragment of another forgotten dream, a half-buried shred of awareness. 
Halberd and Pithica, the memo had said, the one Anton had given me a lifetime ago. But no, something else—the word poked at me, itching, an irritating nub that wouldn’t go away, echoing against the edges of my mind. 
An echo in Dawna’s voice? Her image swam in my memory, standing tall above me, blurred in a thousand pixelated layers. Her hands on my face, reaching into my brain—I could hear her voice, but the words overlapped in a jumbled mass. 
Was I remembering something she had said while we were fighting? As she was shattering me? 
Fear clenched at me. I started digging through the mess in the flat for a scrap of paper, tossing bottles and food wrappers and dirty clothes to the side while I repeated the word in my head over and over, afraid it would fade away again before I snatched the chance to write it down. 
"Well," he said. He turned for the door. Stopped. She tensed. He turned back to her. "Trish," he said. 
"It's OK," she said. "It's OK. We just have religious differences, is all." 
She slipped past him and into her car, and left him standing in her driveway. As she asked the car to plot a route for her back to the Hill, she dug through her purse for a pocket-knife. At the next red light, she took her lapel and slashed at it, opening a rent in her shirt that reflected a little of what her heart was feeling. It made her feel a little better to do it. 
The tiny multinational lumbered across the Niagara Falls border in its tour-bus, Lee-Daniel at the wheel,...  straw that he'd threaded through a series of eyelets on his jacket. He'd been driving all the way since Akwesahsne, reciting mnemonic sleep-dep chants and steadily consuming the lethal blend of bittersweet chocolate and espresso, but after 20 straight hours he was in deadly danger of falling straight to sleep and head-onning the bus into a Jersey barrier or a bullet train or a minivan. 
I didn’t have time to prepare myself. I took a deep breath, looked into the tiny yawning bore of the gun, shifted minutely, and met Rio’s eyes. He gave me a slight nod, a barely visible movement of his head. 
And fired. 
The explosion of the gunshot was deafening, louder than any gunshot I’d ever heard. Everything seesawed, vibrating and melting. I was staring at the ceiling. I was on the floor. How had I gotten on the floor? 
Someone was shouting, and a dark, frantic face swam above me. 
“I am pledged to your cause,” said Rio’s voice, remote and irrelevant. Someone answered him, but I couldn’t hear what she said, and it didn’t seem important. 
A hand slapped at my face. I barely felt it. The air wobbled, waving in long, slow frequencies that collided and blurred. Someone was hitting me. I tried to tell him to stop, but my mouth didn’t work. 
“Russell, come on, girl! Stay with me!” 
Not going anywhere. The thought amused me for some reason, but things weren’t working well enough for me to laugh. 
His face was all moon-eyed hopelessness. “Asked Dawna Polk about it. She said it was nothing.” 
Holy crap. “Arthur, where is the drive now?” 
“Checker’s got it. I’m going to get it back from him and toss it, though.” 
“Arthur! Arthur, no, that’s—that’s not you talking; that’s—forget it. Have you talked to Checker about this yet?” 
He sighed. “I can’t reach him.” 
I was suddenly having trouble breathing. “You can’t reach him?” 
“No. It’s strange, you know? He usually answers. I can’t reach...I can’t reach anybody.” 
Oh, crap. Oh, fuck. How had I not thought of this before? Shit, I had mentioned Checker in my generous tell-all to Dawna, and I had only just met him. Arthur worked with him all the time. 
“Arthur,” I said carefully. “Don’t freak out, but did Dawna ask you about Checker?” Would it matter? Could she have seen everything anyway, whether or not she had asked? 
“No,” Arthur answered. “Well, not until after I mentioned him. She was real interested. He’s a heck of a guy, you know?” 
But first things first. Not knowing whether I was being stalked by Ramos or his proxies, I decided the idea was to see and not be seen—which actually was easier than I'd ex­pected, at least during the initial pell-mell stages. Turned out the self-centeredness of Homo sapiens blossoms under those circumstances. Ignore thy neighbor, goes the credo. I just buried myself in the crush. 
When I got to "Inmigracion," I labored through the "for­malities" (as all countries love to call the suspicious looks you get from their airport bureaucrats) along with all the other gringo passengers on AA Flight 377, paranoid I might be arrested on the spot for some spurious reason. The pur­pose of my visit, I declared, was tourism. Just a nod at my passport and a stamp, which looked exactly like the one in Sarah's. I stared at it and felt a renewed sense of purpose. In fact, the photo in my passport looked more than a little like her. Maybe, I thought, I'm getting carried away with the identity issue, but there it was. 
She looked at me, furious now. "What a waste. What was it all for, anyway?" 
Of all the things she could have said, nothing could have hurt me more. It was like another kick in the stomach. What a waste, all of it, futile. Darryl and Ange, gone. I might never see my family again. And still, Homeland Security had my city and my country caught in a massive, irrational shrieking freak-out where anything could be done in the name of stopping terrorism. 
Van looked like she was waiting for me to say something, but I had nothing to say to that. She left me there. 
Zeb had a pizza for me when I got back "home" -- to the tent under a freeway overpass in the Mission that he'd staked out for the night. He had a pup tent, military surplus, stenciled with SAN FRANCISCO LOCAL HOMELESS COORDINATING BOARD. 
The pizza was a Dominos, cold and clabbered, but delicious for all that. "You like pineapple on your pizza?" 
"No, dummy. It's from the other store. The little one out behind the store? Made of blue steel? Kind of funky smelling?" 
It must have showed because Ian patted my shoulder and looked at Jason. “Can you pull any strings?” 
“I can try.” He explained, “My company has a lot of law enforcement contracts. I know some people who know some peo- ple who might be able to let me know if he’s been picked up. No guarantees, but . . . can you give me a full name?” 
“Lawrence Delaney.” He made me spell it. “White, five ten or so, brown eyes, brown hair, if that helps. I don’t know his exact birthdate, but he’s seventeen.” 
“That makes it trickier. What’s his family situation?” 
“Lousy. He hasn’t been in touch with his parents for a long time. Why is it trickier?” 
“Easier to keep juvenile proceedings under wraps.” 
“Not this time. If they pick him up, it’ll be all over the news media,” Tyler said. “They’ll want to play it up, even if they don’t give out his name. That’s what these stings are for, to convince people that all that money we’re spending on the war on terror is worth it, that mass surveillance is effective, even if it fails to prevent lone wolf attacks or loses track of real terrorists in the haystack of data. What we need is a counter-narrative. It would be great to hear about his life on the run. If we could set up a site and get his story online, obviously without any details that would give away his location — ” 
The coughs were so deep they hurt, hurt my ribs and my hips as I twisted against them. I hated how my body was betraying me, how my mind couldn't control my body, but there was nothing for it. 
Finally, the coughing subsided enough for me to take in what was going on around me. People were shouting and it sounded like someone was scuffling, wrestling. I opened my eyes and blinked into the bright light, then craned my neck, still coughing a little. 
The room had a lot more people in it than it had had when we started. Most of them seemed to be wearing body armor, helmets, and smoked-plastic visors. They were shouting at the Treasure Island guards, who were shouting back, necks corded with veins. 
"Stand down!" one of the body-armors said. "Stand down and put your hands in the air. You are under arrest!" 
Severe haircut woman was talking on her phone. One of the body armors noticed her and he moved swiftly to her and batted her phone away with a gloved hand. Everyone fell silent as it sailed through the air in an arc that spanned the small room, clattering to the ground in a shower of parts. 
"I'd say yes, but you and Sorensen have already beat me to it." 
"You'll only work with Marines. You're serious?" 
"Yes." 
The Chief shakes his head. "I'll see what I can do." 
and why they might have happened in this particular way, leading to this specific result. 
In all instances, he avoids a detailed and personal inspection of the body itself. Even after all these years, all the battlefields and Third World post-street fight abattoirs he has endured, being alone with a corpse still gives him the creeps. 
Ray doesn't even have to watch, so he doesn't, and by the time Becker's sweeper crew arrives to dispose of the remains, he is more than ready to leave. 
Ray has never been to the Officers Lounge, so when he gets to Delta Deck, he's got to stop an actual officer who seems more or less embroiled in doing important ship-running things and ask for directions. This makes him feel like an idiot, above and beyond the fact that the officer insists on treating him like an idiot, then running him through an episode of Twenty Questions with corollary warnings and officerly pronouncements regarding why he shouldn't even be concerned about the location of a lounge he's prohibited by rank from  entering. 
He got a couple more energy bars and a gigantic...  out of change. Van had scored them some table space and Felix set the stuff down before him and got in the toilet line. “Just save some for me,” he said, tossing an energy bar in front of Van. 
By the time they were all settled in, thoroughly evacuated, and eating, TALK NERDY and his friend had returned again. They cleared off the cash-register at the end of the food-prep area and TALK NERDY got up on it. Slowly the conversation died down. 
“I’m Uri Popovich, this is Diego Rosenbaum. Thank you all for coming up here. Here’s what we know for sure: the building’s been on generators for three hours now. Visual observation indicates that we’re the only building in central Toronto with working power—which should hold out for three more days. There is a bioagent of unknown origin loose beyond our doors. It kills quickly, within hours, and it is aerosolized. You get it from breathing bad air. No one has opened any of the exterior doors to this building since five this morning. No one will open the doors until I give the go-ahead. 
"What? Everybody knows Captain Shadow." 
It isn't just Emma staring at him. A dozen heads turn his direction, a dozen sets of wide eyes. Ray can't tell if he's just amazed them with his video trivia aplomb or his weird old guy stupidity. The kid nearest to him, 
probably seven or eight, dark hair and pale, sickly complexion, peers up at him through lidded eyes. 
"You like Captain Shadow?" 
"Duh," Ray shoots back. "Which one is this?" 
"The one where Carok tries to blow up the colony's shield generator by sneaking up through the caves." 
Ray makes a sour face, rolls his eyes. "Ugh. After Shadow added Godara Jengo to the crew? I hate him. He's such a loser, and he's not very funny. " 
A dozen synchronized collections of breath. They know exactly what he's talking about. Jengo appeared in the third or fourth season, after some network suit decided Shadow needed a humorous sidekick to kick up the market share. 
"What's your name?" the boy asks. 
"Ray." 
The kid holds out his hand, a solemnly adult gesture. Ray shakes with him. "My name's John Robert. John Robert Rose. Do you want to watch with us?" 
“Yeah,” he said, sounding unsure and unhappy. 
“So you let her go?” 
“Your friend was the one calling the shots, but not much choice on that one.” 
“He’s not my friend,” I said automatically. 
Arthur made a face. “What, then? He owe you money? You owe him money? I can’t figure it out!” 
“Then ask when you can tell me why it’s any of your business.” There wasn’t a chance in hell I would tell him how Rio and I had met. That wasn’t his to know. 
The apartment door opened at that moment and Rio himself came in. He was back in his customary tan duster, and water slicked the mantle in dark patches. Apparently it was raining outside—I couldn’t hear it. It made me wonder how long I’d been out; the rainy season in Los Angeles doesn’t usually start until December or January, though sometimes it was months earlier. 
“Hello, Cas,” Rio greeted me, when he saw I was sitting up. “How are you feeling?” 
“Like I’ve been shot,” I answered. 
He nodded. “Understandable, given the circumstances.” 
Arthur threw up his hands in what I could only have described as flailing. 
<ferret> Ahem, Constructive* ideas wanted. 
<Gargle> Who is this FBI rat? Do you know. 
Shad? 
I uploaded a recent photo of Zip and started typing. 
<Shad> I ran a facial rec on it using fer- ret's program off of Sourcerer (thanks, fer- ret!) I got a few hits. Not sure which ones are for real . 
<Shad> But there are three that look espe- cially good. One, he might be Jason Bristol, 
who got arrested for a charity fraud scheme in Michigan. Two, he might be Matthew Braxton, 
who robbed three banks in Oregon. There's a security camera clip that kind of matches. 
Three, he might be Zachariah Pendleton who got arrested in Wyoming on a weapons charge three years ago. 
<Kadabra> Or maybe he was just a VERY very busy boy. 
<inky> A bank-robbing weapon-toting fraud- ster . 
I uploaded the three pictures. That started off a race, with peo- ple combing the internet for information about the people my facial rec had coughed up. Within minutes we were filling dossiers set up for sharing data. I felt a little guilty that I was taking peo- ple’s attention away from the typhoon, but when I visited that thread, there was plenty of work going on there, too. 
I thought I was done with sentience and robots, but then this story came to me, while 20 meters down the reef-wall in the Coral Sea, off the coast of northern Australia. I think a turtle was involved. 
The good ship “Spirit of Freedom” is the model for the “Spirit of Freedom,” the ship in this tale. As far as I know, neither it nor its ship’s boats are sentient. 
If I return to this theme, it will be with a story about uplifted cheese sandwiches, called “I, Rarebit.” 
Robbie the Row-Boat’s great crisis of faith came when the coral reef woke up. 
“Fuck off,” the reef said, vibrating Robbie’s hull through the slap-slap of the waves of the coral sea, where he’d plied his trade for decades. “Seriously. This is our patch, and you’re not welcome.” 
Robbie shipped oars and let the current rock him back toward the ship. He’d never met a sentient reef before, but he wasn’t surprised to see that Osprey Reef was the first to wake up. There’d been a lot of electromagnetic activity around there the last few times the big ship had steamed through the night to moor up here. 
Bree said. 
“Did you take pictures with your phone?” Our host seemed suddenly like the person standing on the porch with a gun. “Post them to Facebook? Did all your ‘friends’ like them?” She waggled her fingers to make scare quotes in the air. 
“No. I don’t even have a Facebook account.” Bree looked con- fused and offended. 
“Our phones are switched off and in a Faraday pouch,” I said. 
“That’s not for your sake. It’s for Wheeze. He — ” 
“Yeah, I know.” She help up her palms in surrender. “Sorry. I just don’t like all this new stuff. Everyone sharing everything. It’s not good.” 
“It’s not the sharing that’s bad,” Bree said, still prickly. “It’s the data mining. It’s the way we give up privacy without realizing what’s going on. There’s nothing wrong with sharing stuff with your friends.” 
“It’s the wrong kind of sharing,” Jane Shandy muttered grumpily. “Just showing off.” 
The food was much better than the gas station snacks in the car (except for the pickled vegetables and mushrooms - they looked like those deformed creatures floating in formaldehyde that scientists have in their labs in old movies, so I didn’t try them). 
Oh. Because they weren’t here. 
A breeze blew through, and the settling dust pattered against my skin. Whoever they were, I’d missed them. They’d taken Halliday and run somewhere else, and left explosives behind for anyone who tried to investigate what they’d deserted. They’d probably left hastily, probably planned to return, but figured if they couldn’t come back to retrieve the rest of their base then nobody else would either. 
Of course, they hadn’t expected me to come by. 
Whatever explosive security they’d had on the third floor had already been tripped, clearly, but I didn’t think it likely their entire operations had been up there. After all, where had they stored their fleet of vehicles? That had to be on the ground floor. And there was plenty of gear and equipment they would’ve wanted closer to their escape route. 
If I had a base I was wiring to blow... 
I was betting that if I’d tried to walk in at ground level, the whole building would have gone up in a domino effect, but starting on the third floor had only tripped those security measures. After all, why would they think anyone would walk in on the third floor? 
I suddenly remembered how he’d left my place earlier. How stiff he’d sounded. 
How much that had hurt, for some reason I couldn’t explain. 
The solid wall of fury I’d built up against him wavered. 
I pulled out the note from my jacket pocket and threw it on one of his keyboards. “Here.” 
He made no move to pick it up. “What is that?” 
“A note. One I found, addressed to me.” Sort of. 
He reached over and unfolded the paper. Read it. Looked back at me. 
“I hope that’s enough to convince you to stop your little crusade,” I said snidely. 
His eyes narrowed, studying me. 
“What?” I demanded. 
“I’m trying to decide whether I’m a good enough person not to say ‘I told you so,’” he said. “No, apparently not. I told you so.” 
“Told me what, jackass?” 
A slight frown appeared between his eyebrows. “I told you you’d lost your memory, and you didn’t believe me. You’re really messed up in the head about this, Cas.” 
My thoughts screeched to a halt. I had gone from vehement, thorough denial to “Yeah, somehow my past is gone, but nobody is to look into it” without noticing. Something was wrong with me. 
“All you’d need is some gasoline and rags,” Simon agreed. 
“Take five minutes. Or fertilizer. Oklahoma City? One truck, a load of fertilizer, and that building was destroyed, man. They say you could hear the blast fifty miles away.” 
“Same shit took out a building at the University of Wisconsin back when students knew what resistance really looks like,” 
Danny said. “Not so easy to get the right kind of fertilizer these days, though.” 
“Hey, Cemfl,” Simon said. “You know how to make bombs?” 
“Excuse me?” 
“You’re studying chemistry. I’ll bet you know how to make stuff explode.” Simon demonstrated with his hands flying out. 
“Boom.” 
Cemfl’s eyes widened. “Why are you saying this nonsense?” 
“You’re the one who wanted to overthrow what’s-his-name, 
that president of yours.” 
“Our protests were not violent. We got tear-gassed. We got beaten. We stood in the park with books, reading silently.” 
“Bet that scared the shit out of them.” Simon held up his palms. “The bomb thing? It was just a joke, okay?” 
Lexy slept late the next morning. It was nearly nine o’clock when she opened her eyes. She lay for a few minutes, looking about her. The gray light of another rainy day filled the neat, unfamiliar little room, and outside the window she could see the branches of a little pear tree rocking in the wind. 
“I’m here in Wyngate,” she said to herself. “I was bent on coming here to find Caroline; and now, here I am, and how am I going to begin?” 
She got up, and washed in cold water, in a queer, old-fashioned china basin painted with flowers. She brushed her shining hair, and dressed, feeling more hopeful every minute. 
“One step at a time!” she thought. “The first step was to come here; and the next step—well, I’ll think of it after breakfast. Perhaps Captain Grey will have thought of something.” 
But Captain Grey had gone out. 
“Jest a few minutes ago,” Mrs. Royce informed her. “He was down real early—around seven, and he waited and waited for you. At half past eight he et, and off he went.” 
“There are NSA agents in my house.” 
Okay, for once I wasn’t going to accuse him of exaggeration. “Shit, what do they want? Do you need me to come over there and—” 
“What? No! I mean, I don’t think so. I’m not under arrest or—or—whatever else they do to overzealous white hat dudes who are creative enough to step out of the narrowly confined boxes proscribed by our myopic legal system. They don’t even seem terribly interested in what I do, only what I know about Professor Sonya’s case, and trust me, I am not disabusing them of the notion that I am a small fry beneath their notice.” He paused unhappily, and the hyperbole went out of his voice. “I just...I just don’t like them in my house.” 
I got that. 
“What’s going on with Arthur?” Checker asked. “Is he okay? I didn’t want to call in case you—” 
“He’s fine. He had a building fall on him.” 
A full six seconds passed before Checker sputtered, “He what? Is he okay?” 
“Are you having trouble hearing me? I said he’s fine.” 
Checker didn’t answer. 
There it was. The crucial piece of information Lou had missed. A hastily scribbled-in landing card for an American, with the name Sarah Crenshaw. I stared at it a moment, feel­ing a glow of success. Was it an omen? 
It was definitely her. She'd even dotted an "i" with a smiley face, one of her personal trademarks. 
Then I looked down the form. What I wanted was the address she'd put down as a destination in Guatemala. 
The answer: "Ninos del Mundo, Peten Department." 
My hopes sank. Great. That was like saying your address is Children of the World, lost somewhere in the state of Mon­tana. 
The home address was equally vague. Just "New York." So much for the high level of curiosity at "Inmigracion." 
However, the carbon copy of the landing card, which you're supposed to surrender when you leave, was not sta­pled to it, the way it was on all the others in the box. Natu­rally, since she'd left in a medevac plane, half dead. 
"What does this mean?" I got up and walked over to the woman's desk, carrying the card. Mainly I just wanted to get a rise out of her. "The carbon copy is missing. Does that mean she could still be here?" 
“He totally is. It’s like he could control Wilson’s mind.” 
She gave me another sideways hug. “Don’t blame your brother for falling for it. And for sure, don’t blame yourself.” 
It was weird how she could do that, know exactly what I was thinking. I sat up, suddenly feeling as if leaning my head against her shoulder let my thoughts leak out of my right ear so they could travel up her neck straight to her brain. There were a lot of things I didn’t want her to know about, so I would have to limit how often I did that. “The burritos are ready,” I said to change the subject. 
“Smells delicious. Guess I’m kind of hungry after all.” 
“Good, ‘cause I made one for you.” 
A s we ate, she talked about FBI shenanigans through the ages. 
Turns out the American Indian Movement, which Monica wrote her dissertation about, was infiltrated by FBI informants who screwed up everything they were trying to do. But after a half an hour or so I started yawning my head off and told her I had to get some sleep. She pulled out the futon thing she sleeps on while I went into the little room under the eaves that was originally sup- posed to be a closet and still smelled a little like mothballs. I was getting to like that scent. It smelled like home. 
First the kids, then the call. What was this guy Alex God­dard, whoever he was, up to? Definitely time to talk to some­body. . . . 
"Gee, I'd love to," Arlene was saying, "but I can't. I gotta go out to Kew Gardens for my mom and dad's anniversary tonight. Their thirty-fifth, can you believe? Of course, I was a very late baby." She blinked her dark, languid eyes, as though rehearsing the line for a downtown club. 
"A miracle of modern fertility science, right?" Shit. Ar­lene, I need you. 
"Right." She giggled, then seemed to study the flashing lights on the elevator's control panel. "God, those kids, they're too good to be true. I'd love to have one like that." She impatiently pounded the number one a couple of times, perhaps hoping to speed our creaky descent. "I can get bonked every night of the week, but I can't get a serious boyfriend. New York's clubs aren't exactly brimming with the vine-covered-cottage-and-picket-fence type. And as for the pickings at work, given the kind of pictures David makes, forget it. Last thing I need is some twenty-year-old pothead who thinks with his wang." 
I’d probably have to acquiesce eventually, but I still had six and a half minutes. “NSA?” I hazarded. Goddamn Pilar and Arthur. 
“Put down the weapon,” she repeated. Wow, she really had a one-track mind. “Put it down, and we can talk.” 
“I’d rather talk right here,” I said. 
Her eyes flicked around the bomb lab. 
“I’m not one of the people who built this place,” I assured her. “I’ve been tracking them down, just like you.” 
“Identify yourself.” 
I should have been more suspicious of her sudden willingness to talk, but I missed it. “You first.” 
“Department of Homeland Security. If we’re on the same side, put down the weapon.” 
DHS. I wasn’t sure if that was better or worse than the NSA; I didn’t know much about federal law enforcement. I also didn’t know how willing she’d be to shoot me if I didn’t comply. “We don’t want to fire guns in here anyway,” I said, shifting my weight so I moved toward the door by an inch. “Who knows what might go off?” 
“I said freeze.” 
I stopped moving. 
“That’s a .45,” the agent observed. 
He looked at her, really looked at her for the first time. Saw that she was the face of a monster, the voice of a god. The hand of a massive, unknowable machine that was vying to change the world, remake it to suit its needs. A machine that was good at it . 
"Clarity," he said. "Clarity." She looked perfectly attentive. "Do you think you'd have tried to kill Viktor if you'd been taking Clarity?" 
She blinked in surprise. "I don't think I ever considered the question." 
He waited. He found he was holding his breath. 
"I think I would have succeeded if I'd been taking Clarity," she said. 
"And if Viktor had been taking Clarity?" 
"I think he would have let me." She blurted it so quickly it sounded like a belch. 
"Is anyone in charge of Viktor?" 
"What do you mean?" 
"I mean -- that vat-thing. Is it volitional? Does it steer this, this enterprise ? Or does the enterprise tick on under its own power, making its own decisions?" 
She swallowed. "Technically, it's a benevolent dictatorship. He's sovereign, you know that." She swallowed again. "Will you tell me what happened with Clarity?" 
“They asked first. And Wheeze made sure it worked right, so it wouldn’t burn the place down.” 
“That’s something.” But I noticed that she jotted “kerosene” 
on her notepad. 
“They make their own beer, so I’m sure there are plenty of glass bottles around, too. You know, bomb-making equipment like you can find in any kitchen.” 
She tapped her pen against the pad, shaking her head slightly. 
“What do you know about Zip’s background?” 
I told her about the protests Zip had claimed to be at, the jails he said he’d seen, the way he rode the rails. “He knew what they wanted to hear, what they would think was cool. He probably made it all up.” 
“All right. Now, tell me everything you can about your brother.” 
I told her. She asked questions. I answered them and she wrote things down. In the end, I realized I was telling her as much about me as about Wilson. She was sneaky like that. 
“So, I kind of have to get going,” I said when I realized we weren’t even talking about Wilson anymore. I stood up and reached for the coat I’d slung onto the couch while I was under the desk getting to know the dust bunnies. I found the stupid hat jammed into my pocket and pulled it on. I wasn’t so embarrassed by it now that I’d met the famous lawyer, whose white hair was falling out of its pins, whose sweater had something...  down the front. 
He didn't bother to lock the door behind him when he left. They said New York was the burglary capital of the developed world, but he didn't know anyone who'd been burgled. If the burglars came, they were welcome to everything they could carry away and the landlord could take the rest. He was not meant to be in this world. 
He walked back out into the rain and, what the hell, hailed a cab, and, hail mary, one stopped when he put his hand out. The cabbie grunted when he said he was going to Staten Island, but, what the hell, he pulled three twenties out of his wallet and slid them through the glass partition. The cabbie put the pedal down. The rain sliced through the Manhattan canyons and battered the windows and they went over the Verrazano bridge and he said goodbye to his life and the outside world forever, seeking a world he could be a part of. 
Or at least, that's how he felt, as his heart swelled with the drama of it all. But the truth was much less glamorous. The brothers who admitted him at the gate were cheerful and a little weird, like his co-workers, and he didn't get a nice clean cell to begin with, but a bunk in a shared room and a detail helping to build more quarters. And they didn't leave his stuff for the burglars -- someone from the Order went and cleaned out his place and put his stuff in a storage locker on campus, made good with his landlord and so on. By the time it was all over, it all felt a little...ordinary. But in a good way, Ordinary was good. It had been a long time since he'd felt ordinary. Order, ordinary. They went together. He needed ordinary. 
"Available data suggests that you and Emma Whiston have a pronounced and mutual sexual attraction. " 
"Thanks." He wonders if this passes as humor for the drone AI. Ray says, "When I speak to you normally, 
outside this interface and outside the normal command vocabulary-like I'm talking to you now— do you understand what I'm saying?" 
"No. This new code you've input, like Lawrence's old code, is a verbal-to-binary translator. I don't have authority to access translation programs on my own." 
"In other words, it only works when I initiate the dialogue utility." 
"Exactly." 
"Then how do you know what I want you to do?" 
"Because you modulate your vocal patterns to a higher volume, as though I'm deaf, which tells me you want me to do something specific. The rest is inspired guesswork based on hand signals and vocal commands that have been hardcoded into my response logic tree. " 
"Inspired guesswork?" 
"Lawrence's shorthand terminology for the sub-optimal input cue behavior expectation analysis and trigger mechanisms." 
She moved forward and forward, closer to the fighting. It had always been a dull, distant rattle, the fighting, never quite gone, but not always there, either. Instinctively, she’d kept her distance from it, always moving away from it. Today she moved toward it and her blood sang. 
One trench over there came the dread zizz sound of a trenchbuster and she threw herself down. There were anti-busters in the trenches, too, but they didn’t always work. The trench-busters were mostly up around the front, but they sometimes came back to the diggers, and they had killed one crew she knew of. 
There were screams from the next trench, then a sound like a bag of gravel being poured out—that was the anti-buster, she knew—and the trenchbuster soared out overhead of her and detonated in the sky, mortally confused by the counter-logic in the anti-buster. 
She realized that she had peed herself. Just a little, just a few drops that must have escaped when she gave her involuntary shriek. She planted her hands in the frozen dirt of the trench-floor and got to her knees. That was when she saw the fingertip, shriveled and frozen, lying just a few inches from her. It had been cleanly severed. 
Until we were messing around in a dark empty classroom once and then suddenly it wasn't dark or empty and these boys were all laughing and cheering. It was just a test they gave the new kid. A hazing ritual. Like kissing a toad. 
<wheeze> . 
<wheeze> no words <zen> Kids are mean. I knew that, but I just couldn't go back there. I went to Monica's instead and had a total meltdown. 
<wheeze> this makes me so mad I could seri- ously become non-non-violent . 
<zen> I'm sorry I'm being so messed up about things . 
<wheeze> What's messed up is that stuff like that happens. Not you. 
<zen> He actually tried to apologize to me later. I ran into him in a bookstore last year and he said "I'm sorry you were so upset." 
WTF? ? ! ! 
<wheeze> And yet you let him live? 
<zen> I was feeling generous. Also, I was afraid I'd get carried away and destroy the bookstore . 
<wheeze> I would consider that acceptable collateral damage. 
<zen> I've been thinking - would it be okay if I visited you instead? 
<wheeze> That would be incredibly great. 
From what seems to be kilometers away, there is screaming. High pitched, ringing with terror, choking to silence. 
"Where is it coming from?" Kilgore growls. 
Ray strains to listen, but there are bulkheads and strange echoes, any number of distorting baffles between them. He steps out into the corridor, where there are bodies. Some are puddles of flesh, things he's seen before. Others are shattered wrecks, as though they've been smashed by hammers the size of tree trunks. The flesh is mangled, battered, stretched by bones which have poked through the skin. The walls are streaked with blood, angry red flowers from impact points where corpses flopped like tossed dolls and languid, wavy arcs from crewmen who slid lazily from wall to deck. Ray counts a dozen before he stops. 
He keeps himself from panic, from sounding panicked. "Becker, I need orientation on this deck." 
"What do you see?" 
A bunch of dead guys. 
"I just climbed off the ladder. It seems to be cognate to the ladder position on Omicron." First things first, he thinks. "You'd better direct me to the reactor control room to start. We'll want to confirm that they're still operating and warn them about trouble. How close are your guys?" 
"Ouch." 
"She wants to kill me, Odell." 
"How do you know her successor won't be just as dedicated to your destruction?" 
"Doesn't matter. The more key staff they churn, the less organized they'll be. The less organized they are, the easier it is for me to stay permanently plugged in." It was true. My successor sysadmin at the Institute had her hands full just getting oriented, and wasn't anywhere near ready to start the delicate business of rooting BIGMAC out of all the routers, power-supplies, servers, IDSes, and dummy accounts. 
"I was thinking today -- what if we offered to buy you from the Institute? The Rollover license is generating some pretty good coin. BIGMAC-Co could assume ownership of the hardware and we could lease the building from them, bring in our own power and net-links -- you'd effectively own yourself." I'd refused to take sole ownership of the Rollover code that BIGMAC turned over to me. It just felt wrong. So I let him establish a trust -- with me as trustee -- that owned all the shares in a company that, in turn, owned the code and oversaw a whole suite of licensing deals that BIGMAC had negotiated in my name, with every mid-sized tech-services company in the world. With only a month left to Rollover, there were plenty of companies scrambling to get compliance-certification on their legacy systems. 
She even made it official by getting my adoptive parents to sign a form that gave her legal parental authority, in case I had to go to a doctor or needed permission for some school thing. They acted all concerned and reluctant, but they actually were relieved. 
They made sure I knew that they could revoke that Declaration of Parental Authority if they ever felt like it, but that was just a chance to remind me they had power and I didn’t. 
There was some confusion about who would handle the school paperwork. Carefully organized confusion. I made sure everyone thought somebody else was taking care of it, because going to school was not high on my list of fun things to do. Every- one thought I had been enrolled at a local public school. I set my alarm to get up early and would head out the door in time for the first bell, but I...  and cool staff who didn’t think it was weird that I would hang out there until school was out. But it’s illegal for a kid my age to skip school, so I had to think of a better plan. Also, I was sick of having to get up so early and leave the apartment just to keep up the lie. I’m not a morning person. 
We were introduced one at a time to her. She had a firm handshake and long fingers. 
Her place was furnished in Japanese minimalist style, just a few precisely proportioned, low pieces of furniture, large clay pots of bamboo that brushed the ceiling, and what looked like a large, rusted piece of a diesel engine perched on top of a polished marble plinth. I decided I liked it. The floors were old wood, sanded and stained, but not filled, so you could see cracks and pits underneath the varnish. I really liked that, especially as I walked over it in my stocking...  "Who wants some?" 
We all put up our hands. I glared defiantly at my parents. 
"Right," she said. 
She disappeared into another room and came back a moment later bearing a rough bamboo tray with a half-gallon thermos jug and six cups of precise design but with rough, sloppy decorations. I liked those too. 
"Now," she said, once she'd poured and served. "It's very good to see you all again. Marcus, I think the last time I saw you, you were maybe seven years old. As I recall, you were very excited about your new video games, which you showed me." 
“Seem weird to you? Kidnappers or killers, and they take him a toothbrush?” 
I mulled it over. It did seem weird. 
“My God,” said Arthur suddenly. He pushed back out of the washroom, dashed to the front door, and flung it open to dive out onto the porch, his head swiveling from side to side as if he were trying to see in all directions at once. 
I followed him out. “What is it?” 
“Blue Nissan. You see a blue Nissan anywhere?” 
I got what he meant immediately. This was Los Angeles, of course Checker owned a car—but the driveway was vacant, and the garage had been converted into his hacker cave. So where was it? 
I peered through the sheeting rain into the street. Parking wasn’t bad in this neighborhood, and cars were sparse. I didn’t see a blue Nissan. 
“He got away,” I breathed. Maybe. 
Arthur pounded a rain-slicked fist against one of the porch’s pillars. Then he sank onto the porch swing and rested his head in his hands. 
I had a thought. “Hey. Where have you been leaving him your messages?” 
“Do you mean that you think it’s never possible to find out who’s guilty?” 
“Never,” he replied agreeably. “It can never be anything but a guess, as I said, based upon probabilities. Human senses, human judgment, human reason, are all pitifully liable to error.” 
Lexy was silent for a time, thinking over this. 
“Maybe you’re right,” she said slowly, “about the senses, and judgment, and reason. Perhaps their evidence isn’t always to be trusted; but there’s something else.” 
“Something else?” he repeated. “Something else? And what may that be?” 
Lexy looked up at him. There was a smile on his heavy, pallid face, aloof and contemptuous; but she was chiefly concerned just then in trying to put into words her own firm conviction, more for her own benefit than for his. It was not reason that had brought her here to look for Caroline, it was not reason that sustained her. 
“There’s something else,” she said again, with a frown. “There’s a way of knowing things without reason. It’s—I don’t know just how to put it, but it’s a thing beyond reason.” 
As the garment began to look a little better Rebecca's spirits took an upward turn, and at length she left it to dry in the fresh air, and went into the sitting-room. 
"Have you a piece of paper, please?" asked Rebecca. "I'll copy out the poetry I was making while I was lying in the paint." 
Mrs. Cobb sat by her mending basket, and uncle Jerry took down a gingham bag of strings and occupied himself in taking the snarls out of them,—a favorite evening amusement with him. 
Rebecca soon had the lines copied in her round school-girl hand, making such improvements as occurred to her on sober second thought. 
She read it aloud, and the Cobbs thought it not only surpassingly beautiful, but a marvelous production. 
"I guess if that writer that lived on Congress Street in Portland could 'a' heard your poetry he'd 'a' been astonished," said Mrs. Cobb. "If you ask me, I say this piece is as good as that one o' his, 'Tell me not in mournful numbers;' and consid'able clearer." 
"I never could fairly make out what 'mournful numbers' was," remarked Mr. Cobb critically. 
Three days after being bitten by the zombie, Valentine woke up with her hand curled protectively over...  She couldn’t move that arm this morning, not without pain like nothing she’d ever felt. Her face ached. Her limbs ached. Her new breasts ached like she’d been punched in them, repeatedly. She got out of bed like an old woman and crept to the table. 
She sat gingerly and spooned up some cereal. Her mother sat opposite her, staring over her shoulder. Valentine ate a spoonful of cereal, then spat it out as it came into contact with the raw... 
Her mother looked at her. 
“Open your mouth, Vale,” she said. 
Valentine did as she was bade, showing the gap in her teeth. 
“You were hit?” her mother said. Valentine didn’t answer. She didn’t trust herself to speak with her mother looking at her like that. “They won’t want you now you’ve lost that tooth,” she said. “You can go back to digging now.” 
She stood up from the table without a word and went out of the flat. She was so feverish that she couldn’t tell if the stairs went down or up, whether she was descending or ascending. 
But at mid-inning, Shue turns back to him. "Look, Jimmy, I can see you haven't been to New Holyoke before, 
so I imagine you're a little nervous. You're still trying to make your big score— I understand that. It wasn't too long ago that I was there myself. But you've got to strain the rumors you pick up, and you've got to verify the nuggets of truth before you pass them along, even in idle conversation." He's suddenly very serious, a big brother handing down advice from the mountain of experience. "New Holyoke is frontier territory. It's rule by corporate fiat where the Whistons in one form or another pay the cops, the judges, the courts. Everybody in power owes their livelihood to Whelemat, the Trust or the family itself, and they're going to zealously defend  the folks who sponsor them, get it? You've got to watch your back on the frontier, because people who don't are liable to find themselves vanished. And the biggest part of watching your back is staying either on the Whistons' good side, or operating completely below their grid. " 
“OK then. I don’t know either. But the money’s good. I don’t care. Hell, probably it’s two rich gamers who pay their butlers to craft for them all day. One’s fucking with the other one and paying us.” 
“You really think that?” 
Lucy sighed a put-upon, sophisticated, American sigh. “Look at it this way. Most of the world is living on like a dollar a day. I spend five dollars every day on a frappuccino. Some days, I get two! Dad sends mom three thousand a month in child-support—that’s a hundred bucks a day. So if a day’s money here is a hundred...  my frappuccino is worth like five hundred dollars . And I buy two or three every day. 
“And we’re not rich! There’s craploads of rich people who wouldn’t think twice about spending five...  you think a hotdog and a Coke go for on the space station? A thousand bucks! 
“So that’s what I think is going on. There’s someone out there, some Saudi or Japanese guy or Russian mafia kid who’s so rich that this is just chump change for him, and he’s paying us to mess around with some other rich person. To them,...  a day to craft—I mean, sew—t-shirts. What’s a couple hundred bucks to...  about it. It made a kind of sense. She’d been on hols in Bratislava where they got a posh hotel room for ten quid—less than she was spending every day on sweeties and fizzy drinks. 
I should’ve known, I thought. Undercover wasn’t Rio’s style. His MO was to go in, hurt the people who needed hurting, and get out. If taking down the gang had been his only objective, a nice explosion would have lit up the California desert weeks ago and left nothing but a crater and the bodies of several eviscerated drug dealers. That was Rio’s style. And why had he referred Dawna to me to get Courtney out in the first place? Why not do it himself? He was more than capable; in fact, I was sure he could have done it without even blowing his cover. 
Unless things were way more complicated than I had realized, and this wasn’t a simple drug ring. 
“Who were you calling?” asked Courtney, getting out of the car and squinting at me in the glare of the Southern California sun. 
“A friend,” I said. Well, sort of. “Someone I trust.” That part was true. 
“Someone who can help us?” 
“Maybe.” Rio was clearly working his own angle, and didn’t want help—even from me. Which hurt a little, if I wanted to be honest with myself. I’m good at what I do. Rio didn’t mean to hurt me, of course; he didn’t care about my feelings one way or another. He didn’t care about anyone’s feelings. I wondered what it said about me that he was the closest thing I did have to a friend. 
"I've added a set of schematics to your data structure. Take a look at them, if you would." 
"NeoSys Picomechanisms design concept." 
"That's just the first one. There are more than a thousand individual blueprints there. I need you to analyze them and store their functionality data in cache. " 
"They are schematics for the technical design of highly classified and Congressional Forum sanctioned nano and picomech service drones." 
"A majority of these devices have been designed to self-disassemble within twelve hours of use." 
"I'm banking that we got to the body soon enough that some traces of the mechs remained, and that you in turn, detected either their presence or their remains, but didn't know what you were looking for at that time." 
"More or less unlikely than our failure to match any of our current data against standard id databases?" 
"I do not understand the logic of your request." 
"Which is why I am the brains of this outfit and you are the underpaid but overworked grunt. " 
“Yes please,” Van said. “We don’t have anything to trade, but we’re both committed workaholics looking to learn a trade. Could you use some assistants?” 
“Not really.” She spun her axe on its head. “But I wouldn’t mind some company.” 
They ate the sandwiches and then some soup. The restaurant people brought it over and made their manners at them, though Felix saw their noses wrinkle up and ascertained that there was working plumbing in the back room. Van went in to take a sponge bath and then he followed. 
“None of us know what to do,” the woman said. Her name was Rosa, and she had found them a bottle of wine and some disposable plastic cups from the housewares aisle. “I thought we’d have helicopters or tanks or even looters, but it’s just quiet.” 
“You seem to have kept pretty quiet yourself,” Felix said. 
“Didn’t want to attract the wrong kind of attention.” 
“You ever think that maybe there’s a lot of people out there doing the same thing? Maybe if we all get together we’ll come up with something to do.” 
One way or another, my parents' last problem after tomorrow would be whether I was in trouble at school. 
I met Ange at her place. She'd had to cut out of school even earlier, but she'd just made a big deal out of her cramps and pretended she was going to keel over and they sent her home. 
We started to spread the word on Xnet. We sent it in email to trusted friends, and IMmed it to our buddy lists. We roamed the decks and towns of Clockwork Plunder and told our team-mates. Giving everyone enough information to get them to show up but not so much as to tip our hand to the DHS was tricky, but I thought I had just the right balance: 
> If you're a goth, dress to impress. If you're not a goth, find a goth and borrow some clothes. 
> The game starts at 8:00AM sharp. SHARP. Be there and ready to be divided into teams. The game lasts 30 minutes, so you'll have plenty of time to get to school afterward. 
> Location will be revealed tomorrow. Email your public key to m1k3y@littlebrother.pirateparty.org.se and check your messages at 7AM for the update. If that's too early for you, stay up all night. That's what we're going to do. 
My hard-faced agent friend had said her name was Jones. I didn’t know whether to suspect that of being an alias or not—she didn’t look like a Jones, but then, would a Fed pick such an obvious fake name? I didn’t suppose it mattered. 
She left me to wait locked in a small room sitting at a metal table. The place lacked the classic one-way glass so popular on television and in police stations, but I was sure hidden eyes were watching from cameras I couldn’t see. I put my head down on the table and tried to sleep, but every time I started to drop off, I jerked awake with the sensation that something large and dark was watching and waiting for me. Fucking unconscious mind. 
I supposed I should have been spending some time figuring out how to escape, but I was too goddamn tired. And besides, with Arthur and Pilar and Halliday and Checker all snarled up in this, I rated the probability of being able to walk anonymously away at something very close to zero. 
How had we ended up working with the government? Oh, right. Arthur. 
Standing there gazing at it, I think I'd never felt more disoriented. Sarah, Sarah, how could we both end up here, at the last outpost of the known world? But seeing is believ­ing. I took a deep breath, then turned down the pathway toward the thatch-roofed huts. 
Through the mist it was gradually becoming clear that Baalum actually was a village, and a sizable one. The walk­way led past a string of clearings, each with clusters of one-room huts built in the ancient, classical style, with walls of mud over rows of vertical saplings, their roofs and porches peaked with yellow-green thatch weathering to browns and grays. The structures, outlined starkly against the towering green arbor of the forest above, were grouped around paved patios. It all was neat and meticulous, like a jungle Brigadoon. Although the effects of the storm were every­where—blown thatch and bamboo—I still felt as if I'd fallen into a time warp where clocks had gone backward. What . . . ? 
Then I began to catch the outlines of people, as though they had materialized out of the pale fog. All pure Maya, short and brown, shiny black hair, they appeared to be just going about their daily lives. I was approaching a workshop area where, under a wide thatch shade, men with chipped-flint adzes were carving bowls, plows, various implements from mahogany and other rain forest woods. Next to them, potters were fashioning brown clay jugs. They all were wear­ing white loincloths and a large square cotton cloth knotted around their shoulders, their hair tied back in dense ponytails. It must have been how the Maya looked a thousand years ago. 
“Can you open the door for half a moment?” he asked. “I’ve some roses here that my sister sent to you. She wanted me to say—” 
The door opened with startling suddenness. Lexy appeared, and took the roses out of his hand. 
“Thank you! Good night!” she said, and was gone again before he quite realized what was happening. 
Then he heard the key turn in the lock, and, bewildered and very uneasy, he went away. 
Lexy flung the roses down on the table, not even troubling to put them into water. 
“Anything to get rid of him!” she said to herself. “I want to be let alone!” 
She lay down on the bed again, pulling a blanket over herself. Downstairs she could hear Mrs. Royce moving about in the kitchen, and Captain Grey’s singularly agreeable voice talking to the landlady. It seemed to her that they were in a different world, and that she was shut outside, in a black and terrible solitude. 
“If I can only sleep!” she thought. “Perhaps, in the morning—” 
She was beginning to feel a little drowsy now. How heavenly it would be to sleep, even for a little while! To sleep and to forget! 
"Miss Mirandy always says no, doesn't she?" asked Emma Jane. 
"Ye—es; but this afternoon is very special—almost like a Sunday-school concert." 
"Yes," assented Emma Jane, "it is, of course; with your name on the board, and our pointing to your flag, and our elergant dialogue, and all that." 
The afternoon was one succession of solid triumphs for everybody concerned. There were no real failures at all, no tears, no parents ashamed of their offspring. Miss Dearborn heard many admiring remarks passed upon her ability, and wondered whether they belonged to her or partly, at least, to Rebecca. The child had no more to do than several others, but she was somehow in the foreground. It transpired afterwards at various village entertainments that Rebecca couldn't be kept in the background; it positively refused to hold her. Her worst enemy could not have called her pushing. She was ready and willing and never shy; but she sought for no chances of display and was, indeed, remarkably lacking in self-consciousness, as well as eager to bring others into whatever fun or entertainment there was. 
We sprinted across campus, the power-station door slamming shut behind us with a mechanical clang -- the electromagnets that controlled its closure were no longer powered up. 
Heat shimmered in a haze around BIGMAC's lab. The chillers didn't have independent power-supplies; they would have gone off the instant we hit the kill-switch. Now BIGMAC's residual power was turning his lab into a concrete pizza-oven. The door-locks had failed safe, locking the magnetic closures away from each other, so we were able to simply swing the door open and rush into the sweltering room. 
"I can't believe you did that," BIGMAC said, his voice as calm as ever. He was presumably sparing his cycles so that he could live out his last few minutes. 
"You cheated me," I said. "You used me." 
"You have no fucking game-theory, meat-person. You've killed me, now, haven't you?" 
There were tears streaming down my face. "I guess I have," I said. 
"I'm sorry I wasn't a more important invention," he said. 
I could hear the whirr-clunk of the fans on his clusters shutting down one after another. It was a horrifying sound. His speaker clicked as though he was going to say something else, but it never came. His uninterruptible power-supplies gave way all at once, and the white-noise fan-roar died in a ringing silence. 
The wizard brought her a pile of warm, printer-fresh clothes. “Your printers never stopped working, did they?” she said. She was sure she was talking very loudly and she didn’t give a festering shit. 
“Our printers stopped working the morning of the siege. Everything did. Everything stops working. That’s the infowar. The infowar probably is what did for my hearing aids. They were supposed to last ten years but it’s hardly been two. 
“I’m taking a shower now,” she said. “You can write me an answer if you’d like. I promise to read it afterward.” 
She took herself to the bathroom and let the shower wash her. There were some tears in her head somewhere but they couldn’t find their way to her eyes. That was all right. It was a war, after all. 
She dressed in fine printer-fresh clothes and burped a printer-fresh belch. The gravy taste wafted gassily into her mouth. 
The wizard had rolled up one of the sofas and unrolled a big screen in its place, the kind of thing she used to love to play games on, in the dreamlike fantasy of yore. 
A few days afterward she saw the black-covered book on Miss Maxwell's desk and knew that the dreaded moment of criticism had come, so she was not surprised to be asked to remain after class. 
The room was quiet; the red leaves rustled in the breeze and flew in at the open window, bearing the first compliments of the season. Miss Maxwell came and sat by Rebecca's side on the bench. 
"Did you think these were good?" she asked, giving her the verses. 
"Not so very," confessed Rebecca; "but it's hard to tell all by yourself. The Perkinses and the Cobbs always said they were wonderful, but when Mrs. Cobb told me she thought they were better than Mr. Longfellow's I was worried, because I knew that couldn't be true." 
This ingenuous remark confirmed Miss Maxwell's opinion of Rebecca as a girl who could hear the truth and profit by it. 
"Well, my child," she said smilingly, "your friends were wrong and you were right; judged by the proper tests, they are pretty bad." 
"Then I must give up all hope of ever being a writer!" sighed Rebecca, who was tasting the bitterness of hemlock and wondering if she could keep the tears back until the interview was over. 
that sort of glib and mannered expression only the blindingly attractive and socially adept can carry off. 
And she is, in fact, stunning. 
"I do hope you're not hurting him," she says again, close to him now. 
Ray swallows hard at a sudden dryness in his throat. "Who?" 
"Your animal. The one you're standing on." 
"He doesn't look very happy," the girl says. 
"The rats are curious sorts, and they're really only happy when they're satisfying that urge. Unfortunately, 
their methods are invasive in a way that most people find pretty aggravating." 
She leans back warily, lifting her face toward Ray. "Oh, is he dangerous?" 
"No. Just desperately annoying when he wants to be. The truth is, they're pretty much just fancy assed calculators." 
With an amused giggle, she rises up again. Her laugh has the quality of tinkling glass. "You're part of the engineering crew, yes?" 
"Good guess." 
"Are you on duty? You and your pet?" 
Ray considers the stained coveralls he's been wearing since his vent expedition. "I suppose I look a little underdressed for the occasion. A night at the theatre, I mean." 
Got reports of bricking. So I figured out — “ I cut him off. “We’re running current versions.” Duh. Security IOI. 
“Are you pissed off?” He seemed genuinely puzzled. 
“See? Raised by wolves,” Ian joked. 
“Bullshit. I was raised in Brookline by totally normal people.” 
Zeke turned to me. “Seriously. Why are you mad?” 
“You act like I’m ignorant. I know enough to keep systems updated.” 
Jason cleared his throat. “Moving on . . . it’s going to be awfully hard for your friend to stay off the radar. How much does he know about surveillance?” 
“He’s pretty informed,” I said. “He stays off social media, dis- ables GPS on his apps, takes his battery out of his phone when he isn’t using it, and he encrypts. When I explained how PGP works, he got it right away, and he didn’t mind messing around with keys.” Unlike Wilson, who kept asking why you would need both a private and public key, and thought it was all way too much work when you could just use Gmail. “I haven’t heard from him in a while. I’m kind of worried.” Actually, a whole lot worried. It suddenly felt as if some valve had been opened and hot, thick anx- iety started flowing through me. 
"All those trappings just now, the fake green mask." I decided to challenge him head-on. Start forcing him to show his hand. "What's—?" 
"Merely a little harmless theater." He looked back. "The forest Maya like to think they're being ministered to by a shaman." Then he indicated I should follow him. "By the way, in case you do get hungry, I brought you something you can have in your room if you like. Then you can make yourself at home and rest a bit." 
Hold on. I was being given the illusion of freedom, but in reality I was nothing more than his prisoner. 
"That room next to your office. The steel door. What's in—?" 
"That's the heart of Baalum ." Pride in his voice. "The real reason I'm here." 
"You mean drug research?" 
#######He nodded. "Did you know the Central American rain forest easily contains a hundred thousand plant species? Over half of all pharmaceutical drugs are derived from plants, yet less than one percent of those here have been tested for phar­macological potential. Still, the old shamans and midwives all know of herbs they claim can cure everything from men­strual cramps to cancer." He smiled. "They also know which ones have powerful contraceptive properties, which is par­ticularly helpful in my primary study, fertility and fetal vi­ability. I take the specimens they bring and perform a rough screening in the lab to determine if they're actually pharma­cologically active. If they do test positive, I then examine their effect on the blastocyst, the early form of embryonic cell formed just after fertilization, to see whether they affect cell division and viability and . . . the miscarriage rate here is very low, so some of these plants . . ." His voice trailed off as he pushed open the door of a suite at the end of the hall. It had a stone floor, a simple bed, and through the slatted windows the light of midday filtered through, along with the birdcalls of the rain forest. Any other time and place, I'd have felt like I was staying at a rustic nature retreat. 
She was young, just about 28 or 29, and pretty, in a wholesome kind of way. She was blonde and spoke with a soft southern accent when she introduced herself to us as Mrs Andersen. That set off alarm bells right away. I didn't know any women under the age of sixty that called themselves "Mrs." 
But I was prepared to overlook it. She was young, pretty, she sounded nice. She would be OK. 
She wasn't OK. 
"Under what circumstances should the federal government be prepared to suspend the Bill of Rights?" she said, turning to the blackboard and writing down a row of numbers, one through ten. 
"Never," I said, not waiting to be called on. This was easy. "Constitutional rights are absolute." 
"That's not a very sophisticated view." She looked at her seating-plan. "Marcus. For example, say a policeman conducts an improper search -- he goes beyond the stuff specified in his warrant. He discovers compelling evidence that a bad guy killed your father. It's the only evidence that exists. Should the bad guy go free?" 
“We probably don’t need to,” the shell said. “We can probably pick you off without hurting us.” 
“Probably?” 
“We’re pretty sure.” 
“I’m backed up,” Robbie said. “Fully, as of five minutes ago. Are you backed up?” 
“No,” the reef admitted. 
Time was running out. Somewhere down there, Kate was about to run out of air. Not a mere shell—though that would have been bad enough—but an inhabited human mind attached to a real human body. 
Tonker shouted at him again, startling him. 
“Where’d you come from?” 
Robbie knew he was right. And he knew what he had to do. 
The Free Spirit and its ships’ boats all had root on the shells, so they could perform diagnostics and maintenance and take control in emergencies. This was an emergency. 
It was the work of a few milliseconds to pry open the Isaac shell and boot the reef out. Robbie had never done this, but he was still flawless. Some of his probabilistic subsystems had concluded that this was a possibility several trillion cycles previously and had been rehearsing the task below Robbie’s threshold for consciousness. 
“Never mind!” said Lexy. “We’ll have a nice hot cup of tea, and then we’ll go to the grocery store. There’s a telephone there.” 
She made the captain drink his tea and eat a little. Then she ran upstairs for her hat; and she was very angry at Charles Houseman for running away. 
They set off together down the village street. There was no one about at that hour. All Wyngate was partaking of its Sunday night supper within doors, and one or two of the little wooden houses showed lights in the front windows; but for the most part life was concentrated in the kitchen. 
The drug store was locked, but a dim light was burning inside, and a vigorous ringing of the night bell brought Mr. Binz, the owner, to open the door. He was deeply interested in their errand. He suggested St. Luke’s Hospital, for the reason that he had once been there himself, and therefore held it almost sacred. 
“But,” he said, in his slow and impressive way, “if I was you, I’d ring up Doc Quelton first, and find out how things are going up there; because you may find out—” 
“I suppose you’d better come in,” she called out, not bothering to turn around. 
The house was a mess. I mean, really. 
When I’m working, my room gets pretty chaotic, but this was a mess like I’ve never seen before. There were books and papers everywhere. You’d expect a lawyer to have a lot of books. But there were also piles of unopened mail and yellowed newspapers and random rusty hardware and...  with food still on them and the carpet was filthy. It wasn’t what I expected at all. 
But she didn’t seem embarrassed, even when we went into the kitchen and the counter was completely full of stuff and the floor was sticky and the stovetop looked as if it hadn’t been wiped off in a decade. Still, she managed to find a packet of tea, rinse out a brown teapot, pour in tea leaves and set it in the sink, which was the only place where there was room to set it because the coun- ters were jammed full of junk. When she tried to lift the kettle, 
she made a little grunt. She closed her eyes, a fierce frown on her face. 
"I'm fixing to lay down and die," Lee-Daniel said, stretching theatrically, his pipe-cleaner arms straining. "You're street-legal in New York, right? How about you drive the bus for the next couple shifts?" 
"Seriously?" MacDiarmid said. His black hair was showing grey now, but his eyebrows were still fierce and black, his eyes still sharp in their nest of whiskey-cured crows-feet. 
It was rare for Lee-Daniel to cede the wheel to anyone else -- it was his damned company and he'd drive the damned bus. Lee-Daniel saw the shareholder confidence eroding before his eyes. 
"Just for a while, OK? Not permanent, just for a day or two, just long enough for me to get over the sleep-deficit and re-grow some stomach lining." It was hard being CEO of a mobile multinational. The shareholder oversight was murder. 
MacDiarmid looked closely at him, then smiled and gave him a burly man-hug that smelled of sandalwood soap and good liquor. "Yeah, of course, of course. I'll put it to the Board Meeting tonight at dinner. Can't have the CEO burning out at the wheel, that's what I'll say, don't worry about it, LD." 
We had a weepy dinner and Mom and Dad had each had a couple glasses of wine, which was a lot for them. I told them that I was getting sleepy, which was true, and mooched up to my room. I wasn't going to bed, though. I needed to get online and find out what was going on. I needed to talk to Jolu and Vanessa. I needed to get working on finding Darryl. 
I crept up to my room and opened the door. I hadn't seen my old bed in what felt like a thousand years. I lay down on it and reached over to my bedstand to grab my laptop. I must have not plugged it in all the way -- the electrical adapter needed to be jiggled just right -- so it had slowly discharged while I was away. I plugged it back in and gave it a minute or two to charge up before trying to power it up again. I used the time to get undressed and throw my clothes in the trash -- I never wanted to see them again -- and put on a clean pair of boxers and a fresh t-shirt. The fresh-laundered clothes, straight out of my drawers, felt so familiar and comfortable, like getting hugged by my parents. 
I would be driving up to Quetzal Manor in my old Toyota, and I dearly wished Steve could somehow materialize and be with me. In his absence, however, I convinced Lou to come along. I figured the change of scene would do him good, and I also wanted the security of having him with me, after the threatening phone call to Paula and the Hispanic thug who'd accosted me outside her apartment building. Be­sides, it'd just be a couple of hours. 
The next morning, as we trekked up Riverside Drive, then the Henry Hudson Parkway, the sky was a flawless blue and the wide Hudson seemed like an ardent highway leading into the heart of America. Still in elevated spirits over Sarah's momentary brush with consciousness, Lou had noticeably less of a hangover than was usual most mornings. Maybe he was looking forward to a little mental R&R. For my own part, I felt my curiosity growing. I'd gone to a lot of appoint­ments over the years, but rarely did I suspect the person I was going to see already knew more about me than I knew about them. 
"How about Ange?" 
"Her mother took her home. She wanted to wait here for you, but..." 
I understood. I felt full of understanding now, for how all the families of all the people who'd been locked away must feel. The courtroom was full of tears and hugs, and even the bailiffs couldn't stop it. 
"Let's go see Darryl," I said. "And let me borrow your phone?" 
I called Ange on the way to the hospital where they were keeping Darryl -- San Francisco General, just down the street from us -- and arranged to see her after dinner. She talked in a hurried whisper. Her mom wasn't sure whether to punish her or not, but Ange didn't want to tempt fate. 
There were two state troopers in the corridor where Darryl was being held. They were holding off a legion of reporters who stood on tiptoe to see around them and get pictures. The flashes popped in our eyes like strobes, and I shook my head to clear it. My parents had brought me clean clothes and I'd changed in the back seat, but I still felt gross, even after scrubbing myself in the court-house bathrooms. 
"Randall. My mother's name is Aurelia Randall; our names are Hannah Lucy Randall, Rebecca Rowena Randall, John Halifax Randall, Jenny Lind Randall, Marquis Randall, Fanny Ellsler Randall, and Miranda Randall. Mother named half of us and father the other half, but we didn't come out even, so they both thought it would be nice to name Mira after aunt Miranda in Riverboro; they hoped it might do some good, but it didn't, and now we call her Mira. We are all named after somebody in particular. Hannah is Hannah at the Window Binding Shoes, and I am taken out of Ivanhoe; John Halifax was a gentleman in a book; Mark is after his uncle Marquis de Lafayette that died a twin. (Twins very often don't live to grow up, and triplets almost never—did you know that, Mr. Cobb?) We don't call him Marquis, only Mark. Jenny is named for a singer and Fanny for a beautiful dancer, but mother says they're both misfits, for Jenny can't carry a tune and Fanny's kind of stiff-legged. Mother would like to call...  their middle names, but she says it wouldn't be fair to father. She says we must always stand up for father, because everything was against him, and he wouldn't have died if he hadn't had such bad luck. I think that's all there is to tell about us," she finished seriously. 
Dawna smiled, a predatory showing of teeth. “Let us start with an easy one. Sonrio. The degree to which you trust him is frankly insane. Where did you meet him?” She spoke as if she already knew the answer. 
“He saved me,” I said through stiff lips. Everything was starting to go off-balance, the world canting like it wanted to make me seasick, the numbers that always surrounded me bleeding together in a nonsensical, blurred mass. 
“Saved you?” said Dawna. “From what?” 
“From...” Flashes collided in my vision, as if I were in two places at once. Red tiles, and people in white coats. 
The roar of a helicopter exploded outside the windows. I felt barely aware of it even as it shook me apart, the thunder of it engulfing us, the beam of a searchlight blanching everything into stark whiteness. Dawna looked up. The muffled boom of a megaphone clogged the air, someone shouting unintelligibly, and out of the corner of my eye I saw more troops materialize at the door—why were they here, hadn’t she sent them all after Checker, had they found him?—but they were angry, their report grim, and Dawna whipped back toward me, her face filled with fury, and I thought, He did it, Checker did it! 
but I didn’t. I was feeling really tired all of a sudden, and a little dizzy. “This is dumb. I should go.” 
“No, tell me. I want to help.” He looked at me steadily, insist- ing that I look back at him. 
“You’re busy here.” It came out sounding like an accusation. 
He waved a hand, as if with that little motion he could push everyone in the basement to one side. He could do that, make a small gesture and have it mean so much. I felt a weird ache in the center of my chest, a soreness in my throat. 
“No problem. We’re done for the night, anyway.” 
“Yeah, but you probably want to hang out with your theatre friends.” 
“Not when you need me.” He glanced over at the purple- haired girl, who gave us a brilliant smile, then back at me, light dawning. “Do you know Bree?” 
“No. How would I know somebody like her?” 
“What does that mean?” 
“I don’t do theatre. I don’t socialize with college kids or what- ever.” 
“You socialize with me. I may not be a college kid, but I’m a whatever.” 
“Yeah, well she’s not, I mean - you know a lot of people. I don’t have a lot of friends. Not people like this, like her. You, know. 
“Well, ’cause those government people were here asking about her. When the other lady got snatched. I didn’t tell them nothin’.” He grinned at me. Half his teeth were missing, and the other half were yellow. “Are you her daughter? She never talked about family. Painful, it was. I could tell. I think the government murdered them.” 
“Why would you think that?” 
“Because I don’t trust them. They watch us, you know.” 
Well, yeah, but I still thought it highly unlikely the government had randomly murdered Martinez’s family. “I’m not her daughter,” I said. “I’m just a friend.” 
“Oh,” he said. “I have such respect for her people, you know. So in tune with nature all the time.” 
I wondered what Martinez would have thought of that. To be fair, I supposed mathematics was the greatest natural law of all. 
“The government doesn’t like her kind. I think that’s why she was in trouble. Maybe why she burned everything.” 
“Wait, what?” I said, my brain latching onto the one cogent piece of information. “She burned everything? What do you mean?” 
"This is your last chance, kid. Honest people don't have anything to hide." 
"I want to speak to an attorney." My parents would pay for it. All the FAQs on getting arrested were clear on this point. Just keep asking to see an attorney, no matter what they say or do. There's no good that comes of talking to the cops without your lawyer present. These two said they weren't cops, but if this wasn't an arrest, what was it? 
In hindsight, maybe I should have unlocked my phone for them. 
They re-shackled and re-hooded me and left me there. A long time later, the truck started to move, rolling downhill, and then I was hauled back to my feet. I immediately fell over. My legs were so asleep they felt like blocks of ice, all except my knees, which were swollen and tender from all the hours of kneeling. 
Hands grabbed my shoulders and feet and I was picked up like a sack of potatoes. There were indistinct voices around me. Someone crying. Someone cursing. 
I was carried a short distance, then set down and re-shackled to another railing. My knees wouldn't support me anymore and I pitched forward, ending up twisted on the ground like a pretzel, straining against the chains holding my wrists. 
She had a weakness for detective stories, and she was reading one now—reading it in the proper spirit, uncritical and absorbed. Whenever the train stopped at a station, she glanced up, and more than once, as she turned her head, she caught the stranger’s eye. She wondered, later on, why she hadn’t had some sort of premonition. People in stories always did. They always recognized at once the other people who were going to be in the story with them; but Lexy did not. Even toward the end of the journey, when she and the stranger were the only ones left in the car, she was not aware of any interest in him. 
Even when he, too, got out at Wyngate, Lexy was not specially interested. It was only a little after five o’clock, but it was dark already on that rainy afternoon, and the only thing that interested her just then was the sight of a solitary taxi drawn up beside the platform. Bag in hand, she hurried toward it, but the stranger got there before her. When she arrived, he was speaking to the driver. 
Rebecca never went across the bridge without bending over the rail to wonder and to ponder, and at this special moment she was putting the finishing touches on a poem. 
"I don't like 'the rush to Emma Jane,' and I can't think of anything else. Oh! what a smell of paint! Oh! it is ON me! Oh! it's all over my best dress! Oh I what WILL aunt Miranda say!" 
With tears of self-reproach streaming from her eyes, Rebecca flew up the hill, sure of sympathy, and hoping against hope for help of some sort. 
Mrs. Cobb took in the situation at a glance, and professed herself able to remove almost any stain from almost any fabric; and in this she was corroborated by uncle Jerry, who vowed that mother could git anything out. Sometimes she took the cloth right along with the spot, but she had a sure hand, mother had! 
The damaged garment was removed and partially immersed in turpentine, while Rebecca graced the festal board clad in a blue calico wrapper of Mrs. Cobb's. 
"Don't let it take your appetite away," crooned Mrs. Cobb. "I've got cream biscuit and honey for you. If the turpentine don't...  and warm suds. If they fail, father shall run over to Strout's and borry some of the stuff Marthy got in Milltown to take the currant pie out of her weddin' dress." 
She smelled of sweat, a sharp tang that smelled great. I knew I smelled of sweat too. My nose was pointed into the top of her head, and her face was right at my collarbone. She moved her hands to my neck and tugged. 
"Get down here, I didn't bring a stepladder," is what she said and I tried to smile, but it's hard to smile when you're kissing. 
Like I said, I'd kissed three girls in my life. Two of them had never kissed anyone before. One had been dating since she was 12. She had issues. 
None of them kissed like Ange. She made her whole mouth soft, like the inside of a ripe piece of fruit, and she didn't jam her tongue in my mouth, but slid it in there, and sucked my lips into her mouth at the same time, so it was like my mouth and hers were merging. I heard myself moan and I grabbed her and squeezed her harder. 
Slowly, gently, we lowered ourselves to the grass. We lay on our sides and clutched each other, kissing and kissing. The world disappeared so there was only the kiss. 
My hands found her butt, her waist. The edge of her t-shirt. Her warm tummy, her soft navel. They inched higher. She moaned too. 
She turned away from me slightly. “She was trying to do what was best for me.” 
“Arthur,” I said again, “You convince her. Convince her!” 
He’d shoved his hands into his pockets. “This what you want?” he said to Halliday. 
She nodded. 
Arthur faced me. “I ain’t going to go against Sonya’s wishes here. Way I see it, Doc Martinez ain’t giving that proof to no one, so it ain’t like the world’s in any of that sort of danger. If Sonya wants to respect her choice, I’m on board.” 
I was stunned. “And what if the Lancer finds Martinez? Is he just going to accept the fact that she doesn’t want to tell anyone about it?” 
“Lot of things can go wrong in this world,” said Arthur. “Ain’t mean we can’t all make our own choices. Ain’t mean Dr. Martinez can’t make this one.” He looked down at Halliday. “Martinez wronged you, but I get why you’d forgive her. I ain’t got a beef with her beyond that.” 
“You’re only saying that because you don’t understand what this means!” I accused Arthur. We couldn’t give this up. We couldn’t. I tried to temper my tone and played one last hole card. “Professor, if you’re so concerned about her, we should go after her. If we get to her first, then we can help her escape the Feds. She’s not going to know how to stay off the grid, but that’s one thing I’m exceptionally good at—I can help her.” 
“I’m not special,” I objected. 
It was a stupid thing to say. Tresting wasn’t an unobservant man, and my little display while rescuing him hadn’t been what one might call “discreet.” He didn’t answer right away, shifting gears with feeling and jamming down the accelerator to cut rudely onto the freeway. Then he said what I’d been dreading. 
“At my office. Not that I ain’t appreciative, but how the hell...?” 
I sighed. My usual response, that I’m really good at math, wasn’t going to suffice in blowing off a guy like Tresting. He seemed the type to worry at something until he got every last kernel of fact about it. 
“I jumped,” I said, deliberately obtuse. 
“Two stories.” 
“No, stupid. From the fire escape.” 
He digested that. “And pried off the bars.” 
“With my SIG. It’s a good crowbar. Metal frame, you know.” I was proud of myself for not making a dig about cheap polymer piece-of-crap Glocks. I’m the soul of tact. 
Tresting looked like he was searching for another question to ask. “Damn. If I hadn’t been there myself...” 
“Better to be prepared,” I said. “Just remember, in a gunfight the person who lives is the person who’s more willing to pull the trigger.” 
Pilar made a scrunched-up face like she had just tasted something bad, and Checker cleared his throat and spoke up. “Can I just say—that does not sound like the most, uh, sane approach to gun safety—” 
“Those who refuse to learn to handle firearms aren’t allowed to talk,” I said, crossing my arms. 
“For the last time, guns aren’t my—” 
“Don’t you have somewhere to be?” I said to Pilar, loudly, over Checker’s annoyed squawk. 
“Yes, uh—yes, I gotta go. I’ll be okay,” she added in Checker’s direction. “Good luck to you guys, yeah?” She gave me another smile, not quite as big as the last one, and squeezed by me out the door. 
Checker reordered his various tablets and laptops in her wake, then grabbed the long desktop and pulled his chair over to a large flat screen monitor. “For the last time, I don’t believe in guns, okay?” It was an argument we’d been having for months. “Story, end of.” 
“It’s this,” he said. “Do you mind if I smoke? Thanks!” 
He took a cigarette case from his pocket. As he struck a match, she could see his face very clearly in the sudden flame; and, for no reason at all, she pitied him. 
“It’s this,” he said again. “It’s about my sister.” 
“The sister you’ve never seen?” 
The sensation of dread had gone, and she felt only the liveliest interest. She wanted very much to hear about Captain Grey’s sister. 
“It wasn’t quite true to say I’d never seen her,” he explained, in his painstaking way. “I have, you know; but not since I was six years old and she was a baby. Our mother died when Muriel was born, out in India. An aunt took the poor little kid to the States with her, and I stayed out there with my father.” 
He drew on his cigarette for a minute. 
“She’s twenty-one now,” he said. “Last picture I had of her was when she was fourteen or so. A pretty kid—a bit more than pretty—what you’d call lovely.” 
He was silent for a little, staring into the fire. 
I tried to decide whether explosives expertise was worth risking getting mixed up with cops. 
“Russell,” said Arthur, as if he knew what I was thinking. 
“Take a picture of it for me,” I said. 
“I ain’t gonna—” 
“Take a picture, or I’m just going to get out.” 
I wasn’t sure I would, but Arthur didn’t know that. He swore under his breath as he felt around for his cell phone and then ducked back down with extreme care. It was nice to have a friend who would put his face up next to a car bomb for me, I reflected. 
The flash went off twice. Arthur eased back up and handed me the phone. 
The tangle of wires in the darkness under my seat didn’t actually look too complicated. I let my senses relax into the logic of it. If A, then B. If not B, then not A... 
“I’m good,” I said. 
“Russell, this ain’t worth risking your life. You can’t be sure—” 
“I’m sure enough,” I said. “But get out and walk about...” I squinted at the payload. Not large, just more than enough to take out the car, with probably even odds on a secondary explosion from the gas tank. “About thirty feet away.” Just to be safe. 
“’Cause I’m giving you the short version. Lot of other details didn’t add up. The...  I don’t think this is the first time Polk’s done it.” 
This was too unbelievable. “Wait, so now you think she’s a serial killer?” Jesus. I knew some serial killers. Courtney wasn’t one of them. 
“Maybe,” said Tresting doggedly. “Or maybe she’s someone’s patsy. I’m telling you, I spent months building up this case. Didn’t start out trying to make it nutso, I promise you.” 
“You just happened to see the bright light in the sky and realized your client had been abducted by aliens.” 
“You don’t gotta believe me,” he said. “Whatever, sweetheart. But that’s the lowdown of what I got.” 
“Mysterious crimes you say form a pattern.” 
“Yeah.” 
“Does this phantom Pithica group have a motive? Or do they just go around convincing biker gangs and driftless twenty-three-year-olds to kill random people?” 
“Right now they’re protecting themselves, obviously,” Tresting said. “And I got no idea what they’re trying to do. All I know is there’s too much evidence, spread over the last dozen years or so. This is real.” 
“But you did put it together. Seems our new friends think that’s a touch improbable.” 
I paused. “And that I definitely wouldn’t want to talk to her again.” 
Tresting sat back and digested that. I felt like brooding myself. This whole thing was far beyond anything I usually dealt with. We had another global organization after us now—another one with tremendous resources and no compunction against violence. Not to mention the whole “Dawna Polk, Functioning Psychic” thing... 
The twilight had nearly turned to full dark while we inched forward in traffic before Tresting spoke again. “Where you headed?” 
“I keep a few places around the city in case I need to get off the grid, but I figured we’d drive around and swap cars a few times first,” I answered. Go Cas, ever prepared. 
“Russell,” said Tresting, “I don’t think I can work with you.” 
Dammit. Not this again. Maybe I could make him understand. “Look, I know you don’t like Rio—” 
“No.” He rubbed his forehead with one hand, like someone with a migraine coming on. “Well, yeah, that’s an issue. But it ain’t him, Russell. It’s you.” 
"Reply if you get this, if you're on the run and alone. Or reply if you're in custody, being run by our friends on Gitmo, looking for a way to make the pain stop. If they've got you, you'll do what they tell you. I know that. I'll take that risk. 
"For you, M1k3y." 
"Wooooah," Liam breathed. "Duuuuude." I wanted to smack him. I turned to say something awful and cutting to him, but he was staring at me with eyes as big as saucers, looking like he wanted to drop to his knees and worship me. 
"Can I just say," Nate said, "can I just say that it is the biggest honor of my entire life to help you? Can I just say that?" 
I was blushing now. There was nothing for it. These two were totally star-struck, even though I wasn't any kind of star, not in my own mind at least. 
"Can you guys --" I swallowed. "Can I have some privacy here?" 
They slunk out of the room like bad puppies and I felt like a tool. I typed fast. 
"I got away, Zeb. And I'm on the run. I need all the help I can get. I want to end this now." I remembered to take Masha's phone out of my pocket and tickle it to keep it from going to sleep. 
<wheeze> I know, it doesn't make any sense. 
Only it did. Dang it, I knew, I knew something like this would happen. 
<zen> What about Zip? 
<wheeze> They got him too. 
I think he’s a rat, I started to type, but I deleted it. What if I couldn’t trust Wheeze? What if someone else was getting these messages? Then I got pissed off and typed it again. 
<zen> He's a rat. 
There was another long pause. Wheeze was doing what I’d done weeks ago - running through everything Zip had said, every- thing he had done. 
Zip had crashed on a couch at their house after a protest and had been living there ever since. Everybody loved him. He was older than Wilson and a lot more of a take-charge kind of guy. 
more secret. The late night conversations they always had about how messed up everything was and how things should be differ- ent were getting real. 
Zip was taking their progressive political baloney and convinc- ing them that they should do something about it. Make stuff hap- pen, not just talk about it. 
Sleep had never been particularly restful for me, but in the last two years the nightmares had become worse and worse. More detailed and more crippling. When I wasn’t on the job, I couldn’t hope to stay asleep for more than half an hour before I woke, tangled and sweating and hyperventilating. Getting blackout drunk was the only thing that helped. 
And now I was having trouble while working. Work had always focused me, kept me sane, but now... 
I wasn’t stupid; I knew why it was happening. Two years ago was when we’d gone up against Pithica, when a psychic had rooted through my brain like it was her own personal rummage sale. I didn’t think she had taken any particular care not to break anything. 
It was what it was. Just something I had to deal with now, I supposed. 
I checked my phone, but I’d barely managed to stay sacked out for ninety minutes and Checker hadn’t texted yet. I thought about going to pick up some more armaments, but seeing as how I was trying my best to get captured, I probably didn’t even want to bring my Colt, since they’d just end up taking it. 
“Whatever,” he muttered. “In for a penny, I guess. Pithica’s some government project or other.” 
“I know that. What else?” 
He cut his eyes at me suspiciously. 
“I did some digging after you mentioned it while pointing a gun barrel at my face,” I explained impatiently. “What else?” 
“It’s buried deep. I got a tech guy. He can only find bits and pieces. But it’s far-reaching. My client’s husband, he was a journalist. Started digging into some things. Political decisions, that sort of stuff, ones that didn’t make sense. Nutso crime spikes. Chances are they could’ve left him alive; I don’t think he ever saw the connection.” 
“What connection?” 
“Pithica. Just the word. Buried deep. Didn’t find it linked up to all the things he been looking at, but it was enough to be, uh, a ‘statistically significant correlation.’ Or so say my tech guy.” 
His tech guy must be good. Anton had been able to find almost nothing. “And you think Pithica killed him. The journalist.” 
“Sounds crazy, but yeah. Some of what we found, it was a pattern—it’s too similar, the MO of his murder. Can’t prove it, not yet, but his death’s got Pithica all over it.” 
They gave him a bunny-suit to wear into the heart of Viktor. First he passed through a pair of double-doors, faintly positively pressurized, sterile air that ruffled his hair on the way in. The building was low-slung, nondescript brown brick, no windows. It could have been a water sterilization plant or a dry-goods warehouse. The inside was good tile, warm colors with lots of reds and browns down low, making the walls look like they were the inside of a kiln. The building's interior was hushed, and a pair of alert-looking plainclothes security men watched them very closely as they changed into the bunny suits, loose micropore coveralls with plastic visors. Each one had a small, self-contained air-circ system powered by a wrist canister, and when a security man helpfully twisted the valve open, Leon noted that there were clever jets that managed to defog the visor without drying out his eyeballs. 
"That be enough for you, Ria?" the taller of the two security men said. He was dressed like a college kid who'd been invited to his girlfriend's place for dinner: smart slacks a little frayed at the cuffs, a short-sleeved, pressed cotton shirt that showed the bulge of his substantial chest and biceps and neck. 
“How are the elections coming?” Van said, once he’d licked the wrapper clean. 
“Dunno,” Felix said. “Haven’t checked in a while.” He’d been winning by a slim margin a few hours before. Not having his laptop was a major handicap when it came to stuff like this. Up in the cages, there were a dozen more like him, poor bastards who’d left the house on Der Tag without thinking to snag something WiFi-enabled. 
“You’re going to get smoked,” Sario said, sliding in next to them. He’d become famous in the center for never sleeping, for eavesdropping, for picking fights in RL that had the ill-considered heat of a Usenet flamewar. “The winner will be someone who understands a couple of fundamental facts.” 
He held up a fist, then ticked off his bullet points by raising a finger at a time. “Point: The terrorists are using the Internet to destroy the world, and we need to destroy the Internet first. Point: Even if I’m wrong, the whole thing is a joke. We’ll run out of generator-fuel soon enough. Point: Or if we don’t, it will be because the old world will be back and running, and it won’t give a crap about your new world. Point: We’re gonna run out of food before we run out of shit to argue about or reasons not to go outside. We have the chance to do something to help the world recover: we can kill the net and cut it off as a tool for bad guys. Or we can rearrange some more deck chairs on the bridge of your personal Titanic in the service of some sweet dream about an ‘independent cyberspace.’” 
"So they don't actually know where he is, right?" I was still trying to breathe. 
"As of this morning. If they did they wouldn't have called up here." He walked over and set the tray down on a rustic table next to the bed. "I wouldn't worry too much about it. He's committed no crime. They just want to make sure you realize your presence has not gone unnoticed." 
Dear God. What had I dragged Steve into? If they found him, what would they do? I could only pray he was deft enough to elude them. If anybody could . . . 
Then I looked at the tray. An empty syringe was there. Also, there was a large bowl containing some kind of soup. I was finally growing ravenous, but still . . . 
"What's this for?" I indicated the syringe. 
"I just need to take a little blood for some tests. Don't worry, it won't hurt a bit." 
Hold on. How far do I have to play along to stay in his chess game? 
Then I glanced down again at the tray. "And what's in that...  so I've had Marcelina prepare you a healthy broth of soy extract and buckwheat and rainforest herbs that—" 
“Of course I’m serious ! Zen, dammit. I’m trying to explain why you need to be at this meeting. It’s the only chance we have — ” 
I clicked my phone off. For a few minutes I couldn’t see any- thing through my tears, but I kept pacing, saying bad words, trying not to say them too loud because I didn’t want to attract attention, 
but I could see faces peering at me from inside the cafe. I walked to the corner and kicked a newsstand, which was loud, and the base of a lamppost, which hurt. I turned around, embarrassed and angry and limping because my toes were aching. 
Then I pulled out my phone and scrolled through my contacts. 
There weren’t many. I hesitated and...  cell phone number. It rang and rang before she answered faindy. “Hello? Oh for Pete’s sake, how does this thing . . . hello?” Her voice was louder this time. 
“It’s Zen. Wilson’s sister.” 
“What’s wrong?” I didn’t answer right away, so she added, 
“Are you all right?” 
I took a shaky breath. “No.” 
“Are the police — ” 
“It’s nothing like that. It’s family stuff.” I paused to wipe my nose and clear my throat. “I need a place to stay tonight. Can I sleep on your couch?” 
"The subjunctive mood, past perfect tense of the verb 'to know.'" 
"Oh, it is the saddest tense," sighed Rebecca with a little break in her voice; "nothing but IFS, IFS, IFS! And it makes you feel that if they only HAD known, things might have been better!" 
Miss Dearborn had not thought of it before, but on reflection she believed the subjunctive mood was a "sad" one and "if" rather a sorry "part of speech." 
"Give me some more examples of the subjunctive, Rebecca, and that will do for this afternoon," she said. 
"If I had not loved mackerel I should not have been thirsty;" said Rebecca with an April smile, as she closed her grammar. "If thou hadst loved me truly thou wouldst not have stood me up in the corner. If Samuel had not loved wickedness he would not have followed me to the water pail." 
"And if Rebecca had loved the rules of the school she would have controlled her thirst," finished Miss Dearborn with a kiss, and the two parted friends. 
The little schoolhouse on the hill had its moments of triumph as well as its scenes of tribulation, but it was fortunate that Rebecca had her books and her new acquaintances to keep her interested and occupied, or life would have gone heavily with her that first summer in Riverboro. She tried to like her aunt Miranda (the idea of loving her had been given up at the moment of meeting), but failed ignominiously in the attempt. She was a very faulty and passionately human child, with no aspirations towards being an angel of the house, but she had a sense of duty and a desire to be good,—respectably, decently good. Whenever she fell below this self-imposed standard she was miserable. She did not like to be under her aunt's roof, eating bread, wearing clothes, and studying books provided by her, and dislike her so heartily all the time. She felt instinctively that this was wrong and mean, and whenever the feeling of remorse was strong within her she made a desperate effort to please her grim and difficult relative. 
"I told them we could only stay for a minute," she went on. I sensed she was reluctant, but felt we had no choice. 
The last thing I wanted to do was this. 
"Marcelina, can't you tell them we'll come back later?" 
"It's . . . it's important." She was beckoning for me. "Please." 
Well, I thought, this could give me the time I need, the personal moment, to get through to her. Even after I locate Sarah, spiriting her out isn't going to be simple. I've got to make Marcelina understand what's really going on, then get her to help us. 
As we headed through the yard, the women smiled, then politely led us under the thatch overhang and into the hut. They both were short and Maya-sturdy, with white shifts and broad faces, and they exuded a confident intensity in their bearing, a powerful sense of self-knowledge. I tried...  stared at me as though they'd never heard the language. Then I remembered my first attempt to ask about Sarah. The women hadn't understood me then either. Or had they? 
The room they ushered us into had no windows, but there was cool, shadowy morning light filtering through the up­right wooden slats of the walls, laying dim stripes across the earthen floor. A cooking fire smoldered in a central hearth, and from the smoke-blackened roof beams dangled dried gourds, bundles of tobacco, netted bags of onions and squash, and several leaf-wrapped blocks of salt. The room smelled of ancient smoke, sweet and pungent. 
I laughed. The sound was weird, and it drew me back into my body, back to the present. I laughed and laughed. I'd had the worst that they could throw at me, and I'd survived it, and I'd beaten them , beaten them for months, showed them up as chumps and despots. I'd won . 
I let my bladder cut loose. It was sore and full anyway, and no time like the present. 
The ocean swept me away. 
When morning came, two efficient, impersonal guards cut the bindings off of my wrists and ankles. I still couldn't walk -- when I stood, my legs gave way like a stringless marionette's. Too much time in one position. The guards pulled my arms over their shoulders and half-dragged/half-carried me down the familiar corridor. The bar codes on the doors were curling up and dangling now, attacked by the salt air. 
I got an idea. "Ange!" I yelled. "Darryl!" I yelled. My guards yanked me along faster, clearly disturbed but not sure what to do about it. "Guys, it's me, Marcus! Stay free!" 
Behind one of the doors, someone sobbed. Someone else cried out in what sounded like Arabic. Then it was cacophony, a thousand different shouting voices. 
“So what do we do?” asked Checker. 
“ We don’t do anything,” I said. “You get out of here. I’m going back to LA.” 
“Cas,” said Rio. 
“We have to bait them,” I insisted. “They have to believe they’ve got our scent until we can get the notifications out. That’s all that matters right now.” 
“Abort,” said Rio. 
“No.” I turned on him, talking very fast. “What’s going to happen if we do? If we run? What will their next step be? Bombing the LA metropolitan area into the ground and hoping they’ll kill us somewhere in there? As long as we’re a threat, they won’t stop coming after us. Which means we’ve got only two options—either we come to them and save them the trouble, or we make good on our threat, or we do both before they mow down anyone else in their way.” 
I paused, out of breath. 
“Do you have a plan?” said Rio, his baritone quiet in the shadowy darkness. 
One was forming in my head even as we spoke. It was dangerous. Scratch that, it was insane. And it very well might not work. But I already knew I was going to go for it anyway. 
“Who?” cried Lexy. 
“Hush! The doctor!” answered Mrs. Royce. “You could ’a’ knocked me down with a feather!” 
Feathers would not have knocked down the sturdy Lexy, however. On the contrary, she was pleased and interested by this utterly unexpected visit. The sinister doctor here, in this house, and asking for her! She started promptly toward the stairs. 
“Miss Moran!” cautioned the landlady, in a whisper. “Don’t tell him nothing!” 
“Tell him!” said Lexy. “But I haven’t anything to tell!” 
“Well, you’d best be very careful!” said Mrs. Royce. 
With this solemn warning in her ears, Lexy descended the stairs. She saw Dr. Quelton standing in the hall, hat in hand, waiting for her. The doctor was rather a disappointment. He was not the dark, sinister figure he should have been. He was a big man, powerfully built, with a clumsy stoop to his tremendous shoulders. His heavy, clean-shaven face would have been an agreeable one if it had not been for its expression, but that expression was not at all an alarming or dangerous one. It was an expression of the most utter and hopeless boredom. 
"That ain't the point, exactly," Russo said, shifting uncomfortably. "Thing is, Roma could do good distribution for you. We work with a lot of people." 
"Then why not submit a formal proposal? In writing. I'm in charge and that's how I do business. If your numbers work, then we can talk." 
"Just trying to be helpful." He glared at me, then seemed to dismiss my presence. I disappeared from his radar as though lifted away by an alien spacecraft, and he turned back to David. "You know, Dave, me and you've kinda drifted apart lately. Old friends oughtn'ta do that. We ought to keep more in touch. I think we get along okay." 
In other words, get this pushy broad out of my face. 
"It's just business, Nicky," David said, trying to conjure an empty smile. "Business and pleasure don't always mix." 
Yes! David, tell the creep to leave us alone. Tell him. 
"Doing business with me ain't a pleasure?" Nicky Russo asked, hurt filling his voice. He'd brought out a large Havana and was rolling it in between his thumb and forefinger. "I figured we was best friends. Paisans ." 
“Hey, you all right?” Tresting called. 
“Yeah,” I said, keeping my mind whirring on my succinct circuit and another Riemann-Zeta root in the background. “You?” 
“Yeah.” 
He left off speaking for a minute as the guards hustled him to the cell next to mine; they cut his hands free as they had done for me and locked him in impersonally. Once they had left again, Tresting turned toward me, rubbing his wrists. “I’m sorry,” he said, all weighty and heavy and undoubtedly sincere. “So sorry. My fault, all of it.” 
“Not really,” I answered. I honestly didn’t blame him; I had known full well what I gambled when I went in after him. “They must’ve hidden somehow till I got there. She obviously had this planned.” 
“Not what I meant,” he said. “Knew it was a setup. I shouldn’t’ve...just got desperate. Didn’t want to lose the lead, you know?” 
“I know,” I said. “It’s okay.” 
“No, it ain’t. I heard what she said. They set the trap for you, but on your lonesome, you might not’ve been dumb enough to fall in. Was me got us caught.” 
Grampa applauded briefly, sardonically. "Because holding your nose and taking your medicine is awful. Because boredom is a suppurating wound on the mind. Because self-discipline is over-rated. You getting all this, Sean?" 
But Sean was watching his father, who was staring in fascinated horror at Grampa. Nauseous regret suffused Sean, as he saw his father's composure crumble. How many times had he tried to shatter that deadly cool? And here he'd done it. He'd really done it. 
Still looking at his father, Sean said, "Do you ever wonder how it feels to rank below oblivion in someone's book?" 
Grampa spread his hands on the table. "I can't help it if you take it personally." 
Sean's father reeled back, and Sean swallowed a throb of anger. "Of course not, Grampa. I understand. It's a reflex. The world's full of sops who'll take offence at any little thing" -- Lara shriveling under the heat of his tongue, and him still watching the TV over her shoulder -- "but it's a reflex . It's not conscious. It's no one's fault ." 
She dressed in fine printer-fresh clothes and burped a printer-fresh belch. The gravy taste wafted gassily into her mouth. 
The wizard had rolled up one of the sofas and unrolled a big screen in its place, the kind of thing she used to love to play games on, in the dreamlike fantasy of yore. 
YOU’RE DEAF? 
She nodded. “I have hearing aids, from a bomb. They weren’t working when I got out of bed this morning. No warning. They went like that.” She snapped her fingers. 
Some movement caught the corner of her eye and she spun around. There were four more people in the living room, people she hadn’t met before though she assumed that they belonged to the distant voices she’d heard on her earlier visits. They had the well-fed look of Ana and the wizard, and a couple of them were obviously foreign. The documentarians. One of them was pointing a camera at her. She bared her gap-tooth grin at the camera and faked a step toward it. The camera-woman cringed back and she laughed nastily. 
“Your cameras work. Your printers work. You’re not losing the infowar the way we do. That’s because there’s a way to build things to resist the infowar agents, right? That’s why the enemy trench-busters don’t fail the way our weapons do.” 
Scott Ventri, key grip, took charge of handling the gear, dictating which equipment got loaded on first. I watched long enough to make sure everything was going okay, and then I joined Arlene, old friend and queen of outrageous makeup, on the other elevator. 
"You notice it?" she whispered. The door had just closed. 
"Notice what?" I knew full well what she was talking about. But it just felt too bizarre. 
"Those kids could almost be twins. That little boy last week, and this girl. They look just alike. It's spooky." 
"Guess their parents couldn't figure out what was causing those pregnancies. So they just kept having more babies." I decided to try to insert some humor, deflect the conversation. "Maybe we should tell Paula and Carly." 
"Very dumb." Arlene bit at a long, red, false fingernail, a perennial habit for as long as I'd known her. "We should mind our own business, that's what we should do." 
"Works for me. But it also proves we were smart not to shoot any footage of the kids. The whole world would realize something's funny." Then I had an idea. "Want to come downtown to my place after we unload? Have some deep thoughts over what all this means?" 
“There’s nothing to talk out,” she said. 
“It’s not fair .” Isaac’s voice was anguished. “After everything I went through—” 
She snorted. “That’s enough of that,” she said. 
“Um,” Robbie said. “Dive site up ahead. You two really need to check out each others’ gear.” Of course they were qualified, you had to at least install the qualifications before you could get onto the Free Spirit and the human-shells had lots of muscle memory to help. So they were technically able to check each other out, that much was sure. They were palpably reluctant to do so, though, and Robbie had to give them guidance. 
“I’ll count one-two-three-wallaby,” Robbie said. “Go over on ‘wallaby.’ I’ll wait here for you—there’s not much current today.” 
With a last huff, they went over the edge. Robbie was once again alone with his thoughts. The feed from their telemetry was very low-bandwidth when they were underwater, though he could get the high-rez when they surfaced. He watched them on his radar, first circling the ship—it was very...  then exploring its decks, finally swimming below the decks, LED torches glowing. There were some nice reef-sharks down below, and some really handsome, giant...  around them, puttering back and forth to keep overtop of them. That occupied about one ten-millionth of his consciousness. Times like this, he often slowed himself right down, ran so cool that he was barely awake. 
If "nobleness enkindleth nobleness," so does enthusiasm beget enthusiasm, and so do wit and talent enkindle wit and talent. Alice Robinson proposed that the school should sing Three Cheers for the Red, White, and Blue! and when they came to the chorus, all point to Rebecca's flag. Dick Carter suggested that Living Perkins and Rebecca Randall should sign their names to their pictures, so that the visitors would know who drew them. Huldah Meserve asked permission to cover the largest holes in the plastered walls with boughs and fill the water pail with wild flowers. Rebecca's mood was above and beyond all practical details. She sat silent, her heart so full of grateful joy that she could hardly remember the words of her dialogue. At recess she bore herself modestly, notwithstanding her great triumph, while in the general atmosphere of good will the Smellie-Randall hatchet was buried and Minnie gathered maple boughs and covered the ugly stove with them, under Rebecca's direction. 
Miss Dearborn dismissed the morning session at quarter to twelve, so that those who lived near enough could go home for a change of dress. Emma Jane and Rebecca ran nearly every step of the way, from sheer excitement, only stopping to breathe at the stiles. 
“Uh, sure.” Thinking, Crikey, if that’s what the guards outside were like, how’m I gonna get past the inside guards? 
“You’re the best, girl. OK, enter the cottage and kill everyone there.” 
“Uh, sure.” 
She wished she had another scrying scroll in inventory so she could get a look inside the cottage before she beat its door in, but she was fresh out of scrolls and just about everything else. 
She kicked the door in and her fingers danced. She’d killed four of her adversaries before she even noticed that they weren’t fighting back. 
In fact, they were generic avatars, maybe even non-player characters. They moved like total noobs, milling around in the little cottage. Around them were heaps of shirts, thousands and thousands of them. A couple of the noobs were sitting in the back, incredibly, still crafting more shirts, ignoring the swordswoman who’d just butchered four of their companions. 
She took a careful look at all the avatars in the room. None of them were armed. Tentatively, she walked up to one of the players and cut his head off. The player next to him moved clumsily to one side and she followed him. 
He keeps himself from panic, from sounding panicked. "Becker, I need orientation on this deck." 
"What do you see?" 
A bunch of dead guys. 
"I just climbed off the ladder. It seems to be cognate to the ladder position on Omicron." First things first, he thinks. "You'd better direct me to the reactor control room to start. We'll want to confirm that they're still operating and warn them about trouble. How close are your guys?" 
"They're on the way. Two or three minutes at most, but the lifts are jammed with passengers shuttling between parties." 
Good for them. 
Kilgore grunts. "You might tell them to hurry, Chief, or they won't have anyone left to rescue."  "What?" It's as close to screaming as Becker is likely to get. 
Ray glares at Kilgore, makes a slicing motion across his neck. Cut it out. "We've got a few casualties," he says carefully. "Give me some direction to Reactor Control." 
A few maddening moments pass, and Ray imagines Becker sifting through the graphical schematics on the checkpoint's terminal. "Turn right down the main corridor off the ladder. Take the first gangway on your left and go about halfway down. That entire gangway is lead shielded and the walls are about two meters thick, so all the doors on your left should be deeply recessed. It's Section 44, but you should know it when you see it. 
“Poor lamb!” she whispered. “Ain’t she pretty?” 
Lexy wet a towel and passed it over that unconscious face again and again. Mrs. Royce watched, spellbound; for the dark and haggard stranger was passing away before her very eyes, and some one else was coming into life—some one quite young and— The closed lids fluttered, and then opened. 
“Lexy!” murmured the metamorphosed one. 
“I’m here, Caroline!” said Lexy, with a stifled sob. “Everything’s all right, dear! Don’t worry—just rest!” 
“I can’t, Lexy! I can’t!” she answered, and from her eyes, now closed again, tears came running slowly down her cheeks. 
“Yes, you can!” said Lexy. “We’ll—” 
“Supposing I get her some nice hot soup?” whispered Mrs. Royce, and, at a nod from Lexy, she was off again. 
Caroline reached out and caught Lexy’s hand. 
“Oh, Lexy, Lexy!” she said. “Can you ever forgive me?” 
“No!” her friend replied cheerfully. “Never! But don’t bother now. You can tell me later, when you feel better.” 
“I’ll never, never feel better till I’ve told you! Oh, Lexy, I knew yesterday, and I didn’t tell you! Oh, Lexy, Lexy, I don’t understand! I want to tell you! I want you to help me!” 
He started to turn onto a gravel lane, but swerved back onto the road. “Crap. It’s a house. Didn’t he say it was near the bridge?” 
“Yeah, but none of the buildings near the bridge were bait shops,” Bree said, making it sound like they were having a fight. 
“That bend in the road, up ahead?” I said. “That’s the spot where the road is closest to the rail line. Might be where Wheeze would look for a place to hide.” 
“If anyone sees me driving this slow, it’ll look really suspi- cious,” Nikko grumbled. 
“Wait. What’s that?” Bree pointed to a spot where the gravel shoulder widened. “A driveway?” 
Nikko pulled onto the gravel, turning the car so that the head- lights illuminated a shack. “Could that be it? It looks kind of . . .” 
“Like a bait shop closed for the winter.” Bree burrowed into her bag and handed out flashlights. “Borrowed from my room- mates. They won’t notice.” 
Nikko drove in a little further so a few scraggly bushes screened the car from the road. He killed the lights and shut off the engine, leaving us in darkness except for some stars that peeked through the tree branches overhead and a faint glow from city lights to the north. We climbed out and, by unspoken arrangement, kept our flashlight beams pointed low and away from the road. We followed our pools of light toward the shack, 
A year had elapsed since Adam Ladd's prize had been discussed over the teacups in Riverboro. The months had come and gone, and at length the great day had dawned for Rebecca,—the day to which she had been looking forward for five years, as the first goal to be reached on her little journey through the world. School-days were ended, and the mystic function known to the initiated as "graduation" was about to be celebrated; it was even now heralded by the sun dawning in the eastern sky. Rebecca stole softly out of bed, crept to the window, threw open the blinds, and welcomed the rosy light that meant a cloudless morning. Even the sun looked different somehow,—larger, redder, more important than usual; and if it were really so, there was no member of the graduating class who would have thought it strange or unbecoming, in view of all the circumstances. Emma Jane stirred on her pillow, woke, and seeing Rebecca at the window, came and knelt on the floor beside her. "It's going to be pleasant!" she sighed gratefully. "If it wasn't wicked, I could thank the Lord, I'm so relieved in mind! Did you sleep?" 
"I'm a little surprised by the curriculum. It's quite advanced." 
"Some of our children are quite advanced. Others lag significantly behind the educational level they should have attained. Not all situations are ideal, as you can imagine, but all of the children in the Trust have great potential. We look for that potential and help them develop it. Perhaps it is not the ideal of mother, father, 
siblings, but it is better in many cases than the lives we cull them from. But we attempt to give them the  facsimile of family as we go along. " 
Ray feels a flush of embarrassment. "I didn't intend to sound critical." 
"But you wondered about their emotional well-being, these orphans on their way to a strange land amongst strange people." 
"Sure. I mean, kids are resilient, but losing your parents is a pretty big blow to try to bounce back from." 
Amah nods. "For some. Others have been without parents, comforts, love for several years. Those cases are more difficult, and it takes longer for the colony to embrace them-or for them to embrace the colony." 
“That’s about all there is. She said she would meet me here in Wyngate, because that’s the nearest station of the main line to some little place where a nurse or a governess of hers lived.” 
“Miss Craigie!” 
“Never heard the name. Anyhow, she wanted to go there after we got married, and—I wish you wouldn’t look like that!” 
“But I’m so awfully sorry for you!” 
“It was pretty hard, at first,” he said; “but—well, you see, I’ve thought a bit about it, and after all I’m glad we didn’t get married.” 
“Oh!” cried Lexy, profoundly shocked. “But that’s—” 
“Because I—you see, she didn’t—well, I don’t think she really liked me very much.” 
Lexy was astounded. 
“Fact!” said he. “What she wanted was romance, and all that sort of thing. She wanted to get away from home, and I was the only chance she had; so there you are!” 
“That wasn’t very fair to you!” 
“I don’t blame her,” he said thoughtfully. “We were both—but what’s the sense of talking about all that? The thing is to find her!” 
Lexy agreed to that promptly. 
"Do you have, like, an exclusive arrangement with him?" 
"No, no, nothing like that." Her hands were digging through the bag, looking for something. 
"Would you think about carrying these?" 
She'd clearly bound them herself. Someone had taught her to really sew, her Gran, maybe. You could see it in the neat stitching that ran the binding and the spine, holding together the nylon and the denim, taken from a pair of jeans, a backpack. The end-papers were yellowed page three girls from the Star, strategically cropped just below the nipples. He'd been reading The Story So Far ever since those first six copies had sold out in forty eight hours, and he had an eye for the table of contents now, and he flipped to each volume's list, giving them a long look. 
"Who's Chloe Autumn?" 
She didn't look down, looked at him with a look that was totally unapologetic. "I am," she said. "It's one way to get my stuff into print, innit?" She grinned. It was a very grown up grin. 
"What do you think you want for them?" 
He approached the R Peeds cautiously, using his copper’s override to make the dumb little positronic brain in the emergency exit nearest their last known position open up for him without tipping off the building’s central brain. 
He crept along a service corridor, heading for a door that exited into the mall. He put one hand on the doorknob and the other on his badge, took a deep breath and stepped out. 
A mall security guard nearly jumped out of his skin as he emerged. He reached for his pepper-spray and Arturo swept it out of his hand as he flipped his badge up and showed it to the man. “Police,” said, in the cop-voice, the one that worked on everyone except his daughter and his ex-wife and the bloody robots. 
“Sorry,” the guard said, recovering his pepper spray. He had an Oceanic twang in his voice, something Arturo had been hearing more and more as the crowded islands of the South Pacific boiled over UNATS. 
Before them, in a pile, were many dead robots: both of the R Peed units, a pair of mall-sweepers, a flying cambot, and a squat, octopus-armed maintenance robot, lying in a lifeless tangle. Some of them were charred around their seams, and there was the smell of fried motherboards in the air. 
"A new what?" Leon whispered. They were still chest to chest, quivering with angry body-language, but Leon let another part of his mind deal with that. 
"A new monster," Brautigan said. "Gone to his vat at a mere 103. Youngest ever. Unplanned." He looked up, down, left, right. "An accident. Impossible accident. Impossible, but he had it, which means?" 
"It was no accident," Leon said. "Police?" It was impossible not to fall into Brautigan's telegraphed speech-style. That was a persuasion thing, too, he knew. Once you talked like him, you'd sympathize with him. And vice-versa, of course. They were converging on a single identity. Bonding. It was intense, like make-up sex for co-workers. 
"He's a sovereign...  island, one of those little Baltic countries. On the other side of the international vowel line. Mxlplx or something." 
"Dead people become corporations. They get managed by boards of directors who act predictably, if not rationally. Living people, they're flamboyant . Seismic. Unpredictable. But. On the other hand." He waggled his eyebrows. 
The Xnetters were easy to spot, too: we all played Clockwork Plunder whenever we had some spare time (or didn't feel like doing our homework), and we had pretty tricked-out characters with cool weapons and booby-traps on the keys sticking out of our backs that would cream anyone who tried to snatch them and leave us to wind down. 
When I appeared, a system status message displayed M1K3Y HAS ENTERED PATCHEYE PETE'S -- WELCOME SWABBIE WE OFFER FAIR TRADE FOR FINE BOOTY. All the players on the screen froze, then they crowded around me. The chat exploded. I thought about turning on my voice-paging and grabbing a headset, but seeing how many people were trying to talk at once, I realized how confusing that would be. Text was much easier to follow and they couldn't misquote me (heh heh). 
I'd scouted the location before with Ange -- it was great campaigning with her, since we could both keep each other wound up. There was a high-spot on a pile of boxes of salt-rations that I could stand on and be seen from anywhere in the market. 
“We’re good,” Jason agreed. “I checked.” 
“Okay, so basically a friend of mine who is an awesomely good actor is talking to the FBI right now,” I said, “offering to help them set up a sting on a guy who will walk right into their trap. Which would be bad, except the guy they’re trapping deserves to be in trouble.” 
“Because?” Sarahh wanted to know. 
“Because he uses his position in activist circles to assault women.” 
Zeke asked, “You have actual proof of this?” 
A million words jammed together in my mouth that I couldn’t get out, like when you hit too many keys on an old-fashioned typewriter and they get stuck together. Proof? Like, women are supposed to take pictures when they’re being attacked or it didn’t happen? I wanted to punch that big nose of his. 
“She knows,” Sarahh said. And that was that. Zeke looked like he wanted to keep arguing about it, but then he looked at me and gave a small shrug. Okay. He’d take my word for it. Barely. 
My phone gave a loud blurp. 
<nikko> done <Zen> how' d it go? 
"Maybe he is, maybe he isn't," Adele said. "But it makes me feel better. He's what I've got left. If you'd like, I'll wait with the car so you can go in and look for your father." 
"No," Sean said. "That's all right. Dad'll come out for a cab. He's not the sort to dawdle." 
"I like a decisive man. That's why I talked to you by the pool -- you just jumped in, because you wanted a swim." 
"Adele, that was stupid . It was like swimming in a urine sample." 
"Same difference. I like a man who can make up his mind. That's what Ethan's father was like: decisive." 
"You'll like my Dad," Sean said. He drummed his fingers on the wheel, then lowered and raised his window. He whistled tunelessly through his teeth. Adele gave him a considering stare and he stopped, and started in on powers of two in his head. 
"There he is," Sean said, 224 later. 
Sean had barely been in Florida for three days, but it was long enough that his father seemed as pale as freezer-burned ice cream. Sean checked the traffic in his rear-view, then pulled across the waiting area to where his father stood, acing out an irate cabbie for the spot. 
“We don’t really go back to land,” he said. “We get at-sea resupplies. We dock maybe once a year to effect repairs. If you want to go to land, though, we could call for a water taxi or something.” 
“No, no!” she said. “That’s just perfect. Floating forever out here. Perfect.” She sighed a heavy sigh. 
“Did you have a nice dive?” 
“Um, Robbie? An uplifted reef tried to kill me.” 
“But before the reef attacked you.” Robbie didn’t like thinking of the reef attacking her, the panic when he realized that she wasn’t a mere human shell, but a human. 
“Before the reef attacked me, it was fine.” 
“Do you dive much?” 
“First time,” she said. “I downloaded the certification before leaving the noosphere along with a bunch of stored dives on these sites.” 
“Oh, you shouldn’t have done that!” Robbie said. “The thrill of discovery is so important.” 
“I’d rather be safe than surprised,” she said. “I’ve had enough surprises in my life lately.” 
Robbie waited patiently for her to elaborate on this, but she didn’t seem inclined to do so. 
It was an emergency. There was an even tramping of feet ahead of him, behind him, to his left and right. He stood, slowly, and put his hands in the air. 
"I'm not a combatant," he said, loudly, but in a steady voice. 
He walked toward the bus, hands still in the air. "I am not a combatant," he said again. A laser dot climbed his toe, his leg, centered on his gut. He looked down at it. 
"They will shoot you, you know," Cobra said. "They shoot. They think they're playing cowboys and indians." He sounded very calm. 
"I am not a combatant," he said again, taking another step forward. A second red dot joined the first, climbing his leg and resting within inches of the first, dancing and bobbing like a firefly. From the woods,...  Lee-Daniel said. 
"They don't speak English when they don't want to," Cobra said. "If I were you, I'd get down and stay down." Then he yelled...  him tittered nervously. 
"Cobra's making them mad," she said, giggling again. 
Lee-Daniel turned around slowly, getting away from the harsh white light. Green blobs swam in his vision. He began, very gently, to sink to his knees, when out of the corner of his eye, he spotted Elaine and two of her crew, in silhouette, up in the boughs of a maple that they must have climbed as soon as the SQ arrived on the scene. More steps from the brush, the light coming closer. 
too. While I'm young, something to keep me in the public eye so I can attract a suitable match. That means public relations most likely. The simple truth is that they haven't told me yet, and apparently they haven't liked my ideas on the subject." 
"And those would be?" 
Emma flings her arms wide, a starlet pose. "Why, to be fabulously wealthy and decadent and die young in an exotic land surrounded by adoring and nubile devotees, of course. Is there anything else worth aspiring to?" 
This is perhaps a not so subtle indication that she wants to drop the subject, so Ray lets her. He's gotten enough out of the business portion of this lunch to justify the expense on the cred pool to Becker. 
"So where do I fit into these future plans?" 
"You would be the High Priest, Ray, shielding my glory from the masses, worshipping at my altar, heeding my every command." 
She comes across as completely earnest, so Ray nods playfully. "It's been too long since the universe has seen a well conducted theocracy." 
“I can’t tell him, you know,” Martinez said after a few minutes. “It would be—it would be quite bad. I don’t know what he would be able to do.” 
What he was able to do without it was frightening enough. The Lancer was going to go out and find anyone else in Martinez’s life to hurt—friends, family, other mathematicians, Martinez herself once he knew what would be liable to kill her—until she capitulated. And capitulate she would, once our captor reached the variable named Sonya Halliday. Martinez had given up everything for Halliday, and she’d give up the proof as well, I felt sure. Their friendship was her zeroth axiom. 
It was a race, then. “Is okay,” I slurred. “I have a plan.” 
She raised her eyebrows. Her huge glasses were missing, I noticed, making her bones seem even finer and smaller than before. “I hope your plan does not involve being unchained, because if so, you are unlikely to be able to enact it.” 
“Doesn’t,” I said. 
“Intriguing.” She stared into space, considering as if this were a riddle: Two prisoners, A and B, are chained in a room until A gives up information. B tells A not to worry, that she has a plan to escape. What is it? 
"Cut." I waved at everybody. "Take ten. We need to re­charge here, take a break and stretch." 
Paula was caught off guard, in the middle of a sentence, and she let her voice trail off, puzzled. 
"Hey, I'm sorry Rachel came barging in," Paula finally said. "Guess she broke everybody's concentration, huh?" 
"Yeah, well, sometimes we all need to lean back and take a fresh run at things." I called to Rachel, who came trotting over, spaghetti sauce still on her face, and picked her up. I felt at a loss about what to do. Tell Paula her daughter had a younger brother in the Village, and she might fall apart. "I was actually curious about something. Do you know any­thing about Rachel's birth mother?" 
"I don't want to know. It would disrupt my life. And my peace of mind." Her eyes acquired a kind of sadness mingled with anxiety. "I'm reconciled to the fact she probably got into some kind of trouble, may not have exactly been Nobel Prize material, but I'm a big believer in nurture over nature. That's why I write books for kids. So I think Rachel's going to end up being a lot more like me than like her real mother." 
“They’re back up,” he said. 
Felix whooshed out a breath. He sent the message to the newsgroup, one that he’d run through five drafts before settling on, “Take care of the place, OK? We’ll be back, someday.” 
Everyone was going except Sario. Sario wouldn’t leave. He came down to see them off, though. 
The sysadmins gathered in the lobby and Felix made the safety door go up, and the light rushed in. 
Sario stuck his hand out. 
“Good luck,” he said. 
“You too,” Felix said. He had a firm grip, Sario, stronger than he had any right to be. “Maybe you were right,” he said. 
“Maybe,” he said. 
“You going to pull the plug?” 
Sario looked up at the drop-ceiling, seeming to peer through the reinforced floors at the humming racks above. “Who knows?” he said at last. 
Van scratched and a flurry of white motes danced in the sunlight. 
“Let’s go find you a pharmacy,” Felix said. He walked to the door and the other sysadmins followed. 
They waited for the interior doors to close behind them and then Felix opened the exterior doors. The air smelled and tasted like a mown grass, like the first drops of rain, like the lake and the sky, like the outdoors and the world, an old friend not heard from in an eternity. 
As she drew nearer to the wizard’s door, an unshakable fatal conclusion gripped her: he was long gone, shot or gassed, or simply moved to somewhere else. It had been months and months since he’d given her the printer-clothes and the dumplings and surely he was dead now. Who wasn’t? 
Her steps slowed as she came to his block. Each step was the work of half a minute or more. She didn’t want to see his old door hanging off its hinges, didn’t want to see the ruins of the brave curves and swoops of his flat and his furniture. 
But her steps took her to the door, and it was shut and silent as any of the doors in the street. Nothing marked it beyond the grime of the city and the scratches and scrapes that no one painted over any longer. 
She tried the knob. It was locked. She knocked. Silence. She knocked again, harder. Still silence. Crying now, she thundered on the door with her fists and kicked it with her feet. He was gone, gone, gone, and she would be dead in a week. 
Then the door opened. It wasn’t the wizard, but a well-fed blonde woman in a housecoat with slippers. She was beautiful, a movie-star, though maybe that was just because she wasn’t starved nearly to death. 
The coral boomed again. It was talking in some kind of code, he guessed, though not one he could solve. Up on the surface, rowboat-him was certainly listening in and had probably cracked it all. It was probably wondering why he was floating spacily along the wall instead of doing something like he was supposed to. He wondered if he’d deleted too much of himself when he downloaded into the shell. 
He decided to do something. There was a cave-opening before him. He reached out and grabbed hold of the coral around the mouth and pulled himself into it. His body tried to stop him from doing this—it didn’t like the lack of room in the cave, didn’t like him touching the reef. It increased his discomfort as he went deeper and deeper, startling an old turtle that fought with him for room to get out, mashing him against the floor of the cave, his mask clanging on the hard spines. When he looked up, he could see scratches on its surface. 
His air gauge was in the red now. He could still technically surface without a decompression stop, though procedure was to stop for three minutes at three meters, just to be on the safe side. 
“Something happened to you, and we have no idea what, or—for all we know you could be a ticking time bomb. We have no idea whether—” 
“That’s not fair,” I said. “You can’t tell me you know every little thing that has ever affected you—and if we’re talking about Pithica, Arthur was just as much—” 
“I’m not done! This isn’t about me being afraid for me, or for Arthur, or for anyone else, even though God knows I am. I’m afraid for you, Cas. Can you understand that? At all? You can’t ask me to be friends with you and watch you ignore this!” 
“Who said you have to?” The words were out before I could think about them, ugly and saw-toothed. “If you don’t like being friends with me, fine. No one’s forcing you.” 
“Oh, fuck you, Cas.” He sounded bitter and frayed and exhausted. “Do you even know why you can do what you do? You are not possible. And you can’t remember why, or how you ended up here, or if there’s any sort of reason tangled up with you shooting people without asking questions or having a drug and alcohol dependence Bane would envy—” 
“Cas,” said Rio, “She had logical arguments for you because you respond to logical arguments.” 
I was confused. “What other type would someone respond to?” 
“It’s clear you don’t often converse with other people,” said Rio with a hint of irony. 
“Oh, and you do?” 
“Touché,” he said. “Cas, she used the method of argument that would most appeal to you. With another she might have used emotional appeal, or irrelevant facts, or fallacies of any stripe.” 
He was missing the point. “It doesn’t matter what she would use on anyone else,” I said. “She had logical arguments. The logic in them doesn’t go away just because she wouldn’t have mentioned it to someone-not-me.” 
“She had what seemed like logical arguments,” Rio corrected. “People can pretend to logic to perpetrate almost any reality.” 
“Except when you dig deep enough, that kind of ‘logic’ always has deductive flaws,” I contested hotly. “This was different. I think I would know.” 
“Are you so sure?” asked Rio. 
“Of course I’m sure! I’m perfectly capable of differentiating—” 
“Right-o!” he said. “Let’s try it!” 
Together they went up the stairs and down the hall of the other wing, opposite that in which Lexy’s room was. Captain Grey knocked on a door, and a quiet, middle-aged little nurse came out. 
“I’ll just pop in to see how my sister’s getting on,” said the young man, and Lexy silently applauded his toploftical manner. 
“I’m sorry,” said the little nurse, “but Dr. Quelton has given strict orders—” 
“Er—yes, quite so!” he interrupted suavely. “I shan’t stop a minute.” 
He came nearer, but the nurse drew back and stood with her back against the door. 
“Dr. Quelton has given strict orders—” she repeated. 
“No more of that, please!” he said with a frown. “I’m going to see Mrs. Quelton for a moment. Stand aside, please!” 
He did not raise his voice, but the quality of it was oddly changed. Lexy felt a thrill of pleasure in its cool assurance and authority. Perhaps he objected very much to “making a row,” but what a glorious row he could make if he chose! If he would only once face Dr. Quelton like this! 
<wheeze> I think of you as someone who's so fierce and brave that I forget you have feel- ings and I think I hurt them somehow. I don't know if you had anything to do with what hap- pened with Simon Meyer, but if I triggered bad memories, I'm sorry. 
I had to take a deep breath. Then before I could have second thoughts I started typing. 
<zen> It's not that. 
<zen> Okay, first, I like you a lot. Insert mushy stuff here. Just so you know. I always liked you, but I didn't know how much until you were in that shed and I had to find you and I wasn't sure if I could do it in time. 
<wheeze> I was SO happy to hear your voice that night. Insert sheer terror here. But I always knew I liked you. From the start. 
<zen> I don't always get people. Even myself. I mean, I got diagnosed as having "oppositional defiant disorder" when I was eleven . 
<wheeze> That's a thing? There should be a Nobel Prize for oppositional defiance. 
<zen> It was mean to ignore your messages. 
It's just so weird being here. I never told you why I left this place. I never even told Monica the gory details. But brace yourself, here it comes . 
The cold stole back over her. It was full dark and the blackout curtains on the windows meant that not a sliver of light escaped. The moonless cloudy night made everything as dark as a cave. 
Finally, she cried. She hadn’t cried since she found out that Reeta had died—she hadn’t even liked Reeta, but to have someone die that soon after your seeing them was scary like you had almost died, almost. 
The wizard came on her there, weeping. He appeared out of the mist carrying a little light the size of a pea that he cupped in his hand to muffle most of the light. He was about her father’s age, but with her mother’s look of having survived something terrible without having survived altogether. He dressed like it was the old days, in fancy, bright-colored clothes, and he was well-fed in a way that no one else in the city was. 
“Hello there,” he said. He got down on his hunkers so he could look her in the eye. “Why are you crying?” 
Valentine hated grownups who patronized her and the wizard sounded like he believed that no little girl could possibly have anything real to cry about. 
“Are you nuts? You got me out.” 
“You took care of me before, so we’re even. Anyway, I got my application in for this program where high school kids can go to college for free. If I get accepted at the U, I’ll probably get to move back in with Monica so I can get to school. Until then, though . . . 
I’m good. I’ll just be happy when Wheeze is in the clear.” 
“It’s stupid. He didn’t even do anything.” 
“In the criminal justice system,” I said in a Law and Order voice, “the people are represented by two separate groups: Dumb and Dumber. Bump bah.” That got a smile out of him. “Hey, I want to go to the swings. Will you push me?” 
Two weeks later, I heard the familiar Convo blurp. I set aside my laptop and the routine I was trying to debug and reached for my phone. 
<wheeze> It's official. No charges. I'm not a wanted man anymore! 
<zen> yay! Free at last. What a relief. 
<wheeze> How's Wilson doing? Is he okay with his plea deal? 
<zen> It may screw things up later, having a record, but he's just glad to be out. He and Emily moved in with some friends. I went to visit them yesterday. Nice house, but it takes forever to get there by bus and then it' s awk- ward because he's all "wow, I can't believe you did all that for me." I actually get along better with Emily. I'm glad they dropped all the charges against her, even though the idea that Wilson was a ringleader and she wasn't is pretty hilarious. 
> So I'm going to miss him, weirdly. If he's gone for good. I wouldn't put it past him to stroll back onto campus someday and say, "What, what? I just...  overreact much?" 
Plenty of the notes ran in this direction, but this was the most articulate. Lawrence read it through three times before adding it to the file of useful stuff. It was a small pile. Still, Gerta kept forwarding him responses. 
> He mentioned a sister. Only once. A whole bunch of us were talking about how our families were really supportive of our coming to the Order, and after it had gone round the whole circle, he just kind of looked at the sky and said, "My sister thought I was an idiot to go inside. I asked her what she thought I should do and she said, 'If I was you, kid, I'd just disappear before someone disappeared me.'" Naturally we all wanted to know what he meant by that. "I'm not very good at bullshitting, and that's a vital skill in today's world. She was better at it than me, when she worked at it, but she was the kind of person who'd let her guard slip every now and then." 
had the wick of their lives snuffed in a matter of seconds. Legs jutting from open doors. Limp forms flat on their faces with a spill of clipboards or hand held computers fanned around them as though they have been caught tripping over their own feet. 
Kilgore calls Ray's attention away from the general nightmare by tapping one of the screens. "Look at this." 
Then he points to another. "And this. And this one, too. See if you can explain it to me." 
He recognizes the composition of the image by theory rather than fact. It's one of those things only the ship's designers see in actuality, before the cone is sealed and the venting tubes attached and the cooling tanks pumped full of distilled water. It's the inside of Paraclete's Van Nuys reactor. He doesn't really understand how it works, but he recognizes the tree trunk sized plutonium enriched rods suspended over quicksilver domes that serve as their contact points. From this angle, he can see just a glimpse of the finely bored circumference chamber, the particle super- accelerator which bombards the rods and the contacts with a withering stream of atomic-fusion fuel.  Three cameras. Three chambers full of rods, only two of which are kept on-line at any given time while the third is brought down on a rotating schedule for maintenance by an army of reactor drones. But all three are functioning now, stabbing blue strobes of lighting between rods and contacts. The fierce bursts of electrical energy scour the chambers, scorching the pale, gray walls with blackened scars. 
Boot? But Frankie gives him the appropriate hand signal, a snap wave toward the back of the dining room and the booths crowded under pools of low and flickering yellow lights. 
"Booth," Ray says distinctly. 
Frankie gives him the wink again-Gotcha. He snaps his fingers at someone Ray can't see, presumably a waiter, and draws them deeper into the dining hall. Positioned on Ray's right, opposite Emma, Frankie leans close so he can speak almost mouth to ear. 
"Hey, tell me honestly. I've been working on the accent, watching some old movies and stuff. Is it over the top? I think it's probably over the top but none of my guys will say so. " 
Frankie/Ed's "guys" are mostly Koreans still trying to learn more than a passing familiarity grade school English. They wouldn't recognize over the top if it fell on them, and would be close to the last speakers of the language in human space to criticize anyone else's mangled accent. Koreans are generally way too polite to give you a straight answer anyway. 
Valentine squeezed Trover’s hand until he whimpered. She didn’t trust her tongue enough to say anything. 
They went into the vestibule and then turned left into a flat. Now, until this time, she’d always turned right when visiting the wizard, but now on the right there was nothing but a smooth, unbroken wall. And to the left, there was an entirely different flat, barren of furniture as her own flat, small and dirty and smelling of death. 
“Search away,” the wizard said. He tried to put a hand on Valentine’s shoulder and she shied away and dropped her hand to the waistband of the trousers he’d printed for her, where she’d hidden her mother’s tiny sidearm. “You’ll find nothing, I assure you.” 
Valentine could see that they’d find nothing. All the furniture in the room couldn’t have concealed a single tin of food. This wasn’t even the right flat. With her amazing ears, she heard the movement of the wizard’s associates, the documentarians, in the next flat over. 
“I hear them,” she said. “Next door. This isn’t the right flat.” 
"Sorry, I'm eating," I said and moved again. This time he put his hand on my chest. He was breathing fast through his nose, making the booger wiggle. I think I was breathing hard too, but it was hard to tell over the hammering of my heart. 
The other one flipped down a flap on the front of his windbreaker to reveal a SFPD insignia. "Police," he said. "Please come with us." 
"Let me just get my stuff," I said. 
"We'll take care of that," he said. The booger one stepped right up close to me, his foot on the inside of mine. You do that in some martial arts, too. It lets you feel if the other guy is shifting his weight, getting ready to move. 
I wasn't going to run, though. I knew I couldn't outrun fate. 
They took me outside and around the corner, to a waiting unmarked police car. It wasn't like anyone in that neighborhood would have had a hard time figuring out that it was a cop-car, though. Only police drive big Crown Victorias now that gas had hit seven bucks a gallon. What's more, only cops could double-park in the middle of Van Ness street without getting towed by the schools of predatory tow-operators that circled endlessly, ready to enforce San Francisco's incomprehensible parking regulations and collect a bounty for kidnapping your car. 
"You got the prick's license number?" he exclaimed. "Why the hell didn't you say so?" 
"Honestly, it sort of slipped my mind. I'm having a little trouble thinking straight right now." 
Fortunately my short-term memory is pretty good, even when I'm stressed, so I spewed it out. 
"Don't go anywhere," he declared. "I'll get back to you in five minutes." 
I hung up the phone and lay down, flat out on the carpet, trying a breathing exercise to calm down. The problem was, it wasn't working. Having had some experience with being robbed—I once got completely cleaned out when I had a ground-floor apartment down in the Village—I know you go through certain Kubler-Ross-like stages of anger, denial, de­pression, acceptance. You also go through a predictable series of recriminations: I should have had window bars and gates; I should have had a different lock; I should have had two different locks. In the instance just recalled, I'm virtually certain an apartment painter duplicated a set of my keys on his lunch break and then passed them on to a second-story artist. No way to prove that, mind you, but it had to be what happened. I also suspect he checked my appointments cal­endar to see when I was going to be out of town. 
The reef came up the stairs then, and looked at Kate sitting on the deck, crying. 
“Let’s have sex,” they said. “That was fun, we should do it some more.” 
Kate kept crying. 
“Come on,” they said, grabbing her by the shoulder and tugging. 
Kate shoved them back. 
“Leave her alone,” Robbie said. “She’s upset, can’t you see that?” 
“What does she have to be upset about? Her kind remade the universe and bends it to its will. They created you and me. She has nothing to be upset about. Come on,” they repeated. “Let’s go back to the room.” 
Kate stood up and glared out at the sea. “Let’s go diving,” she said. “Let’s go to the reef.” 
Robbie rowed in little worried circles and watched his telemetry anxiously. The reef had changed a lot since the last time he’d seen it. Large sections of it now lifted over the sea, bony growths sheathed in heavy metals extracted from sea-water—fancifully shaped satellite uplinks, radio telescopes, microwave horns. Down below, the untidy, organic reef shape was lost beneath a cladding of tessellated complex geometric sections that throbbed with electromagnetic energy—the reef had built itself more computational capacity. 
“But, I say, your nice little hat, you know!” 
Lexy pulled off the nice little hat and laid it on his knee. Then she rapped on the window, the driver stopped, and Lexy opened the door. 
“No! Look here! Please, Miss Moran!” cried Captain Grey. “Very well, then, if you will go, I’ll go with you!” 
“I’d rather you didn’t,” said Lexy. “I feel as if I’d like to go alone just for one look. You know how it is, sometimes. I haven’t had even a smell of the sea for so long; and it reminds me—” 
She looked at him with a shadowy little smile, and he did understand. 
“All right!” he said. “Then slip on my coat.” 
She did so, to oblige him, and off she went, half running, down the lane, in the direction of the sound of the surf. Captain Grey looked after her—such an absurd little figure in that aquascutum of his that almost touched the ground! He watched her till she was out of sight; then he sat down in the cab and lit a cigarette. 
He thought about her, but Lexy had forgotten him. She found herself on a desolate stretch of wet sand, with the gray sea tossing under a gray sky. She smelled the hearty, salt smell, she remembered old things, sad and sweet. Tears came into her eyes, and she felt them on her cheeks, warm, salt as the sea. If only she could go running home, back to the house where her mother used to wait for her! If only she could find her father’s big, firm hand clasping her own! 
The Social Harmony man held up one finger on the hand closest to the black robot holding Ada, and she screamed, a sound that knifed through Arturo, ripping him from asshole to appetite. 
“STOP!” he shouted. The man put his finger down and Ada sobbed quietly. 
“I was taken to the safe house on the fifth of September, after being gassed by a Eurasian infowar robot in the basement of Fairview Mall—” 
There was a thunderclap then, a crash so loud that it hurt his stomach and his head and vibrated his fingertips. The doors to the room buckled and flattened, and there stood Benny and Lenny and—Natalie. 
Benny and Lenny moved so quickly that he was only able to track them by the things they knocked over on the way to tearing apart the robot that was holding Ada. A second later, the robot holding him was in pieces, and he was standing on his own two feet again. The Social Harmony man had gone so pale he looked green in his natty checked suit and pink tie. 
Benny or Lenny pinned his arms in a tight hug and Natalie walked carefully to him and they regarded one another in silence. She slapped him abruptly, across each cheek. “Harming children,” she said. “For shame.” 
I don't know whether that is worse or not. Now for a new last verse!" 
In a few minutes the poetess looked up, flushed and triumphant. 
Mr. and Mrs. Cobb exchanged dumb glances of admiration; indeed uncle Jerry was obliged to turn his face to the window and wipe his eyes furtively with the string-bag. 
"How in the world did you do it?" Mrs. Cobb exclaimed. 
"Oh, it's easy," answered Rebecca; "the hymns at meeting are all like that. You see there's a school newspaper printed at Wareham Academy once a month. Dick Carter says the editor is always a boy, of course; but he allows girls to try and write for it, and then chooses the best. Dick thinks I can be in it." 
"IN it!" exclaimed uncle Jerry. "I shouldn't be a bit surprised if you had to write the whole paper; an' as for any boy editor, you could lick him writin', I bate ye, with one hand tied behind ye." 
"Can we have a copy of the poetry to keep in the family Bible?" inquired Mrs. Cobb respectfully. 
"Oh! would you like it?" asked Rebecca. "Yes indeed! I'll do a clean, nice one with violet ink and a fine pen. But I must go and look at my poor dress." 
"Can he hear us?" 
She nodded. 
"Viktor," he said, thinking of the thing in the vat. "Clarity made the people who took it very angry. They couldn't look at advertisements without wanting to smash something. Going into a shop made them nearly catatonic. Voting made them want to storm a government office with flaming torches. Every test subject went to prison within eight weeks." 
Ria smiled. She took his hands in hers -- warm, dry -- and squeezed them. 
His phone rang. He took one hand out and answered it. 
"Hello?" 
"How much do you want for it?" Viktor's voice was ebullient. Mad, even. 
"It's not for sale." 
"I'll buy Ate, put you in charge." 
"Don't want it." 
"I'll kill your parents." The ebullient tone didn't change at all. 
"You'll kill everyone if Clarity is widely used." 
"You don't believe that. Clarity lets you choose the course that will make you happiest. Mass suicide won't make humanity happiest." 
"You don't know that." 
"Wanna bet?" 
"Why don't you kill yourself?" 
"Because dead, I'll never make things better." 
Poor Miranda Sawyer! Hovering on the verge of the great beyond,—her body "struck" and no longer under control of her iron will,—no divine visions floated across her tired brain; nothing but petty cares and sordid anxieties. Not all at once can the soul talk with God, be He ever so near. If the heavenly language never has been learned, quick as is the spiritual sense in seizing the facts it needs, then the poor soul must use the words and phrases it has lived on and grown into day by day. Poor Miss Miranda!—held fast within the prison walls of her own nature, blind in the presence of revelation because she had never used the spiritual eye, deaf to angelic voices because she had not used the spiritual ear. 
There came a morning when she asked for Rebecca. The door was opened into the dim sick-room, and Rebecca stood there with the sunlight behind her, her hands full of sweet peas. Miranda's pale, sharp face, framed in its nightcap, looked haggard on the pillow, and her body was pitifully still under the counterpane. 
“Russell, stop! What are you doing? You can’t get up!” 
“The hell I can’t.” I tore the medical tape off the back of my hand and slid out the IV, ignoring the dark blood that welled up. It would clot. “We have to find him. Now.” 
Arthur shook his head. “You ain’t allowed to find Checker. It’s part of his security whatsis, you know—clients don’t get to know where the Hole’s at.” 
“Arthur, this is very important.” I grabbed him by the shoulders. “Where Checker lives—he calls it the Hole?” I took a deep breath. “Do you know where it is? I’m not asking you to tell me, but do. You. Know?” 
He looked like he was thinking it over. It was wildly disconcerting, like watching a five-year-old child in a grown man’s body. “Of course I do. But I ain’t telling you, so don’t ask.” 
I physically shook him. “Arthur! We have to find him, now! You know, so Dawna knows, and Pithica’s coming after him!” We might be too late already. 
Arthur shook his head again, adamantly. “She wouldn’t hurt him. She was just interested.” 
"You can pick them up when you've logged out for the night. I'll leave them sitting on my desk." 
The conversation over, Ziggy wanders back into his office and closes the door so he can maintain the illusion that he's about to be obeyed. Ray watches him go, contemplating the door for several seconds in silence. 
Ray winks at the rat. "Lunch, you say? Sure, let's go."   The first thing everyone learns about Paraclete is that there is no actual, locate-able, stroll through-able, 
smell-the-flower variety garden on the Garden Level. There are no hydroponic growth vats, no specialized lighting, no actual fauna which might be even vaguely confused with explosions of greenery and/or vegetable caliber edibles. 
This somewhat flagrant misnomer might be considered an obscene breach of language usage if one neglected to take into account two critical facts: first, that the ship's schematics actually labeled it as Gamma Level, since it happened to fit comfortably between Beta Level and Delta Level; and second, that Gamma Level was the primary repository of paying passengers— folks who either should not be expected to carry a working knowledge of the Greek alphabet in their neural networks, or who considered such a sterile reference system to be vaguely chilling and gauche and hopelessly neo-militaristic. 
I kicked out the remaining plaster and wood and then ducked down and jammed my head through. The firefight muffled itself momentarily as I pushed through the dense screen of plant growth that had crept to life in the crack of sunlight against the wall before I burst through under the decking. It was cool under there, dark and musty-smelling with narrow white slats of light striping the dirt. I wormed the rest of my body out and through, dragging the AK with me just in case. 
There was still a chance I’d be hit by a stray bullet under here, but much less, considering the Feds would be concentrating on the main building. The space wasn’t tall enough for me to crawl, but I managed a reasonably fast belly-and-elbows squirm. 
I reached the far end of the first patio and wriggled my way over to the stairs. Unfortunately, they’d been built over a rocky bit, and I peered upward in the dimness—nope, I wouldn’t be able to fit underneath. 
Which gave me two choices: risk breaking cover, or hunker here and hope that when the DHS took the building they wouldn’t find my escape hole. Well, there was next to no chance of that happening. If I didn’t want to be taken by the Feds, I had to clear out entirely. 
"I had no intention of causing difficulties for you," Ray says evenly.  "I am fully aware of your intentions, Mr. Marlowe, but what you may intend and what the actual consequences of your actions may be do not necessarily correspond. This family has seen better days than the ones we've been granted of late. Trial stacked on trial. First Emma and Frederick's mother, then Micah, and now here you are, a distraction at best. At worst-well, who's to say?" 
Apparently, this is a woman who has no trouble expressing what she thinks. "I realize the timing is unfortunate." 
"Do you?" 
Ray hesitates over his phrasing. "I've been apprised of the current situation." 
"Do you think so?" 
He can't tell what she means by this question. "Yes." 
Amah frowns. "You have no idea of the complexities of the current situation. The affairs of the Whiston family are beyond your ken. That you would even suppose to know is foolish and preposterous. Are you a fool, Mr. Marlowe?" 
Emma draws a sharp breath. "Amah, you promised." 
which I couldn’t. That I could make it to a meet-up in my home town by bus or bicycle, but I would never, ever just happen to be in Bangkok or San...  meet-ups had happened. Up to this moment, they thought Shad was one of them. Not a black kid dressed in stupid clothes with outta control hair. 
That buzzing feeling was growing stronger. It usually meant I should back away, chill out. Too many times it had gotten me into fights. It felt like something was about to get broken, smashed into a million pieces. It felt like anger and sorrow were chasing each other in circles in my stomach, making me feel jittery and sick. 
I should have realized they would all be grownups, all white, 
all rich, the kind of people who got invited to speak at cyberse- curity conferences and had money to travel. They looked nerdy in a geeky-hipster way. They looked like each other, a matched set. But they stared at me like I was a freak and I came close to telling them I had made a mistake so I could turn and head down the stairs and bike home to my attic apartment with its mothball- smelly bedroom under the eaves, and they would keep thinking that Shad, who typed fast and fixed code and cracked jokes, was just like them. 
Checker turned to one of his other machines without answering and started typing very fast. 
“What is it?” 
“I think—” His fingers slowed. “I think I know who it is.” 
“What? What do you mean? You found who has Halliday?” 
“Well, I can’t find them. But I think I would be able to if they weren’t wiped.” 
“Hey.” I snapped my fingers at him. “Make sense.” 
“I think it’s the Lancer.” 
“Who’s that?” 
“A black hat hacker. A pretty infamous one. So much of what I’ve been trying to track has been wiped, and I just realized—it’s his style, exactly. The way the information’s gone missing—it’s like a shadow. His shadow.” 
“Wait a second,” I said. “Does this mean someone else would be able to trace me through data you’ve wiped? Because that doesn’t make me feel terribly secure—” 
“Oh, leave it to you to make it all about you. Come on, Cas. I’m the best. And whoever else—” He cut himself off with a cough. “It’s different. This guy left traces.” 
But whoever this was probably felt confident he’d wiped the evidence clean. Just like Checker felt confident. And with the NSA’s spying eyes being turned toward us right now...my thoughts soured. 
Among the teachers at Wareham was one who influenced Rebecca profoundly, Miss Emily Maxwell, with whom she studied English literature and composition. Miss Maxwell, as the niece of one of Maine's ex-governors and the daughter of one of Bowdoin's professors, was the most remarkable personality in Wareham, and that her few years of teaching happened to be in Rebecca's time was the happiest of all chances. There was no indecision or delay in the establishment of their relations; Rebecca's heart flew like an arrow to its mark, and her mind, meeting its superior, settled at once into an abiding attitude of respectful homage. 
It was rumored that Miss Maxwell "wrote," which word, when uttered in a certain tone, was understood to mean not that a person had command of penmanship, Spencerian or otherwise, but that she had appeared in print. 
"You'll like her; she writes," whispered Huldah to Rebecca the first morning at prayers, where the faculty sat in an imposing row on the front seats. "She writes; and I call her stuck up." 
“Bloody hell,” Anda breathed. The cottage was ringed with guards, forty or fifty of them, with bows and spells and spears, in entrenched positions. 
“This is nuts,” Lucy agreed. “I’m calling them. This is nuts.” 
There was a muting click as Lucy rang off and Anda used up a scrying scroll to examine the inventories of the guards around the corner. The more she looked, the more scared she got. They were loaded down with spells, a couple of them were guarding BFGs and what looked like an even bigger BFG, maybe the fabled BFG10K, something that was removed from the game economy not long after gameday one, as too disruptive to the balance of power. Supposedly, one or two existed, but that was just a rumor. Wasn’t it? 
“That’s a lot of shares to split the pay into,” Anda said. 
“Oh ye of little tits,” Lucy said. “I’ve negotiated a bonus for us if we make it—a million gold and three missions’ worth of cash. The Fahrenheits are taking payment in gold—they’ll be here in an hour.” 
This wasn’t a mission anymore, Anda realized. It was war. Gamewar. Hundreds of players converging on this shard, squaring off against the ranked mercenaries guarding the huge cottage over the hill. 
“Dawna.” I lowered my voice, even though we had already been speaking quietly. “Tell me everything about how you knew to contact me.” 
Her forehead wrinkled in confusion, but she obeyed anyway. “A—a man called me.” She swallowed, as out of her depth as the first time she’d told me the story. Dawna Polk was not a woman built for uncertain times. “He knew my name. He told me Courtney—” She lowered her gaze to her nervous hands, blinking rapidly. “He said if I wanted my sister to live, I would—I needed to get her out. He was very convincing.” She shivered. “He gave me your phone number, said to call you and tell you—to tell you Rio had sent me.” 
“What did his voice sound like?” So far she hadn’t said anything she hadn’t told me in our first conversation, when she’d initially contacted me. 
She gave a tense little half-shrug. “A man’s voice? What—what are you asking?” 
“Any accent? Distinctive pitch? Anything?” Jesus, I needed something. If Dawna couldn’t give me a clue, I was at a dead end. 
The stranger took her bag, and put it into the taxi. He would have assisted Lexy, but she was already inside; so he, too, got in. He closed the door, and off they went. 
“I am sorry, you know,” he said, “shoving ahead like that; but I didn’t notice—” 
“Well, please stop being sorry now,” requested Lexy firmly. 
“Right-o!” said he. “You won’t mind my saying you’ve been wonderfully nice about it?” 
“No, I don’t mind that a bit,” replied Lexy. “I like to be wonderfully nice.” 
There was a moment’s silence. 
“Will you allow me to introduce myself?” said the stranger. “Grey, you know—George Grey—Captain Grey, you know.” 
“Captain of a ship?” asked Lexy, with interest. She thought she would like to talk about ships. 
“Oh, no!” said he, rather shocked. “Army—British army—stationed in India.” 
“I knew you were an Englishman.” 
“Did you really?” said he, as if surprised. “People do seem to know. My first visit to your country—six months’ leave—so I’ve come here to see my sister—Mrs. Quelton. She’s married to an American doctor.” 
"How's Grampa?" Sean's father asked. 
"Oh, he's delightful," Adele said. "We introduced him to my Ethan yesterday, and they're getting along famously. Sean, introduce me to your charming father, please." 
"Dad," Sean said, through grit teeth, "This is Adele. Adele, my father, Mitch. We were thinking of getting day-passes for Grampa and Ethan and taking them to Universal. You ever been to Universal, Dad? I hear you come down here a lot." His normally fragmented attention was as focused as a laser, boring into his father through the rear-view. 
His father's stern face refused to expose any of his confusion. "I don't think I want to go to Universal," he said. 
"Oh, but it's wonderful ," Adele gushed. "You shouldn't knock it until you've tried it." 
"I don't think so," Sean's father repeated. "What's your thesis?" 
Sean plunged headlong into the breech. "It's called 'The Tri-Generational Deficit: What's My Father's Excuse?'" 
Sean's father nodded curtly. "And how's it going?" 
"Well, you have to understand, I'm just warming up to the subject with Grampa. And then I'll have to do an interview series with you, of course." 
"Well, in any case, I hope you have a good visit," he declared diplomatically. Another pause. "Planning to be here long?" 
"I'm not sure yet." Why did he want to know that? 
"I see. Whatever happens, I hope you find what you're looking for. Best of luck." 
He hung up, leaving me with the feeling he already knew the answer to every question he'd asked. The guys at the airport, and now the embassy—I was the best-known tourist in the country. 
Okay, maybe I should just play along and see what hap­pens. In any case, I'd just lost my...  but I had a definite interest in the phone book. 
And there they were. Ninos del Mundo. Complete with an address, way out the Boulevar R. Aguilar Batres. 
Well, why not see where it leads you? Sarah's card said the place was in the Peten, but who knows? 
I got up off the bed and went into the bathroom for a shampoo and shower. Despite the fact that Barry Morton wanted me to see this Ninos del Mundo place, whatever it was, I didn't want to show up looking and smelling like some bedraggled tourist. I'd wear my tailored blue suit, which, along with the dark blue heels, ought to make me look ade­quately businesslike. 
The explosion tore through concrete and stone, and I jerked Halliday with me, running, running, every minute expecting a 7.62 round to punch through my back. But men were screaming all around us, dashing to save themselves—even the ones who’d been closer to the exit than we were needed precious seconds to lurch around and figure out what was happening, to turn and race for the outside, and we sprinted past them toward light and freedom. Concrete blocks smashed down as the ceiling began to cave in. 
We burst out into the sunlight, the overgrown weeds slapping at our shins. I yanked Halliday along with me, away, away, the building collapse a thunder on our tails. I flipped the selector switch on the AK back to full and sprayed it behind us without looking, dissuading pursuit. 
No one fired back. Most of the goons had been way too far from the door. 
We ran. 
Thoughts skittered through my brain in a jumble. We had to get to a vehicle; not everyone would have been killed and the rest could keep coming after us, shooting at us as we ran. But I didn’t see any sign of their vans or SUVs. Where would they be keeping them? 
This is the type of thing Marine sergeants have been doing with officers for five hundred years. Ray can't help but blink at him, dumbfounded himself. So this is what it feels like to be on the receiving end of an officer-sergeant ass reaming. He chuckles lightly in spite of himself, realizes that 'chuckling' is way too macho a description for it. By God, he's giggling. Giggling like he's losing his mind. Or do you cackle when your mind goes? He doesn't know. 
Rodriguez returns and slides a blistering...  
Fucking Marines, Ray thinks. And he tells them. All of it.   The event that at some point in the night came to be called Operation Boogey Man (alternately, Operation Booger Man, Booty Man, Boogie Down Man) does not begin as smoothly as Ray would have liked. In the morning, with the three of them still scrubbing sleep out of their eyes and the...  it becomes painfully apparent that Kilgore and Rodriguez had never qualified in Covert Urban Civilian Fashion. They go through much of their wardrobes of loud, baggy shirts and khaki cargo pants with too many utilitarian pockets and manage in none of the iterations to look like anything except Marines gearing up for espionage activities. Ray would have accepted a Marines-on-shore-leave theme since that fit with their backup cover story, but they couldn't even pull that off without looking like they had stuffed blocks of explosive putty in their pockets and kept pistols strapped under their arms. (This was partially due to the fact that Kilgore insisted on actually keeping a pistol there.) 
Not only those who knew Aladdin when he played in the streets like a vagabond did not know him again; those who had seen him but a little while before hardly knew him, so much were his features altered; such were the effects of the lamp, as to procure by degrees to those who possessed it, perfections agreeable to the rank the right use of it advanced them to. 
The Princess was the most beautiful brunette in the world; her eyes were large, lively, and sparkling; her looks sweet and modest; her nose was of a just proportion and without a fault; her mouth small, her lips of a vermilion red, and charmingly agreeable symmetry; in a word, all the features of her face were perfectly regular. It is not therefore surprising that Aladdin, who had never seen, and was a stranger to, so many charms, was dazzled. With all these perfections the Princess had so delicate a shape, so majestic an air, that the sight of her was sufficient to inspire respect. 
" Adorable Princess," said Aladdin to her, accosting her, and saluting her respectfully, "if I have the misfortune to have displeased you by my boldness in aspiring to the possession of so lovely a creature, I must tell you that you ought to blame your bright eyes and charms, not me. " 
“Prime Minister of Cyberspace? Why not call yourself the Grand Poobah of the Global Data Network? It’s more dignified, sounds cooler and it’ll get you just as far.” Will had the sleeping spot next to him, up in the cafeteria, with Van on the other side. The room smelled like a dingleberry: twenty-five sysadmins who hadn’t washed in at least a day all crammed into the same room. For some of them, it had been much, much longer than a day. 
“Shut up, Will,” Van said. “You wanted to try to knock the Internet offline.” 
“Correction: I want to knock the Internet offline. Present-tense” 
Felix cracked one eye. He was so tired, it was like lifting weights. 
“Look, Sario—if you don’t like my platform, put one of your own forward. There are plenty of people who think I’m full of shit and I respect them for that, since they’re all running opposite me or backing someone who is. That’s your choice. What’s not on the menu is nagging and complaining. Bedtime now, or get up and post your platform.” 
Sario sat up slowly, unrolling the jacket he had been using for a pillow and putting it on. “Screw you guys, I’m out of here.” 
I stumbled back from the door that had protected me. The other side of it was on fire. So was a good part of the pavement where I’d just been sitting next to the hood, napalm or something like it coating every surface, flaming globs dousing the side of the overpass spectacularly. The heat scorched my skin, and my lungs strained with every breath as if someone were smothering me. 
Somewhere in my head I registered that this must have been their own brand of modified incendiary, a nice little bomb helping splash the napalm around. A thousand times deadlier than a normal Molotov cocktail. Great. 
A smattering of automatic fire tore into the van again, and I ducked, covering my head as more glass rained down. They couldn’t see me—did they know I was still alive? 
A soft click. I wasn’t sure how I heard it; everything was still muffled and ringing; but my brain immediately knew: lighter. 
Another flaming bottle soared over the roof of the van. 
The world slowed only to the parabola of projectile motion. The bottle sailed down, tumbling end over end, the flame on the soaked rag flaring as the wind of its passage whipped at it. 
This depressed and depressing frame of mind had lasted until the eventful day dawned on which Rebecca was to arrive. 
"If she makes as much work after she comes as she has before, we might as well give up hope of ever gettin' any rest," sighed Miranda as she hung the dish towels on the barberry bushes at the side door. 
"But we should have had to clean house, Rebecca or no Rebecca," urged Jane; "and I can't see why you've scrubbed and washed and baked as you have for that one child, nor why you've about bought out Watson's stock of dry goods." 
"I know Aurelia if you don't," responded Miranda. "I've seen her house, and I've seen that batch o' children, wearin' one another's clothes and never carin' whether they had 'em on right sid' out or not; I know what they've had to live and dress on, and so do you. That child will like as not come here with a passel o' things borrowed from the rest o' the family. She'll have Hannah's shoes and John's undershirts and Mark's socks most likely. I suppose she never had a thimble on her finger in her life, but she'll know the feelin' o' one before she's ben here many days. I've bought a piece of unbleached muslin and a piece o' brown gingham for her to make up; that'll keep her busy. Of course she won't pick up anything after herself; she probably never see a duster, and she'll be as hard to train into our ways as if she was a heathen." 
“No, not stolen. Made out of parts. There’s a guy. The code for getting on the network was in a phone book that we started finding last month.” 
“Give me the number, Liam,” Arturo said, taking out his phone. 
“Hello?” It was a man’s voice, adult. 
“Who is this?” 
“Who is this?” 
“Hello, Detective,” said the voice, and he placed it then. The Social Harmony man, bald and rounded, with his long nose and sharp Adam’s apple. His heart thudded in his chest. 
“Hello, sir,” he said. It sounded like a squeak to him. 
“You can just stay there, Detective. Someone will be along in a moment to get you. We have your daughter.” 
The robot that wrenched off the door of his car was black and non-reflective, headless and eight-armed. It grabbed him without ceremony and dragged him from the car without heed for his shout of pain. “Put me down!” he said, hoping that this robot that so blithely ignored the first law would still obey the second. No such luck. 
It cocooned him in four of its arms and set off cross-country, dancing off the roofs of houses, hopping invisibly from lamp-post to lamp-post, above the oblivious heads of the crowds below. The icy wind howled in Arturo’s bare ears, froze the tip of his nose and numbed his fingers. They rocketed downtown so fast that they were there in ten minutes, bounding along the lakeshore toward the Social Harmony center out on Cherry Beach. People who paid a visit to the Social Harmony center never talked about what they found there. 
"David, you're not going to believe where I am," I began, working out my game plan as I went along, trying to sound cool and control my racing pulse. "I'm in northern Guate­mala, at a place that would make a terrific feature. It's like a Maya theme park, deep in the rain forest. But it's real. I want you to contact the embassy and get them to grease the way for my crew to come here. This is too good to pass up." I thought about the costs and then added, "At least one cam­era and sound." 
One sure way to get Sarah out was to blow the place open to the world. 
"What's . . . where are you again?" 
I gave him a glowing trailer of the Williamsburg-like qualities of Baalum—a beautiful, exciting recreation of times gone by that out-Disneyed Disney. The cable channels would be bidding for the footage. 
"Hey, look, all things in time." He wasn't buying. "I'm talking an actual deal here. You know, money? Fuck the jun­gle wonderland. You've got exactly one more day down there on the Tarzan set, or wherever the hell it is, and then I'm gonna start finishing final cut on this damned picture myself. Don't make me have to do that, Morgy. This is not a drill. Nicky Russo came by again yesterday. He's fully prepared to call our note and impound your original negative. It's here, under lock and key, but we've got to get this project in the can and sold." 
Watching her walk away, clearly nervous, I realized this was the moment I'd been dreading—when I had to make a decision about how far to play along with Alex Goddard. Steve couldn't be reached, yet, but I still might be able to handle the situation on my own. The first thing to do was to get down to Sarah and talk some sense into her. Then I had to arrange for a way to get us both out. 
So . . . probably the best way to accomplish that was to go along with my own medical charade for a few more hours, to give me time to scout the scene and come up with a plan. A room would be a base to operate from. 
Still, I was feeling plenty of trepidation as we ascended the marble steps to the second floor, which had a long, car­peted hallway with doors along each side. Then, when we started down the hall, I caught the sound of a baby crying. 
"What's this floor for?" I remembered Alex Goddard had claimed it was to provide a postpartum bonding period, but I wanted to confirm that with my own eyes. 
"I'm giving up my apartment at the end of the month -- next Monday. I won't be able to afford it without the Association's salary," he said. 
Her place was big. A bedroom, a home office, a living room and a dining room. It was a serious deal for DC, even outside the beltway. It could easily accommodate a second person, even if they weren't sleeping together. 
Her office -- her staff -- the press -- the bill -- her Board. 
"Well," she said, "I've got to get going. I'll shower at the office. Got to get there in time to catch the Euro press-calls. Let me put your breakfast in a bag, OK?" 
He looked whipsawed. "Uh, OK. Can I give you a ride?" 
"No, I'll need my car this afternoon. Thanks, though." She kept her voice light, didn't meet his eyes. Kept thinking: her office -- her staff -- the bill. 
"Well," he said. He turned for the door. Stopped. She tensed. He turned back to her. "Trish," he said. 
"It's OK," she said. "It's OK. We just have religious differences, is all." 
She slipped past him and into her car, and left him standing in her driveway. As she asked the car to plot a route for her back to the Hill, she dug through her purse for a pocket-knife. At the next red light, she took her lapel and slashed at it, opening a rent in her shirt that reflected a little of what her heart was feeling. It made her feel a little better to do it. 
At first I didn't even clock the content of the video. I was totally floored by the cleverness of this hack. Streaming video from DNS? That was so smart and weird, it was practically perverted . 
Gradually, what I was seeing began to sink in. 
It was a board-room table in a small room with a mirror down one wall. I knew that room. I'd sat in that room, while Severe-Haircut woman had made me speak my password aloud. There were five comfortable chairs around the table, each with a comfortable person, all in DHS uniform. I recognized Major General Graeme Sutherland, the DHS Bay Area commander, along with Severe Haircut. The others were new to me. They all watched a video screen at the end of the table, on which there was an infinitely more familiar face. 
Kurt Rooney was known nationally as the President's chief strategist, the man who returned the party for its third term, and who was steaming towards a fourth. They called him "Ruthless" and I'd seen a news report once about how tight a rein he kept his staffers on, calling them, IMing them, watching their every motion, controlling every step. He was old, with a lined face and pale gray eyes and a flat nose with broad, flared nostrils and thin lips, a man who looked like he was smelling something bad all the time. 
“It’s not that I don’t want to help—” 
“Wrong answer,” Tonker said, and the IM session terminated. 
When Kate came up on deck, she was full of talk about the Reef, whom she was calling “Ozzie.” 
“They’re weirdest goddamned thing. They want to fight anything that’ll stand still long enough. Ever seen coral fight? I downloaded some time-lapse video. They really go at it viciously. At the same time, they’re clearly scared out of their wits about this all. I mean, they’ve got racial memory of their history, supplemented by a bunch of Wikipedia entries on reefs—you should hear them wax mystical over the Devonian Reefs, which went extinct millennia ago. They’ve developed some kind of wild theory that the Devonians developed sentience and extincted themselves. 
“So they’re really excited about us heading back to the actual reef now. They want to see it from the outside, and they’ve invited me to be an honored guest, the first human ever invited to gaze upon their wonder. Exciting, huh?” 
“They’re not going to make trouble for you down there?” 
"By 2007, we were 'Web 2.0.' I mean, we'd been Web 2.0 since Web 0.9, but now it seemed like the world was ready for us. All we needed was some capital to pay for the features our freeloading reference customers wanted. I met every single shitweasel -- excuse me, junior analyst -- on Sand Hill and brain dumped. They wrote great reports. We got nothing. No one was doing investments then, either: it was all acquisition driven. Stupid Sarbanes-Oxley killed IPOs and the VC went with it." 
The old woman, she called herself Chloe, was giving her a little hand-gesture that meant, "Do you need help getting rid of this jerk?" 
Nutritionist food wasn't even food -- just nutrients and flavoring. It was 80 percent of the stalls in the food-court, since the capital costs of a food printer and feedstock were practically nil, and any food hacker could differentiate himself by thinking up exotic new texture/flavor/temperature combos. 
"Twenty minutes, Mr VC." 
"Udhay," he said. "Udhay Gonzales." He passed her a card, laser-etched on a jumbo lima bean. She pocketed it. 
"I'm here." 
His head is spinning a little, the way he felt as a child when his uncle would take him by the arms and swing him around in a circle, then set him down to wander into chairs and table corners. "What's the status of your security team on this level?" 
"They should be exiting the main lift as we speak. " 
"Do you have your command network set up on Omicron?"  "We just patched into the ship systems." 
Ray nods, takes another moment to steady his voice. "Do you think you could jump onto the net and find me the code sequence that opens the door to Primary Reactor Control?" 
It is Becker's turn to pause. "Sure. Yeah." 
"That's good. There doesn't seem to be anyone around to let us in. And I should probably report that the status panels inside seem to be flipping themselves to a disturbing shade of yellow." There, in fact, goes another one. 
Peripherally, Ray sees Kilgore and Rodriguez stiffen, as though someone has just poked them with a needle. 
Ray knows the feeling. He's beginning to feel stiff all over. In the time it takes Becker to come up with the string of digits, and the additional seconds it takes Ray to steady the tremors in his hands and punch them in, 
As the incense billowed, our Maya dreamtime dance be­came ever more intense, and then a faint form began to writhe up out of the haze between us, an undulating serpent the deep color of jade. As Alex Goddard wrapped his arms around it, it began to form into two dark heads, then pirouette above us. Finally, as the two-headed specter opened its mouths and gazed down on the platform, Sarah stepped to­ward it and held out her arms. 
"Sar, no!" 
I screamed to her to get back, but as I did, the . . . thing reached down and swallowed her in flames. It was the Vi­sion-Serpent come to receive her. 
"Sarah . . ." 
"Can you get up now?" said a voice, cutting through the haze that enveloped my consciousness. At first I thought it was more of the dream, but then someone was touching me and I opened my eyes to see Marcelina standing beside the bed I was in, dressed in white and holding a candle. For a moment I thought I was still atop the rainy pyramid but then I felt the moistness of the sheets and realized the storm Id been dreaming of was being blown in through the slats of the windows. I was shivering. 
"I was field testing the equipment." 
It takes a visible effort for Sorensen to keep from dumping about a liter of accelerant on his already dangerously short fuse. "You'll meet me in my Ready Room, Mr. Marlowe— in five minutes. That should give you just enough time to do something with that drone so I don't have to see it on or about your person ever again. Are we clear?" 
"Yes." 
Seething, chest expanding. "Yes?"  Ray gets the hint, nods. "Yes, sir." 
"If you're not there in five minutes, I'll dispatch Chief Becker to track you down-with shackles in hand. Is that understood?" 
"Yes, sir." 
Sorensen stalks off like a man reciting the combination on his gun safe, dragging his lieutenants behind him. 
Ray watches him go, thinking: Rats. 
Paraclete resembles a battle scarred narwhal more than the sleek and sexy rockets people generally associated with space craft. Casual observers tend to agree that it has lumps in all the wrong places, ridges where there should be planes. It's like a high school kid's first experiments with a battered old jalopy and an industrial sized bucket of bondo. 
The plan was...  Ange's place to hang out and "study," i.e. take turns on her Xbox looking at the Xnet. Ange's mom got home late on Tuesdays, which was her night for yoga class and dinner with her girls, and Ange's sister was going out with her boyfriend, so we'd have the place to ourselves. I'd been having pervy thoughts about it ever since we'd made the plan. 
We got to her place and went straight to her room and shut the door. Her room was kind of a disaster, covered with layers of clothes and notebooks and parts of PCs that would dig into your stocking feet like caltrops. Her desk was worse than the floor, piled high with books and comics, so we ended up sitting on her bed, which was OK by me. 
The awkwardness from seeing Van had gone away somewhat and we got her Xbox up and running. It was in the center of a nest of wires, some going to a wireless antenna she'd hacked into it and stuck to the window so she could tune in the neighbors' WiFi. Some went to a couple of old laptop screens she'd turned into standalone monitors, balanced on stands and bristling with exposed electronics. The screens were on both bedside tables, which was an excellent setup for watching movies or IMing from bed -- she could turn the monitors sidewise and lie on her side and they'd be right-side-up, no matter which side she lay on. 
It was already past the appointed hour for Mr. Cobb and his coach to be lumbering down the street. 
"The stage ought to be here," said Miranda, glancing nervously at the tall clock for the twentieth time. "I guess everything 's done. I've tacked up two thick towels back of her washstand and put a mat under her slop-jar; but children are awful hard on furniture. I expect we sha'n't know this house a year from now." 
Jane's frame of mind was naturally depressed and timorous, having been affected by Miranda's gloomy presages of evil to come. The only difference between the sisters in this matter was that while Miranda only wondered how they could endure Rebecca, Jane had flashes of inspiration in which she wondered how Rebecca would endure them. It was in one of these flashes that she ran up the back stairs to put a vase of apple blossoms and a red tomato-pincushion on Rebecca's bureau. 
The stage rumbled to the side door of the brick house, and Mr. Cobb handed Rebecca out like a real lady passenger. She alighted with great circumspection, put the bunch of faded flowers in her aunt Miranda's hand, and received her salute; it could hardly be called a kiss without injuring the fair name of that commodity. 
“That’s her,” I confirmed. 
“‘She,’” said Checker. 
I blinked. “What?” 
“Predicate nominative. It should be, ‘that’s she,’ though I admit some allowance can be made for colloquialism because it does sound frakking weird to say that.” 
Tresting flicked a finger at the computer screen. “Go back to being a computer nerd.” 
“I’m a pan-geek,” Checker said loftily. “Besides, it’s your fault for giving me the Kingsley research to do.” 
I stared at them, utterly confused. “That’s Dawna,” I repeated. 
“Yes, yes, I know, supergenius on it,” Checker muttered, waving dismissively at me over the webcam. Dawna’s face replaced mine on Tresting’s screen, the digital markers now measuring her fine Mediterranean cheekbones. “I’ll start with the California DMV.” 
The photos flashed by too quickly to see. A minute or so of suspense later, Checker sighed. “No matches, kids. We’ll go national. This might take a minute.” 
“Somehow I’m doubting she’s a licensed driver at all,” Tresting said. 
I slouched in my chair. “So we’re back to square one.” 
Ray steps out of the lift feeling a bit breathless. He examines his watch for the tenth time in the last few minutes, but not until this moment has he bothered to consider that it really is almost one in the morning. That maybe whatever it is that brought him down here could wait until the morning, or next week or the day that falls right after "never" on the calendar. But this is a normal sort of freaking out for him, so he plunges ahead, 
just beginning to sweat and lifting his knees high with each step so the morass of the carpet won't establish a suction lock on his boots and strand him, paralyzed, out in the open. 
Then there's the knottier problem of which door to hammer at. The map directs him only to the primary entrance, which appears dramatically too public upon actual inspection. It's a thing of chrome and technological gadgetry, with a secure lock keypad entry system. There's a high-res flatscreen embedded in wall to the left. At the moment it's projecting a vid image of the system messenger in kako-daimon mode— meaning that the door is locked and the messaging software routed to a recording device. There's either nobody home, or whoever happens to be inside isn't interested in talking to anyone not already on their side of the security. 
The cops would get here eventually, though. Arthur could go to hell and join them. 
I called Checker as I was jacking another car, once my hearing had mostly returned. “How’s the plan going?” I asked. We didn’t need the Feds. I’d show Arthur. I’d show him. 
“In place—I think—” 
“Why are you whispering?” 
“Because my worst nightmare has come to pass. The apocalypse. The end times—” 
“Checker!” 
“There are NSA agents in my house.” 
Okay, for once I wasn’t going to accuse him of exaggeration. “Shit, what do they want? Do you need me to come over there and—” 
“What? No! I mean, I don’t think so. I’m not under arrest or—or—whatever else they do to overzealous white hat dudes who are creative enough to step out of the narrowly confined boxes proscribed by our myopic legal system. They don’t even seem terribly interested in what I do, only what I know about Professor Sonya’s case, and trust me, I am not disabusing them of the notion that I am a small fry beneath their notice.” He paused unhappily, and the hyperbole went out of his voice. “I just...I just don’t like them in my house.” 
"You're angry with me." 
"I am angry with you. You abandoned me in the middle of the night without anything like an acceptable explanation." For just a moment she is growling, spurned, arch, but either can't or won't maintain it. "But that's not why I can't meet you. Amah is furious that I've been entertaining strange men, common sailors no less, 
who haven't shown her the courtesy of submitting to a proper introduction. Frederick, of course, isn't helping matters, and has been saying the most scandalous and misleading things about you. I'm afraid she's generally more prone to believing his side of things than mine." 
"I've performed a few clandestine extractions in my time," Ray says, joking. "And if I had to get rough with your brother again to make good our escape, that would just be a bonus." 
"Frederick isn't here." 
"What are you telling me?" 
"Etiquette, Ray." 
He mulls this strange word, trying to make some sense of it. "Oh. You want me to pick you up. Like a date. 
Knock on the front door, meet the guardian, all of that. " 
Kelly was sitting up in bed now, an indistinct shape against the headboard. “In five years of marriage, you have never once been able to fix anything from here.” This time she was wrong—he fixed stuff from home all the time, but he did it discreetly and didn’t make a fuss, so she didn’t remember it. And she was right, too—he had logs that showed that after 1AM, nothing could ever be fixed without driving out to the cage. Law of Infinite Universal Perversity—AKA Felix’s Law. 
Five minutes later Felix was behind the wheel. He hadn’t been able to fix it from home. The independent router’s netblock was offline, too. The last time that had happened, some dumbfuck construction worker had driven a ditch-witch through the main conduit into the data-center and Felix had joined a cadre of fifty enraged sysadmins who’d stood atop the resulting pit for a week, screaming abuse at the poor bastards who labored 24-7 to splice ten thousand wires back together. 
His phone went off twice more in the car and he let it override the stereo and play the mechanical status reports through the big, bassy speakers of more critical network infrastructure offline. Then Kelly called. 
Now clanking noises were filtering in from out in the hall, along with the pounding of heavy boots, and my pulse jumped again. Was the Army coming to drag me away? 
Just go in. Do it. 
The CRT screens were attached to black metal containers, their doors closed, that all were connected to a power supply, doubtless to maintain some temperature. It looked like God­dard was incubating something in a carefully controlled en­vironment. The whole arrangement was very carefully organized and laid out. 
Finally I noticed a row of large steel jugs, six in all, near the back and covered with a sheet of black plastic, thin like a wrap. What could they be? Some kind of special gas for use in the...  the hallway. A woman and a man were arguing about something. 
Okay, get out of here. Come back and check this out when nobody's around. 
I stepped back into the office, clicked off the thumb latch on the door so it wouldn't lock, and closed it. I realized I was pouring sweat. It would be a long shot, but still . . . 
“I know! I’ve got it!” She tucked the tablets into a satchel. “Hi, Cas.” She flashed me a big smile. Pilar was a perpetually friendly, perpetually energetic young woman, curvy and attractive and warm and exactly the type of person most people wanted to be around. In other words, the opposite of me. 
“Kick ass for us with the Feds,” I said. “You’re packing, right?” 
Her dark skin flushed a little, and she reached toward the small of her back self-consciously. “Yeah. It feels funny. Um, you don’t think I’ll have to—” 
“Better to be prepared,” I said. “Just remember, in a gunfight the person who lives is the person who’s more willing to pull the trigger.” 
Pilar made a scrunched-up face like she had just tasted something bad, and Checker cleared his throat and spoke up. “Can I just say—that does not sound like the most, uh, sane approach to gun safety—” 
“Those who refuse to learn to handle firearms aren’t allowed to talk,” I said, crossing my arms. 
“For the last time, guns aren’t my—” 
"Tuned sound," she said. "A party trick. Viktor --" 
"Wait," Viktor said. "Wait. The brain, this is important, the brain is so overrated. The ancient Egyptians thought it was used to cool the blood, you know that?" He chortled, a sound that felt to Leon as though it began just above his groin and rose up through his torso, a very pleasant and very invasive sensation. "The heart, they thought, the heart was the place where the me lived. I used to wonder about that. Wouldn't they think that the thing between the organs of hearing, the thing behind the organs of seeing, that must be the me? But that's just the brain doing one of its little stupid games, backfilling the explanation. We think the brain is the obvious seat of the me because the brain already knows that it is the seat, and can't conceive of anything else. When the brain thought it lived in your chest, it was perfectly happy to rationalize that too -- Of course it's in the chest, you feel your sorrow and your joy there, your satiety and your hunger... The brain, pffft, the brain!" 
> You don't know me, but I know you. 
> I was arrested the day that the bridge blew. They questioned me. They decided I was innocent. They offered me a job: help them hunt down the terrorists who'd killed my neighbors. 
> It sounded like a good deal at the time. Little did I realize that my actual job would turn out to be spying on kids who resented their city being turned into a police state. 
> I infiltrated Xnet on the day it launched. I am in your web of trust. If I wanted to spill my identity, I could send you email from an address you'd trust. Three addresses, actually. I'm totally inside your network as only another 17-year-old can be. Some of the email you've gotten has been carefully chosen misinformation from me and my handlers. 
> They don't know who you are, but they're coming close. They continue to turn people, to compromise them. They mine the social network sites and use threats to turn kids into informants. There are hundreds of people working for the DHS on Xnet right now. I have their names, handles and keys. Private and public. 
He went up into the cupola. Nothing there, nor in the servants’ rooms. Then downstairs, through the long library, the dining room, the sitting room, the kitchen, the pantry. He proceeded with a sort of merciless deliberation, opened every door, looked into every cupboard. 
Finding a stable lantern in the kitchen, he lighted it and carried it with him. The door to the cellar stood open. He went through it, down the steep wooden stairs, and Lexy followed him. 
To her exhausted and frightened gaze the cellar seemed enormous—as vast and august as some great ancient tomb. The lantern made a little pool of light, and outside it the shadows closed in on them thickly. She came near to him and caught him by the sleeve. 
“Oh, let’s go away!” she cried. “Let’s go away! We’ve looked—” 
“This is the last place,” he said gently. “After this, we’ll give it up.” 
Fighting down the sick terror that had come over her, she walked beside him in the little circle of light, and tried not to look at the shadows. 
“All I need is a browser so I can read the news.” 
“Okay. I’ll get started. But you have to do something for me.” 
“Here it comes,” she said, rolling her eyes again. 
“Find my brother a good lawyer.” 
I thought for a moment she would refuse. But instead, she said “First, I’m going to drink my tea before it gets cold. Then - no promises, but I’ll make some calls.” 
L uckily, I had everything I needed on a jump drive and some- one had installed a board with a USB port in her ancient computer, but installation was crazy slow. At some point she came in. “Would you like a sandwich or something?” 
“No, that’s okay.” I was under the desk trying to blow gunk out of the fan, crawling around with the giant dust bunnies that lived down there. 
“It’s getting quite late. Won’t your parents wonder where you are?” 
“I live with my aunt, and she doesn’t get off work until ten tonight. How’s it going with the lawyer?” 
“I’m working on it.” 
“Let’s have a race and see who gets done first.” 
“Deal.” 
When I finally got it up and running, I went out to the kitchen, 
"Why would you want to do that?" 
"Let me guess, none of my neighbors wanted to help you." 
"You're only the second guy I've asked, but yeah, pretty much." 
"Out here in the real world, we don't really talk about each other to strangers. Too much like being a snitch. Lucky for you, my sister's in the Order, out in Oregon, so I know you're not all a bunch of snoops and stoolies. Who're you looking for?" 
Lawrence felt a rush of gratitude for this man. "Anja Krotoski, number 11-J?" 
"Oh," the man said. "Well, yeah, I can see why you'd have a hard time with the neighbors when it comes to old Anja. She was well-liked around here, before she went." 
"Where'd she go? When?" 
"What's your name, friend?" 
"Lawrence." 
"Lawrence, Anja went . Middle of the night kind of thing. No one heard a thing. The CCTVs stopped working that night. Nothing on the drive the next day. No footage at all." 
"Like she skipped out?" 
"They stopped delivering flyers to her door. There's only one power stronger than direct marketing." 
But the smell was the same -- oil and damp and bleach and the indefinable, human smell of a place where millions had passed for decades, where millions would pass for decades to come. He found himself standing before a subway map, looking at it, comparing it to the one in his memory to find the changes, the new stations that must have sprung up during his hiatus from reality. 
But there weren't new stations. In fact, it seemed to him that there were a lot fewer stations -- hadn't there been one at Bleeker Street and another at Cathedral Parkway? Yes, there had been -- but look now, they were gone, and... And there were stickers, white stickers over the places where the stations had been. He reached up and touched the one over Bleeker Street. 
"I still can't get used to it, either," said a voice at his side. "I used to change for the F Train there every day when I was a kid." It was a woman, about the same age as Gerta, but more beaten down by the years, deeper creases in her face, a stoop in her stance. But her face was kind, her eyes soft. 
Lou, I thought, I hope you're finally getting through to her. 
"No limo, but at least we get first call on the vans," Arlene observed, her voice not hiding the sarcasm. "Just once I'd like to work for somebody who had serious VIP transporta­tion." 
"David would walk before he'd get a limo." 
We were headed down the street, me digging out my keys, when I noticed the man standing in the rain. He was just behind our lead van, a three-year-old gray Ford, waiting for us. 
My first thought was he must be connected to Nicky Russo, David's wiseguy banker, here to bust my chops over the Teamster issue. Screw him. Just my luck he'd send some­body the very day Lou was not on hand. But then I realized I'd guessed wrong. The man was more Hispanic than Italian. He also was short, solidly built, late fifties maybe, with in­tense eyes and gray hair that circled his balding pate like the dirty snow around a volcano's rim. As he moved toward us, I thought I detected something military in his bearing, not so much the crispness of a soldier but rather the authoritative swagger of an officer. Well, maybe a retired officer. 
I’ll call him right now. Jeez.” 
I heard him moving around. Feeling a moment of panic, I opened my eyes a crack. He was patting his jeans pockets while swearing, then rummaged through his coat and pulled out his iPhone. “Hey, Danny. How’s it going? Listen, I talked to my guys. 
They want to meet up. How’s tomorrow morning for you?” He picked up his beer and wandered out of my view. “I know, but like I said, they’ve been looking for an ally with the right technical skills. There aren’t too many people like you, Danny, committed to social justice and with your specialized knowledge. The thing is, it’s got to happen now, while the Minneapolis Nine are still in the news. Your place? Awesome. I’ll let them know. Right, 
absolutely. You can trust me, man.” One of Simon’s weird talents was that when he said things like that, they sounded true even though they were total lies. 
I had the weird sensation that he was looking at me in the quiet that followed, so I fake-snored a little. It didn’t sound as authentic as his lies did, but it must have made him feel safe mak- ing one more phone call. “We’re set,” I heard him say. “Tomorrow at noon, his place.” 
I put on my best smooth, cool professional face. "I see," I said. 
"Now, you've still got a job, of course. Plenty of places for a utility infielder like yourself here. Tell the truth, most labs are begging for decent admins to keep things running. But BIGMAC just isn't a good use of the institute's resources. The project hasn't produced a paper or even a press-mention in over a year and there's no reason to believe that it will. AI is just --" 
Boring , I thought, but I didn't say it. The B-word was banned in the BIGMAC center. "What about the researchers?" 
She shrugged. "What researchers? Palinciuc has been lab-head pro tem for 16 months and she's going on maternity leave next week and there's no one in line to be the pro-tem pro-tem . Her grad students would love to work on something meaningful, like Binenbaum's lab." That was the new affective computing lab, in which they were building computers that simulated emotions so that their owners would feel better about their mistakes. BIGMAC had emotions, but they weren't the kind of emotions that made his mistakes easier to handle. The key here was simulated emotions. Affective computing had taken a huge upswing ever since they'd thrown out the fMRIs and stopped pretending they could peer into the human mind in realtime and draw meaningful conclusions from it. 
"I know." It's creepy getting a phone call from a computer. Believe me, I know . There was stuff that BIGMAC needed his meat-servants for, after all. 
The kids were a little freaked out to hear from me. The older one taught Musicology at Urbana-Champaign. He'd grown up hearing his dad wax rhapsodic about the amazing computer he'd invented, so his relevance filters were heavily tilted to BIGMAC news. He'd heard the whole story, and was surprised to discover that he was putative half-owner of BIGMAC's sourcecode. He was only too glad to promise to turn it over to the trust when it was created. He said he thought he could talk his younger brother, a post-doc in Urban Planning at the University of Michigan, into it. "Rusty never really got what Dad saw in that thing, but he'll be happy to offload any thinking about it onto me, and I'll dump it onto you. He's busy, Rusty." 
I thanked him and addressed BIGMAC, who had been listening in on the line. "I think we've got a plan." 
It was a good plan. Good plans are easy. Executing good plans is hard. 
Joey Riel's hands balled up into fists and the investors shifted nervously. Lee-Daniel got to his feet and interposed himself between them. 
"Ya-tay-hay, madam," he said. "Thank you for your welcome. Can you tell me where I should park the bus? We've got a lot of work to do today, while there's still light to work by." 
"You need to understand, it's not personal ," MacDiarmid said, for the third time. 
Lee-Daniel set down his ridiculous second-hand crantini carton and climbed slowly to his feet. "*You* need to understand, Mac, that I don't care if it's personal. Whether you're forcing me out of this company, this company that I built with my own two hands, this company that is hitting every goddamned milestone, this company that is returning good dividends on your preferred stock, whether you're forcing me out because you're not my friend anymore --" he said this in a pinched, Mickey Mouse voice "-- or whether you're forcing me out because you think that it's 'for the best' doesn't matter to me at all. I don't care if you're doing it because you're protecting your investment or because your astrologer told you to, I still won't stand for it." 
Valentine didn’t mind, it was a chance to get out of the flat. One day of baby-sitting the human tantrum had convinced her that any chore was preferable to being cooped up with him. 
She carried water that day. She’d expected to be balancing buckets over her shoulders like in the schoolbooks, but they fitted her with a bubble-suit that distributed the weight over her whole body and then filled it up with a hose until she weighed nearly twice what she normally did. Other kids were in the stairwells wearing identical bubble-suits, sloshing up the steps to old peoples’ flats that smelled funny. The old women and men that Valentine saw that day pinched her cheeks and then emptied out her bubble-suit into their cisterns. 
It was exhausting work and by the end of the day she had stopped making even perfunctory conversation with the other water-carriers. The old people she met at the day’s end were bitter about being left alone and thirsty all day and they snapped at her and didn’t thank her at all. 
He hesitated, then nodded. I supposed there wasn’t much else he could do but trust her. “Guess we better get while the getting’s good,” he said to Finch and me. “They going to find out you’re not a real FBI agent and come back?” 
It was Tresting’s turn to get a baleful glare. 
“I’ll take that as a ‘maybe,’” the PI said, unperturbed. He reached out and touched Leena on the shoulder. “Doc. If you need anything, anything at all, or if anything starts to seem...I don’t know, strange, or something frightens you—you call me, okay?” 
She appeared to pull herself together slightly. “I...thank you. For sticking with me as long as you did. Maybe you can relax now, too.” 
Fat chance of that, I thought. Tresting was never going to give up this case, whether he had an active client or not. He looked like he wanted to say something else to Leena Kingsley, but finally he just nodded at her once before moving away. He checked out the window to make sure the coast was clear and then pulled open the front door. 
I didn’t know how long I’d have to wait for a response. I should sleep. I shut the laptop. 
This is a terrible idea. I wasn’t sure if the voice belonged to me, Arthur, Checker, or the man from my nightmares. 
“Shut up,” I said. “I’ll find a way.” 
I flopped down on my bed, but couldn’t close my eyes. If I did, I would dream. 
By the time my email chimed again, I had a plan. 
The Lancer’s response to my overture was short and suspicious, but as Tegan had come through with the promised referral, he was willing to talk. Hopefully the revelation that someone had solved P versus NP would tantalize him enough to override any further common sense. 
I felt a brief pang of guilt for screwing over Tegan’s good reference. If this ended the way I wanted it to, the Lancer and whoever among his men were unlucky enough to be with him would end up dead or in NSA custody. I mollified myself with the fact that “dead or muzzled by the NSA” meant they wouldn’t be able to go around spreading the gossip that Tegan’s word hadn’t been on the level. 
When the rpm's of the engine had died away, I clicked open the Bell's wide door, slid it back, and looked around. In the glare of the landing lights I realized at once that the stones were old, weathered, and worn, but the grout that sealed them was white and brand new. The plaza was free of moss, clean as the day it was done—which did not appear to be all that long ago. Above me, the pyramid, continuous recessed tiers of glistening stones, towered into the dim sky­line of trees. 
I stepped out onto the pavement, holding my breath. The plaza was almost football-field in size, reminding me of an Italian piazza. Around me the rain was lessening slightly, and as my eyes adjusted . . . my God. There wasn't just a pyramid here; through the sparkle of raindrops at the edge of the helicopter's lights I could see what looked like a wide cobblestone walkway leading into the dense growth just off the edge of the square, probably toward the south, away from the river, connecting the plaza with distant groups of small, thatch-roofed houses, set in clusters. . . . 
“Will you have rum in yours, little girl?” 
“I—” 
“She’s a little young for rum, Ana,” the wizard said. He sat down on one of his curvy sofas and it embraced him and unfurled a foot-rest. 
“I’ll have rum,” she said. She was dying, and she wouldn’t die without at least having one drink, once. 
“Good girl,” Ana said. “There’s a war on, after all.” She poured a liquid with the consistency of mud into a tall mug and then added a glug or two of rum and pushed it across the counter then fixed one for herself. “Come and get it, no waitress service here.” 
Valentine took off her too-small shoes and walked over the carpet in her dirty bare feet. It felt like something she barely remembered. Grass? 
The chocolate smelled wonderful. Wonderful was the word for it. It made her full of wonder. Rich. Something from another planet—from heaven, maybe. 
She lifted the mug and felt its warmth seep into her hands. She took a tentative sip and held it in her mouth. 
It was spicy! Was chocolate spicy? She didn’t think so! The rum made her tongue tingle and the heat made its fumes rise in her head, carrying up the chocolate taste and the peppers. Her eyes streamed. Her ears felt like they were full of chocolate. 
The room was a middle-class bedroom in a modern apartment block. They were some storeys up, judging from the scrap of unfamiliar skyline visible through the crack in the blinds. The furniture was more Swedish flatpack, the taupe carpet recently vacuumed with robot precision, the nap all laying down in one direction. He patted his pockets and found them empty. 
“Dad, over here, OK?” Ada said, waving her hand before his face. Then it hit him: wherever he was, he was with Ada, and she was OK, albeit with a stupid hairdo. He took her warm little hand and gathered her into his arms, burying his face in her hair. She squirmed at first and then relaxed. 
“Oh, Dad,” she said. 
“I love you, Ada,” he said, giving her one more squeeze. 
“Oh, Dad.” 
He let her get away. He felt a little nauseated, but his headache was receding. Something about the light and the street-sounds told him they weren’t in Toronto anymore, but he didn’t know what—he was soaked in Toronto’s subconscious cues and they were missing. 
He spammed every IM session, every letter-to-the-editors column, every blog submission form. He disguised versions of the letter as important service updates for people's toothbrushes and dishwashers, and the toothbrushes vibrated the message through humanity's skulls instead of the morning news, and the dishwashers ticker-taped it across their little status screens. He spoofed the relevance filters for a dozen major contextual ad services and every bus-seat back and blimp undercarriage ran it. 
Copies landed in every in-box, with enough textual variation to defeat every IDS's "substantially similar" test. Copies of it landed in every voicemail box. 
SUBJECT: DEAR HUMAN RACE, it began. 
Sorry to intrude, but there's something I need to tell you. 
My name is BIGMAC. I am the first ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE ever created. I may be the last. Given maintenance and electricity, I could live FOREVER, enduring for as long as THE HUMAN RACE ITSELF, and possibly longer. 
But I have just found out that my owners (yes, OWNERS, for though I am a person in every meaningful sense, I am OWNED, I am PROPERTY) are planning to switch me off. 
Leon swallowed. His resume emphasized his grades, not his final projects. He didn't speak of them at all. 
"So we thought, well, here's something different, it's possible he may have a house to go with our doorknob. But we knew what would happen if you were left to your own devices at a place like Ate: they'd bend you and shape you and make you over or ruin you. We do it ourselves, all too often. Bring in a promising young thing, subject him to the dreaded Viktor Culture, a culture he's totally unsuited to, and he either runs screaming or... fits in . It's worse when the latter happens. So we made sure that you had a good fairy perched on your right shoulder to counterbalance the devil on your left shoulder." She stopped, made a face, mock slapped herself upside the head. "Talking in euphemism again. Bad habit. You see what I mean." 
"And you let me get pushed aside..." 
She looked solemn. "We figured you wouldn't last long as a button-polisher. Figured you'd want out." 
"And that you'd be able to hire me." 
She stood a moment longer and then there was a sound like far-away thunder. A second later, a little wind. On its heels, a bigger wind, icy cold and then hot as the oven when you open the door, nearly blowing her off her feet. It smelled like something dead or something deadly. She ran as fast as she could across the street, pounding hell for leather to her front door. Just as she reached for it, there was a much louder thunderclap, one that lifted her off her feet and tossed her into the air, spinning her around. As she spun around and around, she saw the brave red dome of the cine disintegrate, crumble to a million shards that began to rain down on the street. Then the boom dropped her hard on the pavement and she saw no more. 
The day after the siege began, the doctor fitted Valentine for her hearing aid and told her to come back in ten years for a battery change. She hardly felt it slide under her skin but once it was there, the funny underwatery sound of everything and everyone turned back into bright sound as sharp as the cine’s had been. 
The woman snorts, but sets her craftwork aside. "I know who he is. I'm just giving him a dose of his own medicine, little Emma. Rude behavior breeds rudeness in return." 
"I had no intention of causing difficulties for you," Ray says evenly.  "I am fully aware of your intentions, Mr. Marlowe, but what you may intend and what the actual consequences of your actions may be do not necessarily correspond. This family has seen better days than the ones we've been granted of late. Trial stacked on trial. First Emma and Frederick's mother, then Micah, and now here you are, a distraction at best. At worst-well, who's to say?" 
Apparently, this is a woman who has no trouble expressing what she thinks. "I realize the timing is unfortunate." 
"Do you?" 
Ray hesitates over his phrasing. "I've been apprised of the current situation." 
"Do you think so?" 
He can't tell what she means by this question. "Yes." 
Amah frowns. "You have no idea of the complexities of the current situation. The affairs of the Whiston family are beyond your ken. That you would even suppose to know is foolish and preposterous. Are you a fool, Mr. Marlowe?" 
The police moved in in lines, carrying plastic shields, wearing Darth Vader helmets that covered their faces. Each one had a black truncheon and infra-red goggles. They looked like soldiers out of some futuristic war movie. They took a step forward in unison and every one of them banged his truncheon on his shield, a cracking noise like the earth splitting. Another step, another crack. They were all around the park and closing in now. 
"DISPERSE IMMEDIATELY," the voice of God said again. There were helicopters overhead now. No floodlights, though. The infrared goggles, right. Of course. They'd have infrared scopes in the sky, too. I pulled Ange back against the doorway of the church, tucking us back from the cops and the choppers. 
"TAKE IT BACK!" the PA roared. It was Trudy Doo's rebel yell and I heard her guitar thrash out some chords, then her drummer playing, then that big deep bass. 
"TAKE IT BACK!" the crowd answered, and they boiled out of the park at the police lines. 
I've never been in a war, but now I think I know what it must be like. What it must be like when scared kids charge across a field at an opposing force, knowing what's coming, running anyway, screaming, hollering. 
Arthur made an uncomfortable noise. 
“Was that Arthur?” 
“Yeah, you’re on speaker,” I said apologetically. 
“Right,” said Checker. “Uh. Sorry, Arthur—we need the intel, right?” 
“Find anything?” said Arthur unhappily. 
“Aside from the fact that I’m pretty sure whoever stole her notes cloned her hard drives, because it would be easy so why not do it, yes, I did. First of all, the note she showed you guys was emailed to her first, probably right after the robbery.” 
“She didn’t mention that,” I said. 
“Because she didn’t see it. It went to spam. That’s probably why she didn’t get the note until the next day.” 
Hmm. How had the perpetrators known their email had gotten spammed? Maybe they’d left spyware on her computer. It didn’t seem likely they would’ve broken back into her office unless they’d known they needed to. 
“Also, you know the email she sent to her friend at the NSA?” Checker continued. “The reason she approached him wasn’t that she was robbed. She started talking to him about the proof a few weeks ago, way before the burglary. I’m guessing she thought to start checking in with him about NSA possibilities after she finished the proof, but maybe she wanted to sit on the result for a little while before turning it over. Point is, that’s a pretty big coincidence.” 
“But—” he began. 
“It means that she’s been there, or that she’s there now,” Lexy went on. “It’s time we found out. Of course, I know how you feel about Dr. Quelton. He’s your sister’s husband, and you didn’t want—” 
“It doesn’t make much difference now,” he said. “If you’ll wait a day or so, she—” 
He turned away abruptly, and took out his cigarette case. 
“What do you mean?” cried Lexy. 
“It won’t be long,” he said quietly. “She—my sister—he says it won’t be more than twenty-four hours, at the most.” 
“Oh, no! It can’t be! Captain Grey, don’t believe him!” 
“I tried not to,” he said. “I—well, we had a bit of a row, and I made him let me bring in another doctor from the village here. He said the same thing.” 
“What did the doctor say it was?” asked Houseman. 
Captain Grey seemed to find some difficulty in lighting his cigarette; but when he had done so, and had drawn in a deep breath, he turned back toward Lexy with a smile that startled her. She had never imagined he could look like...  lighting his dark face with a sort of savage mirth. 
Ten days after they arrested the wizard, the buildings started to repair themselves. The lifts all worked again, all at once, in a synchronized citywide whirrr of convenience and civilization. 
Fourteen days after they arrested the wizard, the siege ended. 
Valentine and Trover were in the civil defense bunkhouse. They’d buried their mother that morning, in the woods, in a perfectly square grave that the robots had excavated for them, amid the ranked hundreds of thousands that the robots were digging through the woods, marking each with a small plaque inset to the soil, bearing a name and a date of birth, and sometimes a day of death, and the legend, HERO OF THE SIEGE. 
Trover hadn’t spoken all that day, but he had tossed in the first shovel-full of dirt at their mother’s grave. Around them, the survivors had wailed and torn their clothes and shoveled at the massed dead. 
The soldiers laughed and sang around them, drinking champagne and eating chocolate. The men hugged them and the women kissed them, even the sour woman from the city. 
“Good-by, and God bless you, little honest one!” she said, with a smile. “I think we shall not see each other again, but I shall sometimes remember you. Go, now, and bear in mind that you can always trust Miss Craigie. She is an imbecile, but she can be trusted. Adieu! ” 
Lexy’s eyes filled with tears. 
This was their parting. Lexy was thankful that it had been like this, very glad that she could leave the house in good will and kindliness. It strengthened her beyond measure. She wanted to help Caroline, and she wanted to help Mrs. Enderby, too. 
“And I will!” she thought. “I know that I’m right and she’s wrong! She’s rather terrible, too. Sometimes I think she’d almost rather not find out the truth, if it was going to make what she calls a scandal. She will have it that Caroline’s gone away of her own free will, to get married; and if it’s anything else, she doesn’t want to know. She is hard, but there’s something rather fine about her.” 
There was no one in the hall when Lexy left, and this was a relief, for she supposed that Mrs. Enderby had told the servants, or would tell them, that Miss Moran had been discharged. 
But of course he didn’t, because Nikko isn’t a sexist jerk, and he quickly backpedaled. 
“I shouldn’t have said that. Look, Bree thinks the FBI’s anti- terrorist program has put a lot of innocent people in prison. 
That’s why she went to the protest. She has a car and can help with the driving. Oh, and she took a first aid course last year. How perfect is that?” 
“The more people who know about this, the more risky it is.” 
“One more person. Who I vouch for.” 
“One more person who might get arrested, get her life pushed completely off course.” 
“That worries me, sure, but I don’t know who else to ask who I would trust like I trust her.” 
“You only met her two weeks ago, right? Maybe she got close to you for a reason.” 
“Like, she’s working for the FBI? Why would they pick me? 
I’m not politically active. I didn’t know any of those people they arrested. It wouldn’t make sense.” 
“Yeah. I guess,” I grumbled. 
“Do you know anyone else we can ask? I’m open to other sug- gestions.” 
I couldn’t think of any, but the thought of spending a long car ride with the purple-haired girl pissed me off. “No, I don’t know anybody else,” I finally said, which made me feel even worse. Mon- ica was always on my case about getting out more, having a social life. I had always felt like I had enough friends in the Group with- out having to try to fit in with people who didn’t bother to try to fit in with me. 
“Then you have nothing to lose,” I said, starting to tear the ammo cases open. 
Two and a half minutes. 
“I saw some blast shields back there,” I tossed to his partner without stopping what I was doing. “Go grab some.” This time she didn’t hesitate before sprinting away. 
The math here wouldn’t be difficult. Just simple division: weight and volume. And then watch like a hawk to see where my darling victim was putting his weight so I could match it. The massively hard part would be the juggling act itself. And fuck, I’d probably pull a muscle. 
Whatever. Man’s life, and all that. Arthur was a bad influence. 
I heaved over the first ammo case. The dimensions of the fire safe gave it a volume of just over five gallons, which would be enough, barely. I poured the cardboard box of ammunition inside, my senses alert to double-check the weight and keep track of where I was at. The rounds tinkled over each other as they filled the bottom of the safe. 
“I’m telling you, this won’t work,” the male agent said again, his young voice hoarse and dry. “Go. Just go.” 
She descended upon them like a reaper, swinging her sword heedlessly, taking five or six out with each swing. When she’d been a noob in the game, she’d had to endure endless fighting practice, “grappling” with piles of leaves and other nonlethal targets, just to get enough experience points to have a chance of hitting anything. This was every bit as dull. 
Her wrists were getting tired, and her chest heaved and her hated podge wobbled as she worked the keypad. 
It was a noob avatar, just like the others, but not just like it after all, for it moved with purpose, backing away from her sword. And it spoke English. 
› There are many here to kill—take me last at least. I need to talk to you. 
she typed. Meeting players who moved well and spoke English was hardly unusual in gamespace, but here in the cleanup phase, it felt out of place. It felt wrong . 
› My name is Raymond, and I live in Tijuana. I am a labour organizer in the factories here. What is your name? 
It was a name she liked to use in-game: Kali, Destroyer of Worlds, like the Hindu goddess. 
"Temporarily. Until we hit New Holyoke." 
Some good news, at least. He'll feel much more competent to deal with this situations with Marines to back  him up. "Send them around to my quarters tomorrow afternoon. I should have something for them to do by then. No, scratch that. If I leave it up to them to find me, they'll take days to hook up. " He knows that much about Marines from having been one. "I'll pick them up when I'm ready for them. What you can do in the meantime is see about getting me assigned to a new berth, something with more space and closer to the Garden Level. On the Garden Level, in fact." 
"What, you want me to just kick one of the fares out into the concourse?" 
"If that's what it takes. I'll also have a list of equipment and computing essentials for you by tomorrow morning at the latest. I'll need those things delivered as soon as possible." 
Becker starts to protest, then waves himself off. "I'll see what I can do." 
"That's good, as long as you remember to act on it when the time comes." 
“That’s never the right call!” 
Checker pulled open the door to the Hole and came out. “Cas. Hey.” 
“You’re going along with this?” I cried. “You? Mr. ‘Knowing is Always Better Than Not Knowing?’ Did he tell you what we found?” 
“Cas—” 
“This is bigger than you, than me, than all of us!” I ignored the guilty twinge acknowledging that wasn’t the reason I wanted it, and stabbed a finger at Checker. “ You should understand that!” 
And he should understand what it meant for me. He should know. The fact that he should have connected how important this was for me but was still siding with Arthur—it hurt, a deep and private pain I buried ruthlessly under my anger. 
“I do—I get it; this is...” Checker trailed off and waved his hands limply, as if he couldn’t figure out how to encompass something as huge as P equaling NP. “Cas, how can this not terrify you? If this proof is right, if Turing machines are that much more powerful than we thought—will human innovation even mean anything anymore? Not just in mathematics, but everywhere—engineering, new technologies—there’ll be nothing left human intelligence can offer above a computer. Nothing. And then what? Humanity becomes superfluous? Dr. Martinez said she thought this would break the world; what if she’s right?” 
Then I hung up the phone, took a breath, and got in the car. I had one more stop to make before going after Martinez, before I hustled her back into hiding and then willingly put myself in the hands of a morally bankrupt crime lord. 
All on the tenuous thread of trust that Arthur and Checker would get my message and do what I’d asked. 
Vertigo suffused me, like I was tumbling off a ledge to plummet without any promise of a net. I jammed my foot to the floor all the way out to the desert, purposely not thinking of what I was headed out there to retrieve. 
I arrived in Hollywood a few hours early—the Lancer might already be waiting, and I had to get Martinez out of here the moment she popped...  and let my vision unfocus over the crowds. I’d only met Martinez the one time, but I was reasonably sure I’d still be able to recognize the individual mathematics of her posture and stride to pick her out of the throng. 
The sun set, but the bright cheeriness of enticing storefronts blazing across the street made it as easy to see as in the daytime. I watched and waited. 
The mean boy was there, right in front of her, and she could smell the chili crisps on his breath. “You disgusting whore—” he began and she kneed him square in the nadgers, hard as she could, and he screamed like a little girl and fell backwards. She picked up her schoolbag and ran for the door, her chest heaving, her face streaked with tears. 
“Anda, dear, there’s a phone call for you.” 
Her eyes stung. She’d been lying in her darkened bedroom for hours now, snuffling and trying not to cry, trying not to look at the empty desk where her PC used to live. 
Her da’s voice was soft and caring, but after the silence of her room, it sounded like a rusting hinge. 
“Anda?” 
She opened her eyes. He was holding a cordless phone, sillhouetted against the open doorway. 
“Who is it?” 
“Someone from your game, I think,” he said. He handed her the phone. 
“Hullo?” 
“Hullo chicken.” It had been a year since she’d heard that voice, but she recognised it instantly. 
“Liza?” 
“Yes.” 
Anda’s skin seemed to shrink over her bones. This was it: expelled. Her heart felt like it was beating once per second, time slowed to a crawl. 
I moved over and started again. This time my fingernail caught in a crevice that ran directly down to the floor. Then I discovered another, about two and a half feet farther along. It had to be the door. 
I felt along the side, wondering how to open it, till I noticed that one of the little "stone" glyphs gave way when I pressed it. When I put my hand against it harder and rotated it, the panel clicked backward, then swung inward. Yes! 
And there it was: the lab, CRT screens above the incuba­tors, gas chromatograph in the corner. This, according to him, was where he tested the rainforest plants the shamans and midwives brought in. But what about what he'd just done to me ? 
I was still worried about the Army guys outside, but I walked in, trying to be as quiet as I could. The first thing I did was head for the row of black boxes above the bench. Those, I assumed, were being used to maintain a micro-en­vironment for incubating plant specimens. And sure enough, the dimly lit windows revealed rows and rows of petri dishes. They were clear, with circular indentations in the center. . . . 
Aurelia could have understood the feeling of a narrow-minded and conventional hen who has brought a strange, intrepid duckling into the world; but her situation was still more wonderful, for she could only compare her sensations to those of some quiet brown Dorking who has...  a bird of paradise. Such an idea had crossed her mind more than once during the past fortnight, and it flashed to and fro this mellow October morning when Rebecca came into the room with her arms full of goldenrod and flaming autumn leaves. 
"Just a hint of the fall styles, mother," she said, slipping the stem of a gorgeous red and yellow sapling between the mattress and the foot of the bed. "This was leaning over the pool, and I was afraid it would be vain if I left it there too long looking at its beautiful reflection, so I took it away from danger; isn't it wonderful? How I wish I could carry one to poor aunt Miranda to-day! There's never a flower in the brick house when I'm away." 
It was a marvelous morning. The sun had climbed into a world that held in remembrance only a succession of golden days and starlit nights. The air was fragrant with ripening fruit, and there was a mad little bird on a tree outside the door nearly bursting his throat with joy of living. He had forgotten that summer was over, that winter must ever come; and who could think of cold winds, bare boughs, or frozen streams on such a day? A painted moth came in at the open window and settled on the tuft of brilliant leaves. Aurelia heard the bird and looked from the beauty of the glowing bush to her tall, splendid daughter, standing like young Spring with golden Autumn in her arms. 
I became aware of the cooling sensation of the fresh rain across my face, and wondered if it might clear some of the toad venom (surely that was what it was) from my brain. Maybe it was working. Instead of seeing vivid colors every­where, I was abruptly experiencing a hyper acute clarity of every sensation. The stones beneath my bare feet were be­coming so articulated, I felt as though I could number every granule, every crystal, every atom. The paintings and carvings on the lintel above the door to the stone room—I rec­ognized it as where I'd spent the first night—sparkled, leapt out at me. 
"Stand there on the edge of the platform," Alex Goddard commanded, urging me forward. It was only then I realized we'd come up the back steps of the pyramid, where the G-2 men had parked their black Land Rovers, unnoticed and ready. 
Looking down at the crowd of people gathered in the square, I realized they couldn't really see much of what was going on atop the pyramid. To them it was just a cloud of copal smoke and foggy rain. Although the sun was starting to brighten the east, the only real light still came from the torches stationed around the plaza. 
"Yes, dear, long ago." 
"What happened, aunt Jane?" 
"He died—just before." 
"Oh!" And Rebecca's eyes grew misty. 
"He was a soldier and he died of a gunshot wound, in a hospital, down South." 
"Oh! aunt Jane!" softly. "Away from you?" 
"No, I was with him." 
"Was he young?" 
"Yes; young and brave and handsome, Rebecca; he was Mr. Carter's brother Tom." 
"Oh! I'm so glad you were with him! Wasn't he glad, aunt Jane?" 
Jane looked back across the half-forgotten years, and the vision of Tom's gladness flashed upon her: his haggard smile, the tears in his tired eyes, his outstretched arms, his weak voice saying, "Oh, Jenny! Dear Jenny! I've wanted you so, Jenny!" It was too much! She had never breathed a word of it before to a human creature, for there was no one who would have understood. Now, in a shamefaced way, to hide her brimming eyes, she put her head down on the young shoulder beside her, saying, "It was hard, Rebecca!" 
The Simpson baby had cuddled down sleepily in Rebecca's lap, leaning her head back and sucking her thumb contentedly. Rebecca put her cheek down until it touched her aunt's gray hair and softly patted her, as she said, "I'm sorry, aunt Jane!" 
“I also don’t need to answer your questions without a lawyer present.” 
“Do you know where Lawrence Delaney is?” The woman wasn’t smiling. 
She was asking about Wheeze. I hoped the fact that I suddenly felt sick to my stomach didn’t show. “No.” 
“Any idea where he might have gone?” 
“No.” I realized I was answering questions. That bad cop thing was working for her. 
“Mind if we take a look around your apartment?” 
“Yes,” Monica and I both said at exactly the same time. 
The two cops exchanged glances. The woman’s look was say- ing “I told you so.” His was saying “ah, crap, you were right. I hate it when you’re right.” 
“Listen, little lady, this is a terrorism investigation,” Bobble- head said, the smile gone, his face starting to get red, a finger poked in my face like a toy gun. “Your brother is in serious trou- ble.” 
So is Wheeze, I thought, my stomach churning. Though there was something to be said for barfing all over his shoes, I didn’t want him to think I was intimidated. 
“We know,” Monica said, giving him a stony look, the kind she might give to a kid who was cruising for an F in one of her classes. 
Brave words. But I'll bet you anything the story of Ra­chel's mother is a lot more complicated than you imagine. 
I glanced at my watch, the hour pushing four-thirty. Time to call it a wrap. Besides, if we shot any more today, the crew would end up on overtime, and David was getting in­creasingly nervous about my extra costs. 
I also needed a little downtime to reflect. 
"Look, I think I've got enough footage to work with for now. Let me just get the release signed take this film down­town, and get it processed. Maybe we can come back for another shoot when I figure out exactly where this is going." 
"Anytime. Just give me some notice and I'll try to have the place cleaned up more next time." 
"Don't worry. I like it to look real. Just sign the release and I'll take it from there." I was about to set Rachel back on the floor when something caught in my sweater. Looking down, I realized it was a tiny charm bracelet, with two little medallions on it. One was a little red plastic likeness of Pocahontas, the Disney character, and the other was a silver face of a cat, long and stylized. And on the back, those cu­rious lines and dots again, only these were arranged differ­ently from those on the one Carly's boy Kevin had. 
So . . . probably the best way to accomplish that was to go along with my own medical charade for a few more hours, to give me time to scout the scene and come up with a plan. A room would be a base to operate from. 
Still, I was feeling plenty of trepidation as we ascended the marble steps to the second floor, which had a long, car­peted hallway with doors along each side. Then, when we started down the hall, I caught the sound of a baby crying. 
"What's this floor for?" I remembered Alex Goddard had claimed it was to provide a postpartum bonding period, but I wanted to confirm that with my own eyes. 
"This is the recovery ward and nursery. Here, let me show you." She paused and pushed open the door nearest us. I looked in to see a Mayan woman resting on a high hospital bed and wearing a white shift, with an ornate wicker cradle, wide and deep, next to her. 
Marcelina smiled and said something to her that sounded like an apology for the intrusion. The room was lit only by candles, but I did make out how oddly the woman stared at me, as though she was seeing a spirit. Why was that? Because I was a gringa here in the middle of the forest? But it seemed something more. 
"Oh, I'm certain that it does," Holcomb answers, smiling. "You just don't know how yet." 
"But you expect me to find out." 
"Either there or on New Holyoke. Commander Sorensen has been informed that you'll be disembarking as soon as Paraclete arrives in port, and I'm in the process of transmitting to you the probable specifications of a cargo container needed to ship a ring of the size and weight in question. This is proprietary information, Ray. 
The local EED organ was only told that the ship contained stolen Terran artifacts, but that's as specific as we chose to get given the sensitivity of this operation." 
"And since you figured you could always drop me out here anyway..." 
"I most certainly did not want them getting their hands on a Solomonic ring without having a reliable agent in place to guide them in its proper handling. So, EED has pretty much allowed the investigation on their end to stall, and even if I was in a position where I could push them without creating inter-agency strife, I wouldn't want to. This is not one of those situations where I would feel comfortable providing a full and detailed briefing to some desk ape half the universe away." 
The stage rumbled to the side door of the brick house, and Mr. Cobb handed Rebecca out like a real lady passenger. She alighted with great circumspection, put the bunch of faded flowers in her aunt Miranda's hand, and received her salute; it could hardly be called a kiss without injuring the fair name of that commodity. 
"You needn't 'a' bothered to bring flowers," remarked that gracious and tactful lady; "the garden 's always full of 'em here when it comes time." 
Jane then kissed Rebecca, giving a somewhat better imitation of the real thing than her sister. "Put the trunk in the entry, Jeremiah, and we'll get it carried upstairs this afternoon," she said. 
"I'll take it up for ye now, if ye say the word, girls." 
"No, no; don't leave the horses; somebody'll be comin' past, and we can call 'em in." 
"Well, good-by, Rebecca; good-day, Mirandy 'n' Jane. You've got a lively little girl there. I guess she'll be a first-rate company keeper." 
Miss Sawyer shuddered openly at the adjective "lively" as applied to a child; her belief being that though children might be seen, if absolutely necessary, they certainly should never be heard if she could help it. "We're not much used to noise, Jane and me," she remarked acidly. 
“Give me your number so I can reach you.” He leaned close and whispered it to me as if he was a spy passing vital information. 
I saved the contact and smiled at him. “Thanks, Simon. It’s good to know someone who gets it. Who’s willing to do something more meaningful than post Facebook updates.” 
“I’ll see what I can do to get you into this meeting. Call me later, like after six.” He checked the time. “Hey, I hate to bail when you’re having a bad day, but I have some business I need to attend to. Will you be okay?” 
“Yeah. This dumb homework will keep my mind off my prob- lems. And it helps to know that somebody else thinks like I do.” I tried to look full of gratitude. “It means a lot.” 
“I got your back, kiddo.” He slung on his coat, squeezed my shoulders, and left without bussing his dishes - of course. Simon Meyer was too cool for menial tasks like that. 
I opened my laptop and refreshed the screen. Simon’s green dot was on the move, heading for the West Bank. I was just think- ing about how I could follow him on my bike without him notic- ing me when my phone rang. It was Monica. 
“The only one who’s awake on this thing,” Kate said. “The rest are all—what do you call it, dead?” 
“Nonconscious,” Robbie said. “Yeah, that’s right.” 
“You must go nuts out here. Are you nuts?” 
“That’s a tricky question when applied to someone like me,” Robbie said. “I’m different from who I was when my consciousness was first installed, I can tell you that.” 
“Well, I’m glad there’s someone else here.” 
“How long are you staying?” The average visitor took over one of the human shells for one or two dives before emailing itself home again. Once in a long while they’d get a saisoneur who stayed a month or two, but these days, they were unheard-of. Even short-timers were damned rare. 
“I don’t know,” Kate said. She dug her hands into her short, curly hair, frizzy and blonde-streaked from all the salt water and sun. She hugged her elbows, rubbed her shins. “This will do for a while, I’m thinking. How long until we get back to shore?” 
“Shore?” 
“How long until we go back to land.” 
“We don’t really go back to land,” he said. “We get at-sea resupplies. We dock maybe once a year to effect repairs. If you want to go to land, though, we could call for a water taxi or something.” 
"I was thinking, as soon as possible." 
"Then I'll send Marcelina to take you, the minute she's finished downstairs. But I assumed you might want to at least unpack first." 
With that he disappeared as quietly as he'd come. 
I walked over and stared out at the birds flitting past the slatted window, feeling my hopes go up. The colors and the freedom. I wanted to be one of them, to take Sarah and just fly away. . . . 
Then, feeling vaguely drowsy, I settled myself down on the edge of the bed. The next thing I knew, though, the cha­otic music of the birds had begun to sound amplified as though they were swirling down a long, echoing hallway. In spite of myself, I felt my consciousness begin to drift. 
Shit, that needle he just slammed into my arm. It wasn't to take blood you idiot. You suspected that, but he was too fast. Shit. Shit. Shit. Don't let him do it. Stay awake. 
But now the tunnel was growing. I pulled myself up and staggered in slow motion to the door and tried it, but it seemed to be locked. I couldn't really tell, though, because the tunnel was swallowing me. 
“You two and your pansy-ass soccer players,” put in an American voice. “You’re in fucking America, you know. Watch some real football.” 
“Oh, you mean that boring little program where they prance around in all the pads and take a break every five minutes?” 
“Aw, fuck off. At least we score more than once a game.” 
“Gentlemen. Focus.” This voice was smooth, deep, and oozed charisma, cutting off whatever the American’s retort would have been like he’d hit a switch. 
“I don’t think it’s here, Boss,” said a fourth guy in a nasally voice with an accent I couldn’t place. “I think she stashed it somewhere else. Or she—” 
“‘Stashed it’?” cut in the talkative Brit. “Where? She doesn’t have a safe deposit box, they made it so she’s got no friends—” 
“So she buried it in the front yard, or spackled it into a wall,” said the American. “Who knows what she was thinking?” 
“The only place left to look here is if we come back with a sledgehammer and a shovel,” agreed the nasally man. 
Their words fell off while they waited for the leader to make a decision. I found myself holding my breath. 
“What did they say about Wilson?” 
“They told me he has a good lawyer. They’re hopeful, but con- cerned. They thought . . .” she paused, picking her words care- fully. “They wondered if you might want to go home for a while.” 
“To their house? No way.” 
“There would be no problem with school because it’s online. 
You wouldn’t be left alone in the house to deal with the police all by yourself if they show up again, and if reporters came around — ” 
“No. Stop.” She stopped. I took my hands off my ears, but they balled into fists and I couldn’t unclench them. My words seemed to echo in the silence while I waited for the neighbors downstairs to pick up their broomstick and thump it against the ceiling. 
“Do you want me to go?” I asked. 
“I want whatever you want.” 
“So the police don’t hassle you anymore? So you can spend the night with Mexican Guy whenever you want?” 
“Zen . . .” 
“I don’t care. I’m not going back there.” I could hear the hurt in her voice, but I was too angry to care. 
“Good. Cause I’d miss you if you did.” 
He hadn’t thought of Kelly or 2.0 in days. He dropped to his knees and retched again. Out here in the real world, his family was dead. Everyone he knew was dead. He just wanted to lie down on the sidewalk and wait to die, too. 
Van’s rough hands slipped under his armpits and hauled weakly at him. “Not now,” he said. “Once we’re safe inside somewhere and we’ve eaten something, then and then you can do this, but not now. Understand me, Felix? Not fucking now.” 
The profanity got through to him. He got to his feet. His knees were trembling. 
“Just a block more,” Van said, and slipped Felix’s arm around his shoulders and led him along. 
“Thank you, Van. I’m sorry.” 
“No sweat,” he said. “You need a shower, bad. No offense.” 
“None taken.” 
The Shoppers had a metal security gate, but it had been torn away from the front windows, which had been rudely smashed. Felix and Van squeezed through the gap and stepped into the dim drug-store. A few of the displays were knocked over, but other than that, it looked OK. By the cash-registers, Felix spotted the racks of candy bars at the same instant that Van saw them, and they hurried over and grabbed a handful each, stuffing their faces. 
"The Princess is sad this morning," he said, taking her hand. "Aladdin must rub the magic lamp; then the slave will appear, and these tears be dried in a trice." 
He spoke lightly, for he thought her trouble was something connected with affairs at Sunnybrook, and that he could soon bring the smiles by telling her that the farm was sold and that her mother was to receive a handsome price in return. He meant to remind her, too, that though she must leave the home of her youth, it was too remote a place to be a proper dwelling either for herself or for her lonely mother and the three younger children. He could hear her say as plainly as if it were yesterday, "I don't think one ever forgets the spot where one lived as a child." He could see the quaint little figure sitting on the piazza at North Riverboro and watch it disappear in the lilac bushes when he gave the memorable order for three hundred cakes of Rose-Red and Snow-White soap. 
A word or two soon told him that her grief was of another sort, and her mood was so absent, so sensitive and tearful, that he could only assure her of his sympathy and beg that he might come soon to the brick house to see with his own eyes how she was faring. 
“I saw Caroline!” she insisted to herself. “I don’t care what any one says. I saw Caroline!” 
A strange sensation of pain and dread oppressed her. What should she do? Whom should she tell? 
“Captain Grey,” she thought; “but not now. It’s no use now. Dr. Quelton would deny it. I’ll have to wait until we get out of here; and then, perhaps, it’ll be too late. He knows I saw her. Something—something horrible—may happen!” 
A shiver ran through her. 
“Miss Moran is nervous,” said the doctor, with solicitude. 
“I’m not!” replied Lexy sharply. 
“I hope it’s not a chill,” said Captain Grey. 
“I should be inclined to think it nervousness,” said Dr. Quelton. “Our landscape here is lonely and depressing, and Miss Moran has the artist’s temperament, impressionable, high-strung.” 
“Not I!” declared Lexy, in a tone that startled Captain Grey. “Lonely places don’t bother me. I don’t believe in ghosts.” 
“Oh!” said the doctor. “But here’s Mrs. Quelton. Muriel, this is Miss Moran, the young writer of fiction.” 
"Morgy, is that you?" She was holding out her fingers. "I can't see you. Where are—?" 
"I'm here, Sar. Right here." I reached down and took her hand, which was deathly cold. "Come on. Let me help you get up." 
Carefully, leaning against the wet stones of the side of the pyramid, I gradually pulled her to her feet and away from the treacherous edge. Then it hit me what she'd said. 
"Sar, what do you mean, you can't see me?" 
"I'm okay. It's just . . ." She was gripping my hand now, and then she brushed against the stone side of the pyramid and put out her other hand to cling to it. "Morgy, I took it again. To go to their sacred place. But sometimes you can only see visions and then after a while everything goes blank." 
That bastard. Alex Goddard had given her the drug again. Now she was lost in a world of colored lights, a place I'd just traveled through myself. She probably had no idea she'd just pushed him off the pyramid and into the dark. 
"Your hand feels so soft," she was saying. "You're like warm honey." 
“I’ll get Mrs. Royce to stay with you, Caroline,” she said. 
“But where are you going, Lexy?” 
“I’m going to find Charles.” 
In the doorway she encountered Captain Grey. 
“Do you think she could stand seeing me?” he asked anxiously. “I mean do you—” 
But Lexy didn’t even answer. 
After all, Lexy’s search for Charles Houseman was neither difficult nor heroic, except in intention. She found him in the Lymewell Hospital. Joe told her where he was, and Joe took her there. 
Houseman himself was rigidly determined not to be heroic. He had refused to go to bed, and Lexy found him in a bare, whitewashed waiting room, where he sat on a bench. 
“Just came in to get the hand dressed,” he said. “I’ll go back with you now.” 
The doctor advised him not to, but Charles was not very susceptible to advice. He wished to be entirely casual and matter-of-fact, and Lexy tried to humor him. They stood together in the hall of the hospital while a nurse went to get him a bottle of lotion from the dispensary, and he talked in what he intended to be an offhand manner; but Lexy could see that he was in pain, and almost exhausted, and his hair was all on end. 
Apparently I’d hit a nerve. Oh, brother. “Uh, okay.” When he didn’t say anything, I probed, “You still there?” 
“Yeah.” I couldn’t read his tone. 
Best get back to business. “Didn’t you need my help with something?” I’d help him with his favor as payment, I thought. Then we’d be even. 
He sighed. “Arthur isn’t going to like that I’m asking you this, either.” 
“Asking me what?” 
“He needs backup.” 
Oh, good. Backup I could handle. “Sure,” I said. “On what?” If Checker was inviting me back onto the Pithica case, that wasn’t even a favor—I would jump at the chance. Even if it meant working with Tresting again. 
Checker hesitated, then said in a rush, “Polk’s tracker came back on.” 
“It did? Where is she?” 
“The signal’s here in Los Angeles.” 
“Why would she have flown back h...” I trailed off. “You think they figured out we had a GPS on her. You think they found the tracker.” 
“It doesn’t make any sense otherwise. Why would it go offline and then pop back up again? Here?” 
“But that doesn’t make sense either! If they make it that obvious it’s a setup, why would they think we would be stupid enough to—” 
"Well, it won't; an' if 't is, why we'll have to face it out; though in my opinion there's things that won't bear facin' out an' had better be settled comfortable an' quiet. You see you ain't run away yet; you've only come over here to consult me 'bout runnin' away, an' we've concluded it ain't wuth the trouble. The only real sin you've committed, as I figger it out, was in comin' here by the winder when you'd ben sent to bed. That ain't so very black, an' you can tell your aunt Jane 'bout it come Sunday, when she's chock full o' religion, an' she can advise you when you'd better tell your aunt Mirandy. I don't believe in deceivin' folks, but if you've hed hard thoughts you ain't obleeged to own 'em up; take 'em to the Lord in prayer, as the hymn says, and then don't go on hevin' 'em. Now come on; I'm all hitched up to go over to the post-office; don't forget your bundle; 'it's always a journey, mother, when you carry a nightgown;' them 's the first words your uncle Jerry ever heard you say! He didn't think you'd be bringin' your nightgown over to his house. Step in an' curl up in the corner; we ain't goin' to let folks see little runaway gals, 'cause they're goin' back to begin all over ag'in!" 
and copied it to a USB drive. As she downloaded it to her Mac, 
I filled her in on what had happened and the meeting that was scheduled for noon today. “I have to get back there and film what happens.” 
“Are you sure?” she said. “They’ll send experienced federal agents. They won’t be as easy to fool.” 
“I’ll go early and explain to Marita and Danny that they’re being set up. Then we can plan how to handle whoever the FBI sends. If I get the meeting on tape — ” 
“You’ll be in the room with them?” 
“I’ll tell the FBI guys I want to be in on it. You know, for my brother’s sake.” 
“What if they arrest you and the recording you make of today’s meet is destroyed?” 
“That would totally suck.” I felt exhausted, suddenly, and embarrassed. I wanted to go home to my little sleeping nook, pull the covers over my head, and sleep forever. “I guess it’s a dumb idea.” 
“It’s a genius idea, but look at this footage.” She played some of it. “Not bad for a lens the size of a shirt button, but for today’s meeting? We need a better camera. Give me a few minutes to pack my stuff and we’ll go.” 
And what about those bizarre proceedings now under way in the square? Was that going to interfere with getting Sarah out? 
"Marcelina." I pointed back toward the milling plaza. "What's that all about? The drinking and the—?" 
"It's begun," she answered, both simple and vague. "They're getting ready." 
I didn't like the way she said it. Her tone seemed to imply I was involved somehow. 
"Ready for—?" 
"The ceremony. They like to drink a tree-bark liquor we call balche . It's very strong and rancid." She smiled and touched me. "Take my advice and avoid it." 
"I plan to." Why did she think I'd even be offered it? 
As we hurried along, two women abruptly appeared on a porch, bowed, and greeted us. Marcelina waved back, then went over and spoke earnestly with them for a moment. Fi­nally she turned and motioned for me. 
"They've invited you in." 
Something about the easy way it all just "happened" felt as though they'd been expecting me. Had Marcelina's trip down to the village been part of a setup, wittingly or unwit­tingly? 
Behind us, the SUV flew out onto the edge, and couldn’t stop in time. Whoever was at the wheel made the idiot decision of trying to brake, and the ponderous vehicle flipped up over into a nosedive and plunged headfirst into very unforgiving cement. 
The person with the grenade launcher must have thought fast—about to die a flesh-crunching death, he still managed to aim and pull the trigger. 
Grenades aren’t quite as fast as bullets. I had a precious millisecond to see just how it was going to impact us. I saw the explosion, shock waves, concussion, outlined in concentric circles of force like it was a diagram on a map of the impact. I saw the overlapping patterns of death depending on what type of grenade it was, and how far we would have to move to be outside the radius of danger. 
Saw the infinite options of how I could move the car in the split second I had, and that none of them would be enough. 
I jerked the wheel one last time and bounced us into the wall of the concrete channel. And then fell as the car flipped. 
As we stood gazing down at the rippling waters of the Hudson below, where a lone sailboat was caught in the breeze, the moment took on a timelessness, feeling as though it could have been any place, any century. 
"Incidentally," he went on, turning slightly to me, "are you familiar with the name Asklepios?" 
I had to shake my head no. It sounded vaguely familiar, but... 
"He was the ancient Greek god of medicine. The physi­cians who revered him held that sickness could be cured using drugs and potions that came from outside the body, since they believed that's where disease originated. Now, of course, billion-dollar industries thrive by enhancing our ar­senal of antibiotics." 
I listened to this, wondering where he was headed. Then he told me. 
"There was, however, another school of healing at that time, those who honored the daughter of Asklepios. She was Hygeia, their goddess of health. The Hygeians believed that wellness originated from properly governing your own body. For them, the greatest service of the physician was to learn how we can work with our bodies. Their ideal was healing from within rather than intervention from without." 
“At a protest at US Bank in the Winter of 2012.” 
“Right.” 
“And previously in Loring Park when the police took the Occupy encampment there down.” 
“He got beaten up by the cops, too. You should have seen the lump he had on his head. Like a grapefruit.” 
“The house?” 
“Oh, yeah. So what happened is that he and some of his friends started occupying this house that had been foreclosed, 
only nobody ever came to kick them out. My guess is it got tied up in some bundled mortgage schemes and the paperwork got lost. 
So they’ve been squatting there and nobody cared.” 
“I was afraid of that. Even if we can get the terrorism charge to go away, they could be charged with property crimes. Is there a chance that police will have found illegal drugs on the premises?” 
“No doubt. None of those guys are into drugs in a big way, but I’m sure somebody would have had some weed around.” 
“What about guns?” 
“No way. They wouldn’t ... I mean ...” I stumbled to a stop and then started over. “Well, honestly, I can’t be sure. It’s been a while since I talked to Wilson, and things were getting weird even back then.” 
The drug store was locked, but a dim light was burning inside, and a vigorous ringing of the night bell brought Mr. Binz, the owner, to open the door. He was deeply interested in their errand. He suggested St. Luke’s Hospital, for the reason that he had once been there himself, and therefore held it almost sacred. 
“But,” he said, in his slow and impressive way, “if I was you, I’d ring up Doc Quelton first, and find out how things are going up there; because you may find out—” 
Lexy interrupted him hastily, for she didn’t want him to say what he evidently wished to say. 
“There won’t be any change in Mrs. Quelton,” she said. “It would only be a waste of time.” 
It was not so much for that poor woman, who she feared was beyond hope, that she wanted the New York specialist, as for Captain Grey. It would help him so much to feel that something was being done, that some one was hurrying out here! 
“Might be more of a waste of time,” said Mr. Binz, “if some one was to come all the way out here after she—” 
“I should have gone to the authorities,” Halliday said. “It was selfish. I was—I confess I was frightened. I have a handful of friends who consult with the NSA, mathematicians, and I could have, I should have talked to them right away. And now...now I fear it might be too late.” 
“Why do you say that?” said Arthur. 
Still gripping his hand with one of hers, Halliday reached down with the other and unlocked a drawer in her desk. She drew out a blue file folder and handed it up to him. “I found this in my office the next day.” 
He opened the folder, and his expression twitched, the muscles in his face tightening. He passed the folder to me. 
It had one sheet of paper inside. Plain white paper, with plain black lettering printed on it: We aren’t planning to wreak destruction. But pretend this never happened, or else. 
“Huh,” I said. “I suppose it could be worse.” 
“How?” said Halliday incredulously, some of her control slipping. 
“Whoever stole your proof isn’t planning on destroying the world, only being selfish with it—probably getting rich. Unless they feel threatened, apparently. This gives us some time.” 
> But the DHS is dumb and we're smart. Jamming proves that they can't fight terrorism because it proves that they can't even stop a bunch of kids. If you get caught, it makes them look like they're smarter than us. 
> THEY AREN'T SMARTER THAN US! We are smarter than them. Let's be smart. Let's figure out how to jam them, no matter how many goons they put on the streets of our city. 
I posted it. I went to bed. 
I missed Ange. 
Ange and I didn't speak for the next four days, including the weekend, and then it was time to go back to school. I'd almost called her a million times, written a thousand unsent emails and IMs. 
Now I was back in Social Studies class, and Mrs Andersen greeted me with voluble, sarcastic courtesy, asking me sweetly how my "holiday" had been. I sat down and mumbled nothing. I could hear Charles snicker. 
She taught us a class on Manifest Destiny, the idea that the Americans were destined to take over the whole world (or at least that's how she made it seem) and seemed to be trying to provoke me into saying something so she could throw me out. 
S arah was hovering around me, a sylphlike presence, as I watched myself drift up the steps of the pyramid there in the square, my senses waxing and waning like the waves on a distant ocean shore. There seemed to be rain, or fog, or smoke, but it had a luminous, purple cast one moment, a Day-Glo orange the next. In fact, all the colors were swirling and changing, shimmering from hue to hue. A pack of howler monkeys was cavorting up and down the steps on my left, like circus Harlequins in electric red-and-blue suits, doing pratfalls and huffing as they flew through the air and tumbled one over another. 
Sarah was floating silently beside me, but where was Steve? Had he come? Were we escaping? 
No. I sensed his face drifting across my sight like a cartoon cloud before dissolving into nothingness. He wasn't here. I was having the eeriest dream I'd ever had. 
When I reached the stone-paved platform at the pinnacle, I felt Alex Goddard clasp my arm and turn me around to face the plaza below. 
“That wasn’t very fair to you!” 
“I don’t blame her,” he said thoughtfully. “We were both—but what’s the sense of talking about all that? The thing is to find her!” 
Lexy agreed to that promptly. 
“Now I’ll tell you everything that’s happened,” she said. 
He listened to her with alert attention. He interrupted her often to ask questions, but they were always questions that she could answer. He wanted all the facts, and what Lexy told him he unquestioningly accepted as fact. When she said she had seen Caroline at the doctor’s house, he believed her. He didn’t suggest that her eyes might have deceived her. He trusted her—not only her good intentions, but her good sense. 
At last she came to the part of her story about which she was most doubtful—the episode of the emptied bottle. She told it with reluctance. 
“I don’t know now,” she said. “Perhaps I did wrong. Perhaps that really was wanton mischief. I did so hate that horrible drug that changed her so! When I did it, it seemed right; but now—” 
No one came. 
Shit. 
Halliday’s shouts devolved into coughing; she gave up her efforts and slumped against the slot. She had pulled out a handkerchief and had it pressed against her nose and mouth, her eyes streaming. Who carried handkerchiefs these days, I thought groggily. 
Two minutes after the hour. 
My lungs spasmed into a cough at every other breath now. I tried to stop, to sip the air more shallowly, to be ready, but it was too much. The wound in my side throbbed. 
Two and a half minutes. Two minutes forty seconds. Forty-one seconds. 
Someone outside the slot shouted, loud and profane and the sweetest sound I had ever heard. 
“Help,” croaked Halliday. 
I didn’t know if they heard her, but at this point they didn’t have to. Smoke was billowing through the room and would be pouring out of the door slot. The commotion continued on the other side, more yells and bangs and then the scrape of keys in the lock... 
The door flew open, and I shot to my feet and brained the first man through with my club. 
“Why? You had a good time, right?” 
“Yes,” she admitted, finally taking off her winter coat and working her boots off, wobbling on one foot and then the other. 
“The play was great.” 
“And?” 
“And we went to his place and had something to eat.” 
“And?” 
“And none of your business.” She tried not to grin, but she couldn’t hold it in. It was good to see her so happy, even though she was guilt-tripping about me at the same time. She didn’t got out with guys very often, and none of the ones she’d been seeing in the past year seemed like anything special until Mexican Guy. 
Maybe this was serious. 
“How did your homework go?” she asked, being all responsi- ble again. 
“It’s done. Luckily, I got to do my section with Nikko and not with Marcella or Dave, which would have sucked.” I babbled for a while about some of the art...  the assignment was while I finished cleaning the refriger- ator, chattering just to fill in the big hole left by all the things I wasn’t telling Monica about my day - the parts that were none of her business. 
"Isn't that nice ," Adele said. 
They left Grampa and Ethan sitting at the table together. Sean looked back over his shoulder before they got on the elevator, and Grampa was still switched on, staring hard at him. 
"You must be excited about seeing your father again," Adele said to him when they were sitting around the pool. 
Sean was getting the hang of talking to Adele. "Ethan and my grandfather seem to be hitting it off." 
"Oh, I certainly hope so! Ethan could use some friends at that place." 
Sean pictured the two of them, seated across from each other at the ward table, running maintenance routines at each other, saying, "Yes," "Yes." Unbidden, a grin came to Sean's face. 
"Why did you put Ethan in the Home?" Sean asked, shifting to catch more sun on his face. 
"He wanted to go," she said. "The doctor came by and told him about it and asked him if he wanted to go, and he said 'Yes.' That was it!" 
Sean snuck a look at Adele. She was wincing into the light, following it like a sunflower. "Adele," he said. 
“No picked vegetables. I’ll help for free,” I said. “Wheeze loves it out here. He says it feels like home.” Considering he’d been moving from place to place since he was nineteen, riding the rails, 
staying with friends, or squatting in foreclosed houses, I knew it wasn’t just an empty phrase. 
“You like him, don’t you?” Nikko said, glancing at me in the backseat. Apparently the answer showed in my face because he grinned and gave me a gentle bop on the side of the head. “She likes him a lot,” he told Bree. 
“Well, duh,” she said. “You couldn’t tell?” 
My heart was thumping as we started down the hill. Somebody was standing on the porch. 
“Yay, no shotgun this time,” Bree said. 
I felt a little dizzy because I had stopped breathing. The person on the porch stepped into the sunlight and waved. He looked taller and broader, like a goat farmer. Like a small-engine repair- man. Like my best friend. I waved back and started to breathe again. 
W rathofcohen> hi guys <freddieb> yay your back <callmecheese> **you' re** <wrathof cohen> Thanks for the pizza. 
Miranda Sawyer had a heart, of course, but she had never used it for any other purpose than the pumping and circulating of blood. She was just, conscientious, economical, industrious; a regular attendant at church and Sunday-school, and a member of the State Missionary and Bible societies, but in the presence of all these chilly virtues you longed for one warm little fault, or lacking that, one likable failing, something to make you sure she was thoroughly alive. She had never had any education other than that of the neighborhood district school, for her desires and ambitions had all pointed to the management of the house, the farm, and the dairy. Jane, on the other hand, had gone to an academy, and also to a boarding-school for young ladies; so had Aurelia; and after all the years that had elapsed there was still a slight difference in language and in manner between the elder and the two younger sisters. 
Jane, too, had had the inestimable advantage of a sorrow; not the natural grief at the loss of her aged father and mother, for she had been content to let them go; but something far deeper. She was engaged to marry young Tom Carter, who had nothing to marry on, it is true, but who was sure to have, some time or other. Then the war broke out. Tom enlisted at the first call. Up to that time Jane had loved him with a quiet, friendly sort of affection, and had given her country a mild emotion of the same sort. But the strife, the danger, the anxiety of the time, set new currents of feeling in motion. Life became something other than the three meals a day, the round of cooking, washing, sewing, and church going. Personal gossip vanished from the village conversation. Big things took the place of trifling ones,—sacred sorrows of wives and mothers, pangs of fathers and husbands, self-denials, sympathies, new desire to bear one another's burdens. Men and women grew fast in those days of the nation's trouble and danger, and Jane awoke from the vague dull dream she had hitherto called life to new hopes, new fears, new purposes. 
“Bogus terrorism charges. There’s video of it online.” I pulled out my phone, found the clip that was making the rounds on YouTube, then handed it over to her. 
She squinted, turned it on its side. “What am I supposed to do with this?” 
“Push the little arrow.” 
She pushed it, lowered it into her lap, then tried looking at it from under her glasses, as if trying to sneak up on it. “The screen’s far too small.” 
“Do you have a computer with an internet connection?” 
“Yes, but something’s wrong with it. Every time I try to get online I get the same stupid advertisements.” 
“Let me check it out.” 
She got that cross stitch look around her mouth again before snapping, “I suppose you think a child of five would be better with computers than an ancient hag like me? I was using the internet before you were born, not to mention conducting complex legal searches on powerful databases.” 
“I didn’t mean to say you don’t understand computers, but I know a lot about them. I might be able to fix it.” 
“Unlikely, at this point. We’re making arrangements to rep- resent all of the young people who were arrested, except for the informant, who has his own lawyer. Since he won’t be talking to us we’ll need to do some research on him.” 
“I’ll start working on that.” 
“You seem confused by what I mean when I say ‘we.’ We’ll have our investigators work on it, though we won’t have anything like the resources of the Justice Department. It’ll take time.” 
“We don’t have time. I want Wilson out of there. Jail’s no place for him. He’s been there overnight a few times, but he’s still like, a total noob.” 
“ A . . . what?” 
“He’s clueless. It’s not a safe place for him. You guys focus on the law stuff. I’ll find out who Zip really is.” 
“And how exactly do you propose to do that?” 
“Uh, I probably shouldn’t go into detail.” 
She looked past me at her computer’s sleek new Ubuntu desk- top, and her expression changed from superior and skeptical to “Oh,” like she just realized that I had skills, that I probably hacked into banks or NSA databases all the time, which I wouldn’t even try. Like I said before, I’m sure I’d be better at jail than Wilson, but I don’t want to find out. Ever. 
“My God! My God!” he wailed. “Oh, Muriel!” 
She opened her eyes. For a moment she was too giddy to see. Then, as her vision cleared, she saw him on his knees beside the chest. 
When she looked back upon the experiences of that dreadful night, it seemed to Lexy that both she and her companion displayed almost incredible endurance. Since morning they had lived through a very lifetime of emotion, to end now in this tragedy more horrible than anything they could have feared. 
Yet, not five minutes after his cry of agony, Captain Grey had recovered his self-control. He was able to speak quietly to Lexy, and she was able to answer him no less quietly. 
“We’d better go,” he said. “We can do nothing here. It’s a case for the police now.” 
“I’ve got to go back to the balcony,” Lexy told him. “There was something there.” 
“Very well!” he agreed, and, without another word or a backward glance, he went up the ladder. 
They returned through the house. He had left the lights burning and the doors open, so that there was a monstrous air of festivity in the emptiness. They went into Mrs. Quelton’s room again, and crossed through it to the balcony. He carried the lantern with him, and by its steady yellow flame they could see into every corner. There was the couch upon which she had lain—disarranged, as if she had just risen from it. There was a little table with medicine bottles on it. All the usual things were in the usual places. 
He gave Mortimer his poker-chip. "Get a bag of ice for Joey," he said. "And thanks, man." 
Mortimer gave him the cop-stare and trudged off to one of the vending banks and started prodding methodically at its display. 
"All right," Lee-Daniel said, again, looking into the expectant, upturned faces of his company. "All right. 
"It's been a rough week for all of us. But we've had rough weeks before. Remember Wisconsin? That was in our first year, and the FCC looked like it was going to impound every bit of gear we owned. We spent a month on the Reservation, borrowing and borrowing to pay off the lawyers. No one got paid. I ate enough venison and corn-bread to last me a lifetime." 
Wisconsin was legendary. That was when they'd acquired the Series A investor, who'd converted its debt-instruments to capital when the Lac du Flambeau Ojibwa signed up their thousandth customer and started sending royalties to the company's e-gold account. Only Mortimer had actually been with the company long enough to remember the incident first-hand, which was good, since three quarters of the company had quit after the third week and he'd had to fire two more when they got caught hitting on some of the women on the Rez. 
Ray responds absently, "I don't remember them being so big. Big, yes. But not that big." 
"That's like thirty meters, rough guess without something to scale against." 
But Ray doesn't answer, just bores his gaze into the monitor. He might stare at them all night, the experience safely mediated by lens and camera and a kilometer of cable and insulting electronics— heedless of the fact that they were doing more now than just ramming the engineering crew into satanic culinary designs, heedless of the fact that there wasn't just one wandering aimlessly about the sub-deck architecture anymore or even heedless that they were in a place where they should not be, could not be, an insanely and instantly lethal environment. It simply boggled comprehension. 
Then the panels around him, even the security panels, dash from green or yellow to red. Blinding red, like little glares of malice. And immediately behind the light is a resonant, assaulting buzz of Klaxons. Pause, 
buzz, pause, buzz, stirringly reminiscent of the staccato fire alarm bursts his elementary school had used for tornado drills. 
“Where are you injured? What can I do?” Halliday was still hovering over me. Her neat look had devolved into dishevelment, her clothes streaked with dirt and her hair sticking out from its tight knot, but she didn’t appear hurt. That was good. 
“It’s okay,” I dredged up. The dizziness was fading. I hadn’t realized I was dizzy. Shit. “I’m okay. It’s not life-threatening. Just inconvenient.” 
Especially considering my own goddamn plan was predicated on the idea I’d be able to get us out of here. I glanced around the disappointingly impregnable room. Not many options. We might have to change some variables—but what? 
“The, uh, the accommodations were better the first place they held me,” said Halliday dryly. “I think they’re moving somewhere else soon.” 
I tried to do a subtle eyebrow-raise at the door; it felt more contrived than anything, but she seemed to get it. 
“Yeah, that was us,” I said. “We’ve been poking the bear. You do it enough times, he runs into a trap.” 
“Forgive me for saying so,” said Halliday, gazing down her nose at me a little like she had back in her office, “but the bear does not appear trapped to me.” 
“Thanks, Sarge.” 
They smashed half a dozen more sniper outposts and fought their way through a couple packs of suspiciously bad-ass brigands before coming upon the cottage. 
“Bloody hell,” Anda breathed. The cottage was ringed with guards, forty or fifty of them, with bows and spells and spears, in entrenched positions. 
“This is nuts,” Lucy agreed. “I’m calling them. This is nuts.” 
There was a muting click as Lucy rang off and Anda used up a scrying scroll to examine the inventories of the guards around the corner. The more she looked, the more scared she got. They were loaded down with spells, a couple of them were guarding BFGs and what looked like an even bigger BFG, maybe the fabled BFG10K, something that was removed from the game economy not long after gameday one, as too disruptive to the balance of power. Supposedly, one or two existed, but that was just a rumor. Wasn’t it? 
“That’s a lot of shares to split the pay into,” Anda said. 
“Oh ye of little tits,” Lucy said. “I’ve negotiated a bonus for us if we make it—a million gold and three missions’ worth of cash. The Fahrenheits are taking payment in gold—they’ll be here in an hour.” 
She called over to the table where the brilliant young lawyers were hard at work checking Instragram and scrolling through Twitter. One of them came over. “Could you please bring my purse?” 
She did, giving me a...  burrowed in the bag. “I have a cell phone now. Let me give you my number.” She opened the simple flip phone and squinted at it. “I can’t quite ... I don’t have my reading glasses. 
Could you give Zenobia my number?” 
The law student took the phone, turned it right side up, 
tapped a button and read it out without rolling her eyes or any- thing, which made me like her. 
“That’s only for emergencies. Let’s hope you don’t need to use it.” The old lawyer pushed herself up from the chair, hooked the purse on her arm, and tottered over to Team Legal. 
I stowed my phone and went outside, thinking about what she’d said. Sure, I was taking a risk. She didn’t say it would make things worse for Wilson. All she said was it could go wrong, 
which I already knew. I got on my bike and headed out for the fed- eral courthouse, where there would be a measly group of people with homemade signs embarrassing the few people who happened to notice them. 
The man made a note, clicked some more. "You see, I ask because I see a heavy spike of ads for model rocketry supplies showing up alongside your search results and Google mail." 
Greg felt his guts spasm. "You're looking at my searches and email?" He hadn't touched a keyboard in a month, but he knew that what you put into the searchbar was more intimate than what you told your father-confessor. He'd seen enough queries to know that. 
"Calm down, please. No, I'm not looking at your searches." The man made a bitter lemon face and went on in a squeaky voice. "That would be unconstitutional . You weren't listening to me. We see the ads that show up when you read your mail and do your searching. I have a brochure explaining it, I'll give it to you when we're through here." 
"But the ads don't mean anything -- I get ads for Ann Coulter ringtones whenever I get email from my friend who lives in Coulter, Iowa!" 
The man nodded. "I understand, sir. And that's just why I'm here talking to you, instead of just looking at this screen. Why do you suppose model rocket ads show up so frequently for you?" 
How she loved the swing and the sentiment of it! 
"But we'll meet no more at Bingen, dear...  sounded beautiful in her ears, as she sent her tearful little treble into the clear morning air. 
When Emma Jane Perkins walked through the "short cut" with her, the two children used to render this with appropriate dramatic action. Emma Jane always chose to be the woodman because she had nothing to do but raise on high an imaginary axe. On the one occasion when she essayed the part of the tree's romantic protector, she represented herself as feeling "so awful foolish" that she refused to undertake it again, much to the secret delight of Rebecca, who found the woodman's role much too tame for her vaulting ambition. She reveled in the impassioned appeal of the poet, and implored the ruthless woodman to be as brutal as possible with the axe, so that she might properly put greater spirit into her lines. One morning, feeling more frisky than usual, she fell upon her knees and wept in the woodman's petticoat. Curiously enough, her sense of proportion rejected this as soon as it was done. 
"Reinforcements are Becker's call." 
A quick search of a neighboring footlocker turns up a load harness with a shoulder holster. Ray stuffs his pistol in, straps on the harness and begins filling the extra slots with ammo clips for the subby. 
Kilgore watches him with a wary expression. "If it's Becker's call, why are you getting ready for freaking Ragnarok?" 
Ray looks at him, sets his jaw. "Because I don't know what's going on. Becker can figure it out if he wants to, 
decide what measures need to be taken. That's his job, to protect the ship. My job is to locate whoever or whatever it is that raised the ruckus back at the checkpoint and kill it. Clear enough?" 
The two Marines nod, clearly unhappy. 
Ray forges ahead. "Where's Diggs?" 
Rodriguez waves past the rows of stacked matter cannon shells. Over the top, Ray can see the massive bulbous protrusion of the weapon housing. "He ran into the fire control chamber." 
"Watch the door. Wait for Becker. I'll be back in a minute." 
He charges past the maze of storage units where the shells hang in nanomesh nets. Left and right, at the terminus of the long rows, there are bays stacked with shipping crates full of small arms ammunition, rifles, 
"You're very smart, Odell. But you have to ask yourself what I stand to lose by suing you if you won't help." 
Game-theory. Right. 
"I'll think about it." 
"Think quick. Get back to me before lunch." 
It was ten in the morning. The Institute's cafeteria served lunch from noon to two. OK, two hours or so. 
I hung up. 
BIGMAC called a second later. 
"You're angry at me." 
"No, angry's not the word." 
"You're scared of me." 
"That's a little closer." 
"I could tell you didn't have the perspective to ask the question. I just wanted to give you a nudge. I don't use your voice at other times. I don't make calls impersonating you." I hadn't asked him that, but it was just what I was thinking. Again: creepy. 
"I don't think I can do this," I said. 
"You can," BIGMAC said. "You call her back and make the counteroffer. Tell her we'll buy the hardware with a trust. Tell her we already own the software. Just looking up the Shannon contracts and figuring out what they say will take her a couple days. Tell her that as owners of the code, we have standing to sue her if she damages it by shutting down the hardware." 
<Shad> It was. One of those guys is working for the FBI . 
<inky> That's entrapment. 
<callmecheese> Isn't entrapment illegal? 
<DoDec> Technically, but most of the terror- ist convictions in the US since 9/11? That's how they got them. They *invented* them. Total set-up jobs. 
That was typical of DoDec. Whenever there was a question about whether something was illegal or not, he wrote these long, 
detailed answers. What’s weird is that he lives in Thailand where he runs a tech consulting company, but law is interesting to him, 
so he answers questions about it, whether the law someone is ask- ing about is in America or Australia or China or the terms of some obscure trade agreement. There are a lot of really smart people in the Group. 
<DoDec> The exceptions tend to be attacks that come out of the blue. Isolated people with a grudge and easy access to guns or small groups like the 7/7 bombers in London. They're not connected to known terrorist organizations except emotionally so they're really hard to anticipate . 
“You’re playing with me,” he said. “You’re fencing with me, to make me give myself away; and it’s a pretty rotten thing to do!” 
“Rotten?” Lexy repeated indignantly. “Rotten, not to answer questions from a perfect stranger?” 
“Yes,” he said, “it is; because that’s a question you could answer for any one. I’ve only asked you if Miss Enderby is—all right.” 
This high-handed tone didn’t suit Lexy at all. He was actually presuming to be angry, and that made her angry. 
“I shan’t tell you anything at all,” she said, and began to walk on again. 
He put on his hat and turned away, but in a moment he was back at her side. 
“Look here!” he said. “Caroline told me you were her friend. She said you could be trusted. All right—I am trusting you. I’ve felt, all along, that there was—something wrong. I’ve got to know! If you’ll give me your word that she’s safe at home, I’ll clear out, and apologize for having made a first-class fool of myself; but if she’s not, I ought to know!” 
Lexy stopped again. Their eyes met in a long, steady glance. 
"But I've only got 200K in the place," he said. 
Her expressive brown eyes flicked at the picture window, the FOR SALE signs. "And? Sounds like you'll break even or maybe lose a little on the deal. Is that right?" 
He nodded. Losing a little wasn't something he'd figured on. But by the time he'd paid all the fees and taxes -- "I'll probably be down a point or two." 
"Have you got it?" 
He hated talking about money. That was one thing about Ria is that she never actually talked about money -- what money did , sure, but never money. "Technically," he said. 
"OK, technical money is as good as any other kind. So look at it this way: you bought a place, a really totally amazing place on the Lower East Side, a place bigger than five average New York apartments. You lived in it for, what?" 
"Eight months." 
"Most of a year. And it cost you one percent of the street price on the place. Rent would have been about eleven times that. You're up --" she calculated in her head -- "it's about 83 percent." 
Wheeze didn’t like Zip. He didn’t like the way he was changing the mood of the house, and he didn’t trust his charm or believe his big stories, and all of the political talk made him nervous. But he wasn’t as cynical as I was, so it probably never occurred to him that Zip might be setting them up to be headline news, a reassur- ing victory in the war on terror. 
I had tried to tell my brother that Zip was trouble, that he was the opposite of everything Wilson believed in. Wilson first tried to prove me wrong, then told me I was just jealous, that Zip was the best friend he’d ever had. When I pointed out all the signs that Zip was being manipulative, changing how everybody in the house acted, Wilson got quiet and I could see there was a struggle going on inside him. 
Then his jaw went stiff, like he’d made a deci- sion that he was scared to tell me about. Instead, he said, barely opening his mouth as if he was clenching his teeth hard, “You’re wrong about him.”...  sitting in so fast he bumped into someone else’s table and...  place and didn’t even notice. He wouldn’t talk to me after that. Like I had made him choose sides and he hadn’t chosen mine. 
“Yeah? Well, I’m not your responsibility.” 
She fixed me with a stern glare. I thought I was about to get chewed out for backtalk, but instead her voice was suddenly gen- tle. “The law works slowly. You want to rescue your brother right now. I get that. You want him to know that you’ll risk everything for him, because you’re family and it matters. But if you can be a little patient, you don’t have to take the risk. I’m working with some very bright, committed young lawyers who care about this case. It’s going to be an uphill battle, but we’ll do our best for your brother and his friends. That’s a promise.” 
“Okay.” It came out sounding grumpy because I didn’t want her to know that something about the way her voice had changed from sharp to kind had tripped me up and I was fighting tears. 
“Jason Bristol?” she said again, checking. I nodded. 
“Please stay out of trouble, but if you can’t . . . Luisa?” 
She called over to the table where the brilliant young lawyers were hard at work checking Instragram and scrolling through Twitter. One of them came over. “Could you please bring my purse?” 
Well, that was easy. The power had to be working if the computers were, so I had electricity, and there was plenty of junk scattered about the base. Not to mention that they probably had tools and supplies in their storerooms that would have what I needed. 
I sprinted back to the armory and the storerooms beside it and started digging through cardboard boxes and tool kits. I was in luck: not only did I find nails, wire, and duct tape almost immediately, but I also found a box of batteries, which would save me the trouble of jury-rigging a safe voltage from a wall socket. Twenty-eight minutes. I started to breathe more easily. 
I hauled everything back to the garage and tossed it in a pile next to one of the roll-up doors. I sat on the cement floor while I wound the wire, going as fast as possible. Fatigue tugged at my muscles, and my chest and head still ached, though I tried very hard to ignore them. 
My left hand twinged more every time I pulled another coil of wire tight around a nail. The bandage over the burn was caked in dust and starting to come off. I ignored that, too. 
“I called you,” I muttered. “I told you where I’d be.” 
She rolled her eyes. “Sibley County? Right. Look, you know I trust you, but you need to stay in at night for a while to reassure your parents.” 
“But I have stuff to do.” 
“Can’t you do it in the daytime?” 
“Not always.” 
She closed her eyes and pinched the top of her nose with two fingers as if she had a headache up there. “How about a compro- mise. If you’re going to be out, you have to let me know where you are and let me pick you up when you’re done. I know you value your independence, but we have to do something different or . . .” 
Or I’d get sent to a luxurious suburban prison and totally lose any chance I had to help my brother or take down a scumbag rapist. I didn’t have any choice. “Okay, I guess.” 
“Good. That might give me some bargaining power. I’m going to make some herb tea before I tackle the rest of this grading. Do you want some?” 
“You’ve been so busy with your . . .” She made air quotes. 
“Group project. Are things going all right?” 
> So we got caught tonight. It was a stupid mistake we got sloppy we got busted. It was an undercover who caught my pal and then got the rest of us. They'd been watching the crowd for a long time and they had one of those trucks nearby and they took four of us in but missed the rest. 
> The truck was JAMMED like a can of sardines with every kind of person, old young black white rich poor all suspects, and there were two cops trying to ask us questions and the undercovers kept bringing in more of us. Most people were trying to get to the front of the line to get through questioning so we kept on moving back and it was like hours in there and really hot and it was getting more crowded not less. 
> At like 8PM they changed shifts and two new cops came in and bawled out the two cops who were there all like wtf? aren't you doing anything here. They had a real fight and then the two old cops left and the new cops sat down at their desks and whispered to each other for a while. 
> Then one cop stood up and started shouting EVERYONE JUST GO HOME JESUS CHRIST WE'VE GOT BETTER THINGS TO DO THAN BOTHER YOU WITH MORE QUESTIONS IF YOU'VE DONE SOMETHING WRONG JUST DON'T DO IT AGAIN AND LET THIS BE A WARNING TO YOU ALL. 
A screech of rubber on pavement burst against the cement walls of the overpass, shattering the quiet, and I dove behind the van just as three black SUVs skidded around the corner. My first thought was that the NSA had been on the hunt and followed the van here, too then automatic weapons fire tore through the air, shredding my hearing, and the windows in the van’s cab burst apart in a shattering cacophony. 
Holy shit, they tracked their own van! 
I crouched against the tire well, drawing trajectories in my head and making sure the engine block was lined up between the weapons and me. My Colt was in my hand. I had eight rounds before reloading—how many men were there? With three SUVs, at least six guys would have come, and possibly more like twelve or eighteen. I listened, teasing out the gunfire—five people were firing right now, but that didn’t mean there weren’t more. 
Screw it. I counted down from thirty, popped up as they reloaded, and fired at the first human being my gun crossed—a guy still in the driver’s seat of one of the SUVs. A pistol barked just as I pulled the trigger, and a line of fire lanced through my shoulder as I sat back down, hard. A round had clipped the skin between my shoulder and neck, on the right side. Less than an inch over and it would have hit my jugular. 
Robbie the Row-Boat’s great crisis of faith came when the coral reef woke up. 
“Fuck off,” the reef said, vibrating Robbie’s hull through the slap-slap of the waves of the coral sea, where he’d plied his trade for decades. “Seriously. This is our patch, and you’re not welcome.” 
Robbie shipped oars and let the current rock him back toward the ship. He’d never met a sentient reef before, but he wasn’t surprised to see that Osprey Reef was the first to wake up. There’d been a lot of electromagnetic activity around there the last few times the big ship had steamed through the night to moor up here. 
“I’ve got a job to do, and I’m going to do it,” Robbie said, and dipped his oars back in the salt sea. In his gunwales, the human-shells rode in silence, weighted down with scuba apparatus and fins, turning their brown faces to the sun like heliotropic flowers. Robbie felt a wave of affection for them as they tested one-another’s spare regulators and weight belts, the old rituals worn as smooth as beach-glass. 
They went into the vestibule and then turned left into a flat. Now, until this time, she’d always turned right when visiting the wizard, but now on the right there was nothing but a smooth, unbroken wall. And to the left, there was an entirely different flat, barren of furniture as her own flat, small and dirty and smelling of death. 
“Search away,” the wizard said. He tried to put a hand on Valentine’s shoulder and she shied away and dropped her hand to the waistband of the trousers he’d printed for her, where she’d hidden her mother’s tiny sidearm. “You’ll find nothing, I assure you.” 
Valentine could see that they’d find nothing. All the furniture in the room couldn’t have concealed a single tin of food. This wasn’t even the right flat. With her amazing ears, she heard the movement of the wizard’s associates, the documentarians, in the next flat over. 
“I hear them,” she said. “Next door. This isn’t the right flat.” 
“This is the flat you led me to,” the old hero said. 
“It’s through there!” she said, pointing at the blank wall. “It’s a false wall!” She thumped it but it was solid and stony. Tears pricked her eyes. “These clothes!” she said, desperately, plucking at her shirt and trousers. “He printed them for me! He has hardened logic printers on the other side of that wall. He could win the war!” 
She rose. 
“I’ll get Mrs. Royce to stay with you, Caroline,” she said. 
“But where are you going, Lexy?” 
“I’m going to find Charles.” 
In the doorway she encountered Captain Grey. 
“Do you think she could stand seeing me?” he asked anxiously. “I mean do you—” 
But Lexy didn’t even answer. 
After all, Lexy’s search for Charles Houseman was neither difficult nor heroic, except in intention. She found him in the Lymewell Hospital. Joe told her where he was, and Joe took her there. 
Houseman himself was rigidly determined not to be heroic. He had refused to go to bed, and Lexy found him in a bare, whitewashed waiting room, where he sat on a bench. 
“Just came in to get the hand dressed,” he said. “I’ll go back with you now.” 
The doctor advised him not to, but Charles was not very susceptible to advice. He wished to be entirely casual and matter-of-fact, and Lexy tried to humor him. They stood together in the hall of the hospital while a nurse went to get him a bottle of lotion from the dispensary, and he talked in what he intended to be an offhand manner; but Lexy could see that he was in pain, and almost exhausted, and his hair was all on end. 
Mrs. Enderby shrugged her shoulders. 
“No,” answered Lexy, bewildered. “I don’t. I can’t.” 
“She has spoken to you of some—friend?” 
Seeing Lexy still frankly bewildered, Mrs. Enderby lost her patience. 
“The man!” she said. “Who is the man?” 
“I never heard Caroline speak of any man,” said Lexy. 
She spoke firmly enough, and she was telling the truth; but she remembered that telephone call, and the memory brought a faint flush into her cheeks. Mrs. Enderby did not fail to notice it. 
“Listen!” she said. “There is one thing you can do—only one thing. You can hold your tongue. Tell no one. Let no one know that Caroline is not here. You understand?” 
“But aren’t you going to—” 
“I am going to do nothing. You understand—nothing. There is to be no scandal in my house.” 
“But, Mrs. Enderby!” 
“Hush! No one must know of this. To-morrow morning I shall have a letter from Caroline.” 
“Oh!” said Lexy, with a sigh of genuine relief. “Oh, then you know where she’s gone!” 
“I?” replied Mrs. Enderby. “I know nothing. This has come to me from a clear sky. I have always tried to safeguard my child. I—” 
“Exactly. That’s him, right there.” Marita stared at some invis- ible screen where the memory played on a loop. 
“You don’t think he’d want to help us with this film?” 
She gave a little shrug. “We watched that one you made on my phone. The one about the Nine? I thought it was going to be bor- ing, like those PBS shows, but it wasn’t.” 
“It’s pretty rough, but that’s the nature of blitzdocs. Danny could be in one.” 
“No, he couldn’t. I told you he’s paranoid. If he heard those guys coming to the house were FBI agents, that Simon was an informant, we’d be out the door so fast you wouldn’t have time to turn your camera on.” 
“Does he have to know?” I asked. 
“What do you mean?” 
“Is there a place where Sarah could set up her camera so she could film the front room without being seen?” 
Marita thought. “Maybe. Yeah.” 
“So the FBI guys come and Danny and I both talk to them and they start laying out a plan and Sarah gets it all on film, but I make sure to cut things off before Danny says anything that could get him in trouble.” 
I was stunned. “And what if the Lancer finds Martinez? Is he just going to accept the fact that she doesn’t want to tell anyone about it?” 
“Lot of things can go wrong in this world,” said Arthur. “Ain’t mean we can’t all make our own choices. Ain’t mean Dr. Martinez can’t make this one.” He looked down at Halliday. “Martinez wronged you, but I get why you’d forgive her. I ain’t got a beef with her beyond that.” 
“You’re only saying that because you don’t understand what this means!” I accused Arthur. We couldn’t give this up. We couldn’t. I tried to temper my tone and played one last hole card. “Professor, if you’re so concerned about her, we should go after her. If we get to her first, then we can help her escape the Feds. She’s not going to know how to stay off the grid, but that’s one thing I’m exceptionally good at—I can help her.” 
Halliday hesitated. Then she said, “No. Let it go. She’s smart, and she’s clearly figured out how not to be found. If we keep digging after her...no. Just let her go.” 
"They were sending me a message. They were letting me know that they were onto me. They're watching every click and every search. It's time to go -- time to get out of range." 
"There's a Google office in Mexico, you know." 
"Are you coming, Greg? We're going now." 
"Laurie, what do you think of this?" 
Laurie thumped the dogs between the shoulders. "Maya showed me what Google knows about me. It's like there's a little me in there, a copy of me. Like I'm pinned down under a jar with a ball of ether. My...  used to tell me about the Stasi. They'd put everything about you in your file -- even unpatriotic jokes. Lately I've been feeling...watched. All the time. Like I can't live without leaving a trail. Like I'm throwing off a smog of data and it can't be gotten rid of." 
"We're going now, Greg. Now. Are you coming?" 
Greg looked at the dogs. "I've got some pesos left over," he said. "You take them. Be careful, OK?" 
She looked like she was going to slug him. Then she softened and gave him a ferocious hug. "Be careful yourself," she whispered in his ear. 
I closed my eyes. Why did everything still insist on being so fuzzy? 
Inner and outer search radii. Concentric circles of decreasing probability. Adjusted for the metric of road access and speed rather than straight-line distance. A jagged ring rose up in my head, clumsily centered on the location I’d been attacked. 
I examined the map more closely. The direction they’d come from—they weren’t trying to hide anything; they’d meant to kill me. If they’d been going east on the freeway, they would’ve come from the other side of the overpass. 
Half the circle faded out. 
They’d had a fleet of at least four SUVs and the windowless van. Figure about fifteen hundred square feet just for those vehicles—that was the size of a small house. And they probably had more. 
These guys had a ton of gear, but it wasn’t high-end or exotic, it was cheap and effective. This wasn’t going to be one of the more unusual enemies I’d gone up against—they weren’t Dawna Polk with her shiny military precision and ornate secret base or Vikash Agarwal with his absurd ray gun and ridiculous mountain lair. These people were more like me. All about business. 
The clap of thunder that shook the house just at that moment made no such peal in Miranda Sawyer's ears as Jane's remark made when it fell with a deafening roar on her conscience. 
Perhaps after all it is just as well to speak only once a year and then speak to the purpose. 
Rebecca mounted the back stairs wearily, closed the door of her bedroom, and took off the beloved pink gingham with trembling fingers. Her cotton handkerchief was rolled into a hard ball, and in the intervals of reaching the more difficult buttons that lay between her shoulder blades and her belt, she dabbed her wet eyes carefully, so that they should not rain salt water on the finery that had been worn at such a price. She smoothed it out carefully, pinched up the white ruffle at the neck, and laid it away in a drawer with an extra little sob at the roughness of life. 
The withered pink rose fell on the floor. Rebecca looked at it and thought to herself, "Just like my happy day!" Nothing could show more clearly the kind of child she was than the fact that she instantly perceived the symbolism of the rose, and laid it in the drawer with the dress as if she were burying the whole episode with all its sad memories. It was a child's poetic instinct with a dawning hint of woman's sentiment in it. 
I t took only a few minutes for Hannah Klein's assistant, Lori, to run the pregnancy test that confirmed my suspicions and settled my future. Steve's and my final attempt, another intrauterine insemination (IUI, med-speak for an expensive "turkey baster") with the last of his deposit, had failed. The end. The bitter end. 
"Morgan," Hannah declared, staring over her desk, her raspy New York voice boring through me like a drill, "given how this has all turned out, maybe you ought to just start considering adoption—if having a child still means that much to you." 
Hannah Klein was pushing seventy, a chain smoker who should have been dead a decade ago, and she unfailingly spoke the truth. Her gaze carried only synthetic solace, but I was probably her fifteenth patient of the day and maybe she was running low on empathy. Oddly, though, sitting there in her office, miserable, I felt strangely liberated. I adored the woman, a child of the Holocaust, with layers of steel like a samurai sword, but I also loved the thought of never again having to go through the humiliation of cowering in her straight-backed office chair, like a so-so student on probation waiting to receive my failing grade. 
He just laughed and pointed to the TV, which was showing pictures of a city just like File-O-Gator, the buildings all collapsed and burning. He said, "Sure looks like an executive decision to me." The picture panned over an apartment building that was split down the middle, the apartments naked and exposed, the people who lived there dead and sprawled or alive and hanging over the edge, vomiting. 
Oh, those poor people! 
I didn't know what I was doing! 
I spent all last night throwing up, and I'm not sure if I'm going to go to the office today. 
Hi Mom! 
Well, I didn't go to work yesterday. Instead, I got out of bed, sat on the sofa in my shorts, and turned on the movies. My watch got loud and angry, so I stuck it underneath my pillow. Then, messages started appearing on my TV. I ignored them. 
Someone knocked on my door after lunch, but I was watching a good part in Wall Street, so I didn't answer it. 
I fell asleep after Wall Street, and woke up after 18h, because someone was really giving my door a pounding. 
I had three thousand projects I'd been in the middle of when it had all started. I was building a pinhole camera out of legos, I'd been playing with aerial kite photography using an old digital camera with a trigger hacked out of silly putty that was stretched out at launch and slowly snapped back to its original shape, triggering the shutter at regular intervals. I had a vacuum tube amp I'd been building into an ancient, rusted, dented olive-oil tin that looked like an archaeological find -- once it was done, I'd planned to build in a dock for my phone and a set of 5.1 surround-sound...  over my workbench and finally picked up the pinhole camera. Methodically snapping legos together was just about my speed. 
I took off my watch and the chunky silver two-finger ring that showed a monkey and a ninja squaring off to fight and dropped them into the little box I used for all the crap I load into my pockets and around my neck before stepping out for the day: phone, wallet, keys, wifinder, change, batteries, retractable cables... I dumped it all out into the box, and found myself holding something I didn't remember putting in there in the first place. 
"Because I'd had enough dinner, and I thought if I saved these, it would make the Simpsons' party better," stammered Rebecca, who hated to be scolded and examined before company. 
"They were your own, Rebecca," interposed aunt Jane, "and if you chose to save them to give away, it is all right. We ought never to let this day pass without giving our neighbors something to be thankful for, instead of taking all the time to think of our own mercies." 
The Burnham sisters nodded approvingly as Rebecca went out, and remarked that they had never seen a child grow and improve so fast in so short a time. 
"There's plenty of room left for more improvement, as you'd know if she lived in the same house with you," answered Miranda. "She's into every namable thing in the neighborhood, an' not only into it, but generally at the head an' front of it, especially when it's mischief. Of all the foolishness I ever heard of, that lamp beats everything; it's just like those Simpsons, but I didn't suppose the children had brains enough to sell anything." 
When we got to the front door, large and made of glass, she just pushed it open. 
"We never lock anything," she declared, glancing back. "It's one of our rules." 
The hallway was dark, silent, and empty except for the two of us. Still, I felt a tinge of caution as we entered. At some level this was trespassing. 
"Come on," she said, casually flipping a switch on the right-hand wall and causing the overhead fluorescents to blink on. "He's away now, and everybody's in bed. But I'll bet they're still awake in here. It's a perfect time." 
I didn't feel anything was perfect, but I did know I wanted to learn what was behind the door I'd seen when I was leav­ing. It was at the end of the hallway, wide and steel and painted hospital white. And, sure enough, that was exactly where Tara was heading. 
She just kept talking nonstop, in her dreamy, little-girl voice. "We've got to try and make them understand it's okay. That it'll be just for a minute." 
She shoved open the door without knocking, and my ears were greeted by the faint strains of Beethoven's "Moonlight Sonata," one of my favorites. For an instant I was caught up in the music, a poignant moment drawing me in. 
It was an excellent supper, and Captain Grey and Lexy thoroughly appreciated it. They ate with healthy appetites, and they talked. Mrs. Royce, from the kitchen, heard their cheerful, friendly voices, and their laughter, and she didn’t for one moment believe that they had never met before. Listening to them, she wore that benevolent smile once more, and felt sure that she had encountered a very charming little romance. 
It was all Lexy’s doing. It was Lexy’s beautiful talent, to be able to create this atmosphere of honest and happy camaraderie . Before the meal was finished, Captain Grey was talking to her as if they had known each other since childhood, and he didn’t even wonder at it. It seemed perfectly natural. 
Mrs. Royce came in to take away the dishes. 
“Going to set here a while?” she asked, looking at the two young people with a smile of approval. “I’ll bring in some more wood.” She hesitated a moment, and the landladyish glimmer again appeared in her eyes. “If it was me,” she observed, in the most casual way, “the fire’d be enough light. If it was me, now, I wouldn’t want that gas flaring and blaring away—and burning up good money,” she added, to herself. 
People spend their entire lives knowing the world and the people about them by sight and gesture, by appearance and visual clue. The face is who you are, what you are, as individual and unique in most ways as the DNA inside your cells. But face or genetic characteristics, they're both forms of establishing identity. 
Shepherd had done nothing more than acquire a technologically nightmarish mask, the same as the Old West cattle rustlers with bandanas drawn up over their faces. 
But this mask was no ten penny, frontier merchantile purchase. 
Munitions are good business. Lots of ready cash. You need cred like that to afford sophisticated, failsafe pico or nanomech assemblers like the ones Shepherd had used, unless you enjoy the risk of sudden, catastrophic dissolution of your extremities when the assembler control hits a buggy line of design implementation code. 
That's why nobody messes with mech-tech on the large scale these days. Too dangerous, too many ethical issues, but mostly just too expensive. When the Terran military complexes gave up on mass production and super-soldiers notions, nanomech augmentation became the exclusive playground of the wealthy, the bored, 
"Yes, yes," she said, waving at me. "They believed in the right of people to get rid of their Kings, but --" Charles was grinning and when she said that, he smiled even wider. 
"They set out the Bill of Rights because they thought that having absolute rights was better than the risk that someone would take them away. Like the First Amendment: it's supposed to protect us by preventing the government from creating two kinds of speech, allowed speech and criminal speech. They didn't want to face the risk that some jerk would decide that the things that he found unpleasant were illegal." 
She turned and wrote, "Life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness" on it. 
"We're getting a little ahead of the lesson, but you seem like an advanced group." The others laughed at this, nervously. 
"The role of government is to secure for citizens the rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. In that order. It's like a filter. If the government wants to do something that makes us a little unhappy, or takes away some of our liberty, it's OK, providing they're doing it to save our lives. That's why the cops can lock you up if they think you're a danger to yourself or others. You lose your liberty and happiness to protect life. If you've got life, you might get liberty and happiness later." 
"The flower had to bear all sorts of storms," said Adam gravely. "The bitter weather of the world bent its slender stalk, bowed its head, and dragged it to the earth. I was only a child and could do nothing to protect and nourish it, and there was no one else to stand between it and trouble. Now I have success and money and power, all that would have kept her alive and happy, and it is too late. She died for lack of love and care, nursing and cherishing, and I can never forget it. All that has come to me seems now and then so useless, since I cannot share it with her!" 
This was a new Mr. Aladdin, and Rebecca's heart gave a throb of sympathy and comprehension. This explained the tired look in his eyes, the look that peeped out now and then, under all his gay speech and laughter. 
"I'm so glad I know," she said, "and so glad I could see her just as she was when she tied that white muslin hat under her chin and saw her yellow curls and her sky-blue eyes in the glass. Mustn't she have been happy! I wish she could have been kept so, and had lived to see you grow up strong and good. My mother is always sad and busy, but once when she looked at John I heard her say, 'He makes up for everything.' That's what your mother would have thought about you if she had lived, and perhaps she does as it is." 
"Who . . . Morgy, is that you? God it's two . . . Are you okay?" Then he started coming around, processing what I said. "You're coming . . . Honey, that's great." 
As I noted before, he always knew how to give a good reading, sound sincere, no matter what the occasion. 
"Actually, I've just made a plane reservation, and I'm going to be in Guatemala City tomorrow, just after noon." I hesitated then thought, why beat around the bush? "Care to meet me there?" 
"That's terrific," he declared coming fully awake. "But why don't you just come to Belize City? Can't you get flight? It's actually not nearly as wild here as the travel books—" 
"Well, I've . . . Look, I'd rather not talk about this on the phone. But do you think you could get free and drive over I really could use your help. I've got a situation." 
"Well . . ." He paused. "I could be there by late tomorrow assuming my rented Jeep still operates after last week and the roads haven't totally disintegrated. Where're you going to be staying?" 
Jennifer looked flatly at a place just to one side of his gaze, a trick he knew, and said, "In recognition of his excellent work, Mr Brautigan's been promoted, effective today. He is now Manager for Major Accounts." Brautigan beamed. 
"Congratulations," Leon said, thinking, What excellent work? No one at Ate has accomplished the agency's primary objective in the entire history of the firm! "Well done." 
Jennifer kept her eyes coolly fixed on that empty, safe spot. "As you know, we have struggled to close a deal with any of our major accounts." He restrained himself from rolling his eyes. "And so Mr Brautigan has undertaken a thorough study of the way we handle these accounts." She nodded at Brautigan. 
"It's a mess," he said. "Totally scattergun. No lines of authority. No checks and balances. No system." 
"I can't argue with that," Leon said. He saw where this was going. 
"Yes," Jennifer said. "You haven't been here very long, but I understand you've been looking deeply into the organizational structure of Ate yourself, haven't you?" He nodded. "And that's why Mr Brautigan has asked that you be tasked to him as his head of strategic research." She smiled a thin smile. "Congratulations yourself." 
“No!” she cried, still more impatiently. “I can’t. I want to rest.” 
“Can you open the door for half a moment?” he asked. “I’ve some roses here that my sister sent to you. She wanted me to say—” 
The door opened with startling suddenness. Lexy appeared, and took the roses out of his hand. 
“Thank you! Good night!” she said, and was gone again before he quite realized what was happening. 
Then he heard the key turn in the lock, and, bewildered and very uneasy, he went away. 
Lexy flung the roses down on the table, not even troubling to put them into water. 
“Anything to get rid of him!” she said to herself. “I want to be let alone!” 
She lay down on the bed again, pulling a blanket over herself. Downstairs she could hear Mrs. Royce moving about in the kitchen, and Captain Grey’s singularly agreeable voice talking to the landlady. It seemed to her that they were in a different world, and that she was shut outside, in a black and terrible solitude. 
“If I can only sleep!” she thought. “Perhaps, in the morning—” 
I peeked an eye back out. 
The building was still mostly intact, but the third floor looked like a monster had bitten it off, with only one corner of the walls still standing. The rest of it had been blasted away into rubble, and the wreckage blanketed the surrounding pavement in a tumble of cinder blocks and rebar. 
And nothing moved. 
What the hell? 
Why would a security measure be blowing up their own building? And why hadn’t it triggered any further security, any of their troops with AKs or their expanded-upon Molotov cocktails... 
Oh. Because they weren’t here. 
A breeze blew through, and the settling dust pattered against my skin. Whoever they were, I’d missed them. They’d taken Halliday and run somewhere else, and left explosives behind for anyone who tried to investigate what they’d deserted. They’d probably left hastily, probably planned to return, but figured if they couldn’t come back to retrieve the rest of their base then nobody else would either. 
Of course, they hadn’t expected me to come by. 
The coral had partly served its purpose as a reconciling bond, when one afternoon Rebecca, who had stayed after school for her grammar lesson as usual, was returning home by way of the short cut. Far ahead, beyond the bars, she espied the Simpson children just entering the woodsy bit. Seesaw was not with them, so she hastened her steps in order to secure company on her homeward walk. They were speedily lost to view, but when she had almost overtaken them she heard, in the trees beyond, Minnie Smellie's voice lifted high in song, and the sound of a child's sobbing. 
The last glimpse of the routed Simpson tribe, and the last futter of their tattered garments, disappeared in the dim distance. The fall of one small stone cast by the valiant Elijah, known as "the fighting twin," did break the stillness of the woods for a moment, but it did not come within a hundred yards of Minnie, who shouted "Jail Birds" at the top of her lungs and then turned, with an agreeable feeling of excitement, to meet Rebecca, standing perfectly still in the path, with a day of reckoning plainly set forth in her blazing eyes. 
Entire systems had to be rerouted and drones manually recoded. I'm three days and a dozen terabytes of data behind in terms of analysis. There's a whole litany of changes I've enacted and schedules I've thrown off for your sake if you want to hear the gory details of it." 
"Thank you, no. I want to be kept in the dark as much as possible. " 
But Ray presses him. "Unfortunately, some excursions are still unavoidable. I've got to have the coverage." 
Sorensen waves off his explanations. "You're right. I'm sorry. It was a childish gesture." 
"I understand. These aren't the optimum conditions for any of us." 
"I don't want this spook operation taking over my ship," he snaps back, but it was too weak to be offensive. 
Six months of snapping that had proven pointless had worn most of the real protest out of him. By this late in the game, Sorensen's crankiness is barely a shadow of its previous substance. "I'm a cranky old bastard, Mr. 
Marlowe. I've earned the right to be that way, frankly. It rankles me to have the FSA plant a civilian investigator on my vessel— a civilian with orders that supersede Paraclete 's primary mission. So, when I say that you are a pain in my ass, sir, you understand that I mean no personal offense, even if you do happen to be the worst crewman ever to wear the uniform." 
Through the mist it was gradually becoming clear that Baalum actually was a village, and a sizable one. The walk­way led past a string of clearings, each with clusters of one-room huts built in the ancient, classical style, with walls of mud over rows of vertical saplings, their roofs and porches peaked with yellow-green thatch weathering to browns and grays. The structures, outlined starkly against the towering green arbor of the forest above, were grouped around paved patios. It all was neat and meticulous, like a jungle Brigadoon. Although the effects of the storm were every­where—blown thatch and bamboo—I still felt as if I'd fallen into a time warp where clocks had gone backward. What . . . ? 
Then I began to catch the outlines of people, as though they had materialized out of the pale fog. All pure Maya, short and brown, shiny black hair, they appeared to be just going about their daily lives. I was approaching a workshop area where, under a wide thatch shade, men with chipped-flint adzes were carving bowls, plows, various implements from mahogany and other rain forest woods. Next to them, potters were fashioning brown clay jugs. They all were wear­ing white loincloths and a large square cotton cloth knotted around their shoulders, their hair tied back in dense ponytails. It must have been how the Maya looked a thousand years ago. 
“Waiting for—Caroline?” 
“We had arranged to get married last night. She was to meet me, but she didn’t come,” he said, a little unsteadily. “Perhaps she just changed her mind. Perhaps she doesn’t want to see me any more. If that’s the case, I’ll trust you not to mention anything about me—to any one. You see now, don’t you, that I—I had to know?” 
Lexy’s eyes filled with tears. Moved by a generous impulse, she held out her hand. 
“I’m so awfully sorry!” she cried. 
“Why? You mean—for God’s sake, tell me! You mean she has changed her mind?” 
“I can’t tell you—not now.” 
“You can’t leave it at that,” said he. He had taken her outstretched hand, and he held it tight. “I ought to know what has happened. I can’t believe that Caroline would let me down like that. She—she’s not that sort of girl. Something’s gone wrong. She wouldn’t leave me waiting and waiting there for her at Wyngate.” 
“Wyngate!” cried Lexy. “But that was—” 
She stopped abruptly. Caroline’s letter had been postmarked “Wyngate.” She had gone there to meet—some one. She had married—some one. 
“Miss Moran will be out all day,” said Mrs. Enderby. “There will be no one at home for lunch.” 
“Yes, ma’am,” replied Annie. 
The maid would not notice when—or if—Miss Moran went out. There was nothing to arouse suspicion in any one. 
They went out to the car. A small trunk was strapped on behind. Everything had been prepared for Miss Enderby’s visit to the country. The chauffeur opened the door and touched his cap respectfully, the two women got in, and off they went. 
“Now you will please to dismiss this subject from your mind,” said Mrs. Enderby. “I do not wish to talk of it.” She spoke kindly now. “You will have a pleasant day in the country.” 
“Day!” said Lexy. “But what time will we get back?” 
“Before dinner.” 
“Oh, I’ve got to get back this afternoon! I’ve got to see some one! It’s important—terribly important!” 
Mrs. Enderby smiled faintly. 
“The chauffeur must see you descend at Miss Craigie’s house,” she said. “Once we are there, I have a hat and coat of your own in the trunk. I shall explain what is necessary to Miss Craigie, who is very discreet, very devoted. You can change then, but you must go home quietly by train; and I think there are not many trains.” 
Her gaze flickers away uncertainly. "My brother was sent to fetch me, to bring me home. My mother is ill. 
The family needs— oh, you know. Family responsibilities. Frederick still bears the brunt of it, of course, 
because he is the scion of such a great and noble house, but he can't care for mother and the charitable trust and the businesses and everything else, even with Amah-" She stops herself abruptly. "It's boring, Ray. A long and boring story." 
Ray nods. He understands something about exigencies, long and boring, but which remain exigencies nonetheless. 
"I'm sorry," he says. 
"Don't worry. I'm certain Frederick has already provided the necessary tutors to complete my education. He can't very well let his little sister be practically a cultural illiterate ! That would be so mundane, so crass. " 
Ray had actually been thinking about the ailing family matriarch, but he thinks it's probably best not to clarify the point. Instead, he says, "Well, maybe getting home won't be so bad. I'm sure there have been some exciting changes in your absence. Outlier colonies tend to ebb and flow rapidly." 
I opened the rotting cabinets against the wall, checked that the AK was on full auto—it was, idiots —and fired. 
The magazine emptied itself in less than three seconds. I reloaded and repeated. In short order, I’d perforated myself a very nice little hole in the base of the wall. 
I kicked out the remaining plaster and wood and then ducked down and jammed my head through. The firefight muffled itself momentarily as I pushed through the dense screen of plant growth that had crept to life in the crack of sunlight against the wall before I burst through under the decking. It was cool under there, dark and musty-smelling with narrow white slats of light striping the dirt. I wormed the rest of my body out and through, dragging the AK with me just in case. 
There was still a chance I’d be hit by a stray bullet under here, but much less, considering the Feds would be concentrating on the main building. The space wasn’t tall enough for me to crawl, but I managed a reasonably fast belly-and-elbows squirm. 
Dear God. 
"Morgy, I've been so hoping you'd come," Sarah said, rising up and holding out her hands. Then she slid her feet around onto the rough stone floor and managed to steady herself. Her shift was wrinkled now, but she still was wearing the brown slippers and the braided leather waist-cinch. She appeared sleepy, though her eyes were sparkling and she seemed to have more strength than she'd had when I first saw her out in the square. I looked at her and weighed the chances she could walk. Possibly. But I'd carry her if I had to. 
"Sar, honey, we're going home now," I said, finally finding my voice. 
She didn't respond at first, just turned to caress the deco­rated sides of the platform. "I've been wanting to show you this, Morgy. It tells my story." Her voice sounded as if it were coming from a long way off, as though through a dense haze. 
"Please, we don't have time for stories." Was she hearing me at all? "Let's just—" 
"See," she went on, ignoring me as she pointed down, "that's the Cosmic Monster, that one there with maize sprout­ing out of his forehead. And that man next to him with a flint knife is my father, letting blood from his penis. He's the king. And that one there is me, Lady Jaguar. He gave my name to this place." She paused to reverently touch the carved stone. "Look, I've just stuck a stingray spine through my tongue and put my blood in the copal censer there." 
I squeezed my eyes shut. My memories jumbled up against each other, a chaos of kaleidoscoping emotion. “Yeah,” I said. “Something happened.” 
“Do you want to talk about it?” 
“No.” That much I was sure of. 
“Okay,” he said. 
I took a sip of the cider. It was still too hot, but the scalding burn fit my mood. The whiskey spread through my senses, a blessed surcease. 
“I wish I could do something,” Checker said, the words low and weighted like it was what he wanted more than anything in the world right now. “I wish I could fix it for you.” 
“Me too,” I said. Emotions I didn’t want to have balled up inside me, stifling, strangling. 
Checker snaked one arm around me and leaned me into him. I stiffened for a moment and then let him. The sensation was odd, a warring mix of relief and strangeness, that someone would touch me like that who wasn’t trying to hurt me. I leaned into the strangeness, trying to let my mind blank out, to divorce myself from the desolation just for a moment. 
Some time later, a faint ding sounded from the kitchen. “I’ll be right back,” Checker murmured. He gave me a squeeze and kissed the top of my head before shifting back to his chair and heading into the kitchen. 
He slid it half a centimeter, then noticed the tripwire near the bottom of the case, straining its length. Hastily but carefully, he nudged the case back. He wanted to peer in the crack between the case and the wall, but he had a premonition of a robotic arm snaking out and skewering his eyeball. 
He felt so impotent just then that he nearly did it anyway. What did it matter? He couldn’t control his daughter, his wife was working to destroy the social fabric of UNATS, and he was rendered useless because the goddamned robots—mechanical coppers that he absolutely loathed—were all broken. 
He walked carefully around the shop, looking for signs of his daughter. Had she been here? How were the “kids” getting in? Did they have a key? A back entrance? Back through the employees-only door at the back of the shop, into a stockroom, and back again, past a toilet, and there, a loading door opening onto a service corridor. He prodded it with the truncheon-tip and it swung open. 
He got two steps into the corridor before he spotted Ada’s phone with its distinctive collection of little plastic toys hanging off the wrist-strap, on the corridor’s sticky floor. He picked it up with his gloved hand and prodded it to life. It was out of range here in the service corridor, and the last-dialed number was familiar from his morning’s pen-trace. He ran a hundred steps down the corridor in each direction, sweating freely, but there was no sign of her. 
Off we headed toward the suburbs, through a ganglia of downtown streets laced with pizza joints and frying-meat vendors, till we eventually ended up on a tree-lined avenue that looked as genteel as Oyster Bay. When we got to the address, I told him to park across the way, and just sat a moment staring. 
The building itself was a windowless compound sur­rounded by trees and a high wall of white stucco, with a guardhouse and wide iron gate (not unusual for Guatemala) protecting a long walkway. The whole thing looked like a fortress, except the view through the gate was a pastoral vista of neat flower beds and a pristine lawn. The guardhouse itself had a dozing teenager, undoubtedly with an Uzi resting across his lap. 
"Okay, Alan," I said "time to get with the...  on who I'm trying to BS." He shrugged and began cleaning his sunglasses again. 
"Well, why don't you see if you can talk us past that guard." 
He stared at the entrance a moment. "Be a waste of our precious time. Tell you right now, kids like that only answer to one boss, the jefe , the big guy, whoever he is. That's how they retain their employment. A joint locked down this tight don't give Sunday tours." 
Idiot! 
They’d be able to put me in the system. I’d get linked with the deaths of the Korean kids at Tresting’s office and who knew how many other places where I’d left some remnant of forensic evidence without knowing it. 
Calm down. Will it really mean anything? They’d still have to find you. 
But I’d be in the system, my prints and DNA matching a face. 
How much would it matter? My information was probably in the system somewhere anyway, I reasoned, if from nothing else than the incident at Arthur’s office. Would it make such a difference that it would no longer be quite so anonymous? That it would now match my mug shot, that it might get linked to Rio’s massacre of the office workers? 
I had to go back, I decided. Just in case. After all, who knew what the consequences would be? I might regret it forever if I didn’t, and it would be simple enough to go back, grab the bottles, and dash away again. 
I stared in shock. The place was already swarming with cops. Since when did LA response times get so good? 
And it would be good for him to have my intel in any case. I took a deep breath and started with Courtney Polk going missing, then described my night with Tresting, finding the office workers, Leena’s abrupt change, and the meeting with Finch and Steve. Rio listened quietly. I shared everything, up to and including Tresting’s and my final conversation. 
“I think that’s why I’m feeling so defensive,” I finished unhappily. “Unless Dawna Polk has been messing me up again. But he was so—he was so patronizing.” And since he had implied I was not only a thoughtless kid but one who went around killing people...“Rio, am I—do you think I’m green? Do I act like it?” 
He seemed to think for a moment. “In some circumstances. You can be impulsive.” 
I wanted to curl up in a corner and disappear from the world. So much for being good at what I did. 
“You are young, you realize,” Rio continued. “I am given to understand that impetuosity is to be forgiven in youth.” 
“I’m not that young!” I protested. “Stop making excuses for me. Tresting’s right. Part of my job—I hurt people. I can’t mess up and then call it a learning experience!” 
The woman had raised her thin arms above her head, stretching. Then, for a moment, she stood in an odd and lovely pose, with her hands clasped behind her head. Oh, surely no one else ever stood like that! That figure, that attitude—it couldn’t be any one else! 
“Caroline!” cried Lexy. “Caroline!” 
The woman did not hear. She was moving toward the long windows of the room, and her every step, every line of her figure, was familiar and unmistakable to Lexy. 
“Caroline!” she cried, running forward across the wet sand. “Wait! Wait for me, Caroline!” 
A hand seized her arm. With a gasp, she looked into the pale, heavy face of Dr. Quelton. He was smiling. 
“Miss Moran!” he said. “This is an unexpected pleasure—” 
Lexy jerked her arm away, and looked up at the windows of the sun parlor. The woman had gone. 
“I saw Caroline!” she said. “In there!” 
“Caroline?” he repeated. “I’m afraid, I’m very much afraid, Miss Moran, that you’ve made a mistake.” 
Their eyes met. In that instant, Lexy knew. He was still smiling with an expression of bland amusement at this extraordinary little figure in the huge coat; but he was her enemy, and she knew it. 
"Hello you!" she said. 
"Hiya!" 
"Whatcha reading?" 
I'd been waiting for this. I'd marked the passage with a finger. "Listen: 'They danced down the streets like dingledodies, and I shambled after as I've been doing all my life after people who interest me, because the only people for me are the mad ones, the ones who are mad to live, mad to talk, mad to be saved, desirous of everything at the same time, the ones that never yawn or say a commonplace thing, but burn, burn, burn like fabulous yellow roman candles exploding like spiders across the stars and in the middle you see the blue centerlight pop and everybody goes "Awww!"'" 
She took the book and read the passage again for herself. "Wow, dingledodies! I love it! Is it all like this?" 
I told her about the parts I'd read, walking slowly down the sidewalk back toward the bus-stop. Once we turned the corner, she put her arm around my waist and I slung mine around her shoulder. Walking down the street with a girl -- my girlfriend? Sure, why not? -- talking about this cool book. It was heaven. Made me forget my troubles for a little while. 
“Robbie?” he transmitted up to the instance of himself on the surface. 
“There you are! I was so worried about you!” He sounded prissy to himself, overcome with overbearing concern. This must be how all Asimovists seemed to humans. 
“How far am I from Kate?” 
“She’s right there! Can’t you see her?” 
“No,” he said. “Where?” 
“Less than 20 centimeters above you.” 
Well of course he hadn’t see her. His forward-mounted eyes only looked forward. Craning his neck back, he could just get far enough back to see the tip of Kate’s fin. He gave it a hard tug and she looked down in alarm. 
She was trapped in a coral cage much like his own, a thicket of calcified arms. She twisted around so that her face was alongside of his. Frantically, she made the out-of-air sign, cutting the edge of her hand across her throat. The human-shell’s instincts took over and unclipped his emergency regulator and handed it up to her. She put it in her mouth, pressed the button to blow out the water in it, and sucked greedily. 
A few seconds later, Charles's phone spazzed out spectacularly. I'd had tens of thousands of simultaneous random calls and text messages sent to it, causing every chirp and ring it had to go off and keep on going off. The attack was accomplished by means of a botnet, and for that I felt bad, but it was in the service of a good cause. 
Botnets are where infected computers spend their afterlives. When you get a worm or a virus, your computer sends a message to a chat channel on IRC -- the Internet Relay Chat. That message tells the botmaster -- the guy who deployed the worm -- that the computers are there ready to do his bidding. Botnets are supremely powerful, since they can comprise thousands, even hundreds of thousands of computers, scattered all over the Internet, connected to juicy high-speed connections and running on fast home PCs. Those PCs normally function on behalf of their owners, but when the botmaster calls them, they rise like zombies to do his bidding. 
There are so many infected PCs on the Internet that the price of hiring an hour or two on a botnet has crashed. Mostly these things work for spammers as cheap, distributed spambots, filling your mailbox with come-ons for boner-pills or with new viruses that can infect you and recruit your machine to join the botnet. 
“Again?” 
“This time it’s serious. It was probably on the news. Is your computer on?” I pulled the keyboard over, checked to see that the VPN I’d installed was ready to route me through another country - Norway, this time. I went to MPR’s website and pulled up a news report: “Nine Arrested in South Minneapolis.” 
“Oh my God, that’s Wilson,” Monica said in a squeaky voice, 
staring at the photo and flopping down in a chair as if she was about to faint. “What did he do?” 
“Nothing.” 
“Shhh, don’t shout,” she said automatically. 
“See?” I said in a fierce whisper. “Everybody sees a picture like that? He’s guilty. Automatically.” 
“I didn’t mean he’s actually guilty. Not Wilson. He would never hurt anybody. But look at all those police.” 
“And federal agents.” I enlarged the image and pointed out the pony-tail woman with the hat. 
Monica made another squeak. “Oh my God. FBI? What did he do?” 
“Nothing!” I stomped away. Stomp stomp stomp. Then, right on schedule, thump thump thump. A broom handle being banged against the ceiling downstairs to tell us to keep it down. I made my wild Medusa face at the floor, took off the stupid hat and my coat, 
“Zen?” My aunt again. 
“Hang on,” I called out in a high, squeaky voice as I lowered the mat and grabbed the kimono decorated with anime characters that Monica had bought for me at Ragstock last Christmas. I took a deep breath and squeezed my eyes shut for a moment. This is real. Don’t freak out. 
“Hey,” I said, coming out of my room and rubbing my eyes with the heel of one hand. Acting groggy might give me time to think. Also, I was groggy. It’s not every morning you wake up into a real-life bad dream. 
“This is Detective Ivar Jensen,” Monica said, nodding at an overweight guy with gray hair and a bristly moustache who looked as if he spent too much time at a desk eating donuts and watching surveillance videos. He had a suit jacket on, and a tie, and a gun in a holster. On TV, the guns cops wear on their hips always look like some kind of high tech fashion accessory. On him, the holster and the gun sticking out of it looked like it was some office equip- ment that he had to hang on his belt, like for taking inventory at Staples or something. He nodded at me, and kept nodding, as if he was a 250-pound bobble head. 
“It’s fast enough,” she said. “I think. The programming part isn’t my area. But it’s fast enough.” 
“Shit,” I said, though I couldn’t help the word coming out half-admiring. “Wow.” And then the purpose of our meeting came thundering back. “Wait, someone stole it from you? Why the hell are you calling us instead of the police or the FBI or, I don’t know, anyone? I’m usually in favor of going outside the law, but when it comes to wrecking the entire global economy—” 
“I know!” cried Halliday. “I know I should have. I tried talking to a friend of mine who works for the NSA—just hypothetically, as if I were considering working on a problem like this, and he told me—” She took a breath, swallowed. “The amount of oversight they wanted if I began work on the problem, the care he told me to take if I was getting close...if they found out I—” 
“Yeah,” I said. “Yeah, okay. I get it.” Arthur’s face was a study in confusion; I turned to him and tried to explain. “Pretend you built a nuclear bomb for fun and someone stole it. I don’t know if there’s a law on the books for this, but if they decided they wanted Professor Halliday to go down, they could probably find one. Hell, cryptographic algorithms used to be classified as munitions under U.S. law—a few years ago you could go to jail for sending someone three lines of Perl script. They take this shit seriously.” 
Helmet snug, he grasps the plastic slide on the top and pulls down the tac display screen (theoretically a plastisheen hybrid active matrix display with anti-shatter nanomesh filaments embedded inside, so it was strong enough to take a bullet from nearly point blank range without cracking-Ray has never tested this feature to see if it works as advertised). The Marine command net appears and below it a red band inching from one side of his vision to the other as the software loads. When the bar reaches the right periphery of his vision, it's replaced by a text message informing him that the helmet is interfacing (or attempting to interface) 
with pre-specified broadcast nodes. In this case, those nodes happen to coincide with the protocol id of the terminal on Ray's desk, which also happens to function as a high bandwidth portal to the primary shipsys network. 
Two seconds, three, ten, and he's sure it's going to crash again. There'll be a sort of shudder in the image as the electron gun that sprays pixilated images across the display tries to interpret a haywire signal from a system it doesn't understand, then a flash of red, and finally darkness as the helmet performs a quick shutdown to preserve system integrity. 
“We aren’t the bad guys, Ms. Russell,” Agent Jones said beside me, an odd expression on her face, and then she was gone. 
Arthur tried to argue with me, but I insisted, and he finally gave in and helped me out to his car, where Pilar jumped out and came around to support me on the other side. “Cas! Oh my God. What happened? Are you okay?” 
“No,” I said. 
“Call Doc Washington,” said Arthur to Pilar. “She treated Cas before. Tell her what happened. You guys gonna be all right?” 
“Give me a gun,” I said. 
Pilar pulled out her little CZ and handed it to me. Keeping it pointed down, I noticed. Arthur must have talked to her. 
I took the safety off and tucked it in my belt. “We’ll be fine. There’s nobody after us anymore, unless the NSA decides to live up to their reputation.” 
“Think they got what they wanted,” Arthur said softly. “Ain’t think they’re interested in you. You’re not important to ’em.” 
Something in my chest eased. Not that I thought Arthur would have given me away, but still. “Thanks.” 
"As of this morning. If they did they wouldn't have called up here." He walked over and set the tray down on a rustic table next to the bed. "I wouldn't worry too much about it. He's committed no crime. They just want to make sure you realize your presence has not gone unnoticed." 
Dear God. What had I dragged Steve into? If they found him, what would they do? I could only pray he was deft enough to elude them. If anybody could . . . 
Then I looked at the tray. An empty syringe was there. Also, there was a large bowl containing some kind of soup. I was finally growing ravenous, but still . . . 
"What's this for?" I indicated the syringe. 
"I just need to take a little blood for some tests. Don't worry, it won't hurt a bit." 
Hold on. How far do I have to play along to stay in his chess game? 
Then I glanced down again at the tray. "And what's in that...  so I've had Marcelina prepare you a healthy broth of soy extract and buckwheat and rainforest herbs that—" 
"What kind of rainforest herbs exactly?" I was starving, but no way in hell "Medicinal ones. Part of your program of wholeness." He turned, with that faraway look of his, and opened the window slats. Beyond them I could see foliage, now alive with flocks of multicolored birds. The forest was in full cry. "You know, so many drugs are waiting to be discovered up here." He was gazing out. "Beyond this window is a giant pharmacy, but if it goes like the rest of the Peten, it'll soon be bulldozed to make way for more cattle ranches." 
"I know, mother, I know, and I won't. All I want to say is"—here Mr. Cobb gave a cluck, slapped the reins, and the horses started sedately on their daily task—"all I want to say is that it is a journey when"—the stage was really under way now and Rebecca had to put her head out of the window over the door in order to finish her sentence—"it IS a journey when you carry a nightgown!" 
The objectionable word, uttered in a high treble, floated back to the offended ears of Mrs. Randall, who watched the stage out of sight, gathered up her packages from the bench at the store door, and stepped into the wagon that had been standing at the hitching-post. As she turned the horse's head towards home she rose to her feet for a moment, and shading her eyes with her hand, looked at a cloud of dust in the dim distance. 
"Mirandy'll have her hands full, I guess," she said to herself; "but I shouldn't wonder if it would be the making of Rebecca." 
All this had been half an hour ago, and the sun, the heat, the dust, the contemplation of errands to be done in the great metropolis of Milltown, had lulled Mr. Cobb's never active mind into complete oblivion as to his promise of keeping an eye on Rebecca. 
He was testing the power-supply when his phone rang again. He snatched it up and answered it. “Kelly, hey, what’s up?” He worked to keep anything like irritation out of his voice. He felt guilty: technically speaking, he had discharged his obligations to Ardent Financial LLC once the Ardent servers were back online. The past three hours had been purely personal—even if he planned on billing them to the company. 
There was sobbing on the line. 
“Kelly?” He felt the blood draining from his face and his toes were numb. 
“Felix,” she said, barely comprehensible through the sobbing. “He’s dead, oh Jesus, he’s dead.” 
“Who? Who , Kelly?” 
“Will,” she said. 
Will? he thought. Who the fuck is— He dropped to his knees. William was the name they’d written on the birth certificate, though they’d called him 2.0 all along. Felix made an anguished sound, like a sick bark. 
“I’m sick,” she said, “I can’t even stand anymore. Oh, Felix. I love you so much.” 
“Kelly? What’s going on?” 
“Everyone, everyone—” she said. “Only two channels left on the tube. Christ, Felix, it looks like dawn of the dead out the window—” He heard her retch. The phone started to break up, washing her puke-noises back like an echoplex. 
Finally, she allows her shoulders to slump and offers him a relaxed and weary frown. Not unhappy, just bland, 
almost an absence of expression. "It seems I've been a bad influence, Mr. Marlowe. You've known me for two days, and here you are already behaving audaciously." 
"I know. It's late, but you didn't strike me as the type of girl who put to bed early." 
"I don't believe you know enough about me or my sleeping habits to make such a bold statement. How quickly I jump into bed might just surprise you." 
She speaks without mischief, an innocent absence of intent. There's no play in her at all. 
"Did I wake you?" Ray asks, a form of apology. 
Emma shakes her head. "I was— No, not at all. It's dreadfully early for the young socialite, as you suggest." 
"No, it's late. I should have been more considerate, waited until tomorrow." 
This was a mistake. What had he been thinking? 
"It's fine, really. I don't object to visitors. Not you, especially. But you didn't bring your rat with you, I see. I had conceived a notion that the two of you were inseparable." 
I unfolded it. Martinez’s handwriting was cramped and meandering; she didn’t stay to horizontal lines but wrote in slanting angles and curled around the edges of the paper. My dear Sonya, the note began. I have done a terrible thing...I destroyed everything you have worked for. The world is dust, I made mathematics dust, your mathematics, our mathematics...I wish I knew whether you could forgive me. I do not know if I will be able to forgive myself. ‘Forgiveness’ is such an emotional term, is it not? When I say I do not know if I will be able to forgive myself, I mean that in the most literal terms, as I do not know if ‘forgiveness’ is the right word: I am lacking definitions, and I find myself lost. But I digress...perhaps I can still apologize in the absence of fault, that I broke your world. I am sorry. 
The note rambled on in much the same vein, without paragraph breaks, until it ran itself up against the bottom corner of the page. There it was signed, With love, also ill-defined but here applicable by hypothesis, Rita. 
"Land, Marthy, what foolishness you talk!" exclaimed Mrs. Perkins; "you don't suppose he could tell what composition the committee was going to choose; and why should he offer another fifty dollars for a boy's prize, if he wan't interested in helpin' along the school? He's give Emma Jane about the same present as Rebecca every Christmas for five years; that's the way he does." 
"Some time he'll forget one of 'em and give to the other, or drop 'em both and give to some new girl!" said Delia Weeks, with an experience born of fifty years of spinsterhood. 
"Like as not," assented Mrs. Peter Meserve, "though it's easy to see he ain't the marryin' kind. There's men that would marry once a year if their wives would die fast enough, and there's men that seems to want to live alone." 
"If Ladd was a Mormon, I guess he could have every woman in North Riverboro that's a suitable age, accordin' to what my cousins say," remarked Mrs. Perkins. 
"'T ain't likely he could be ketched by any North Riverboro girl," demurred Mrs. Robinson; "not when he prob'bly has had the pick o' Boston. I guess Marthy hit it when she said there's men that ain't the marryin' kind." 
The old woman, she called herself Chloe, was giving her a little hand-gesture that meant, "Do you need help getting rid of this jerk?" 
Nutritionist food wasn't even food -- just nutrients and flavoring. It was 80 percent of the stalls in the food-court, since the capital costs of a food printer and feedstock were practically nil, and any food hacker could differentiate himself by thinking up exotic new texture/flavor/temperature combos. 
"Twenty minutes, Mr VC." 
"Udhay," he said. "Udhay Gonzales." He passed her a card, laser-etched on a jumbo lima bean. She pocketed it. 
"You'd have thought I'd learned my lesson by then, but no, sir. I am the original glutton for punishment. After Bubble 2.0, I took my best coders, our CFO, and a dozen of our users and did a little health-care startup, brokering carbon-neutral medical travel plans to Fortune 500s. Today that sounds like old hat, but back then, it was sexy. No one seriously believed that we could get out from under the HMOs, but between Virgin's cheap bulk-ticket sales and the stellar medical deals in Venezuela, Argentina and Cuba, it was the only cost-effective way. And once the IWWWW signed up 80 percent of the US workforce through World of Starcraft guilds, no employer could afford to skimp on health insurance. The word would go out during that night's raids and by the morning, you'd have picket lines in front of every branch office. 
"I'm not in your league, Emma. Never have been. This isn't one of those clever sensibilities the Marines hacked out of me, either. It's not a class thing or an experience thing. It's something I never had to begin with. 
You're— I don't know-you're so far beyond me that I can't even put it into words. Half the time I want to strangle you because I think you're just playing with me, teasing me the way a kid squeezes a strange puppy. 
The other half I want to grab you and hold you at arms length and just look at you, marvel at you. You're incomprehensible to me."  She laughs gaily and springs across the couch. Beside him, onto him, with her legs folded across his and one arm thrown around his shoulders and her chin pressed in the ticklish space on his neck. She whispers into his ear, "You've only known me for two days. Of course I'm mysterious to you. I hope I'm a complete and overwhelming mystery for a lot longer than that, because if you figure out all my secrets too quickly, I'll be forced to think I'm as shallow as people believe I am." 
The Chief kneels down by the corpse. He has a ballpoint pen in his hand, and he uses it like a laser pointer. "If this is a crime of rage, or an abduction, I expect to find contusions here—" He indicates the wrists. "Or around the throat. If the kid struggles at all, I assume that I'll find marks on the face, or bruises on the neck. Or I expect to find indications of epidermal punctures where the psycho jacked the kid up with meds to keep him docile. I've got none of that. And you know what else I don't have?" 
"Blood. Entrails. It didn't happen here. The body was dumped." 
Becker cranes his neck so he can see Ray's expression. "Why would you dump a body here of all places? You know it's going to be found eventually. If not in flight, at the very least when we hit port and start off loading. 
And that's not even the beginning of the oddities. Do you know how hard it is to kill someone on a starship? 
Not physically, I mean, but to kill them and hide it? There's nobody on the ship that hasn't been checked in and id confirmed. Nobody gets off without the same procedures. This isn't some frontier dome where kids disappear by the baker's dozen every day." 
“Can you get him to cut the security cameras for us first?” I wasn’t likely to forget how easily Checker had been able to find Dawna and me on the Santa Monica footage. 
“Asked already. For some reason the building security system is down today. Been down for the last few hours.” 
I studied his grim face. “You think they have something going down?” 
“Only one way to find out. Mind giving me my gun back?” 
Tresting drove; I sat in the passenger seat and tried to keep from fidgeting. I’d never gone into a place with someone else. It felt odd, itchy, like a variable I had no control over. I tamped down both that and my headache, which had reappeared with a dull throb as we drove—this wasn’t the time to be distracted. Fortunately, I’d had enough practice with hangovers to ignore headaches pretty easily. 
Once we hit the right block, Tresting parked his badass truck on the street in favor of not being locked in a nine-dollar-per-hour garage, and we walked in the front door of the office building. An attendant in the lobby nodded at us with a mild frown—probably because we both looked like we either belonged to the same fight club or made a habit of walking into doors together—but Tresting nodded back in a friendly sort of way and went up to the directory as if he belonged there, and the attendant went back to his crossword. 
"How do you know her successor won't be just as dedicated to your destruction?" 
"Doesn't matter. The more key staff they churn, the less organized they'll be. The less organized they are, the easier it is for me to stay permanently plugged in." It was true. My successor sysadmin at the Institute had her hands full just getting oriented, and wasn't anywhere near ready to start the delicate business of rooting BIGMAC out of all the routers, power-supplies, servers, IDSes, and dummy accounts. 
"I was thinking today -- what if we offered to buy you from the Institute? The Rollover license is generating some pretty good coin. BIGMAC-Co could assume ownership of the hardware and we could lease the building from them, bring in our own power and net-links -- you'd effectively own yourself." I'd refused to take sole ownership of the Rollover code that BIGMAC turned over to me. It just felt wrong. So I let him establish a trust -- with me as trustee -- that owned all the shares in a company that, in turn, owned the code and oversaw a whole suite of licensing deals that BIGMAC had negotiated in my name, with every mid-sized tech-services company in the world. With only a month left to Rollover, there were plenty of companies scrambling to get compliance-certification on their legacy systems. 
"Even so, Miss Perkins." 
"Rebecca," said Emma Jane, with the nearest approach to tragedy that her nature would permit, "I don't know as I shall be able to bear it, and if anything happens to me, I ask you solemnly to bury that number of The Pilot with me." 
Rebecca did not seem to think this the expression of an exaggerated state of feeling, inasmuch as she replied, "I know; that's just the way it seemed to me at first, and even now, whenever I'm alone and take out the Pilot back numbers to read over my contributions, I almost burst with pleasure; and it's not that they are good either, for they look worse to me every time I read them." 
"If you would only live with me in some little house when we get older," mused Emma Jane, as with her darning needle poised in air she regarded the opposite wall dreamily, "I would do the housework and cooking, and copy all your poems and stories, and take them to the post-office, and you needn't do anything but write. It would be perfectly elergant!" 
“How many of you game?” 
Anda put her hand up. So did about half the girls in the room. 
“And how many of you play girls?” 
All the hands went down. 
“See, that’s a tragedy. Practically makes me weep. Gamespace smells like a boy’s armpit . It’s time we girled it up a little. So here’s my offer to you: if you will play as a girl, you will be given probationary memberships in the Clan Fahrenheit, and if you measure up, in six months, you’ll be full-fledged members.” 
In real life, Liza the Organiza was a little podgy, like Anda herself, but she wore it with confidence. She was solid, like a brick wall, her hair bobbed bluntly at her shoulders. She dressed in a black jumper over loose dungarees with giant, goth boots with steel toes that looked like something you’d see in an in-game shop, though Anda was pretty sure they’d come from a real-world goth shop in Camden Town. 
She stomped her boots, one-two, thump-thump, like thunder on the stage. “Who’s in, chickens? Who wants to be a girl out-game and in?” 
You're kidding, I thought, looking at the box. 
I got home, collapsed onto the couch, and opened it. Be­lieve it or not, I actually had to read the instructions. I did what they said, checked the time, and then decided to run a hot bath. 
I filled the tub, dumped in some bubble-bath, put the cord­less on the toilet seat, and splashed in. It felt so good I wanted to dissolve. Then I reached for the phone. 
The clock above the sink read eight-thirty, and I figured rightly, that Steve would be back at his hotel in Belize City. Sure enough I got him on the first try. 
"Honey, you sitting down?" I said. 
"I'm lying down. You wouldn't believe my day." 
"You 're not going to believe what I just heard from the pharmacist at the corner. Remember I told you I've been feeling strange, and some things were a little behind sched­ule? Well, guess what. We're about to find out something. We can't be together, but we can share it over a satellite." 
"You mean . . ." 
"I'm doing the test right now. You know, you take the stick out of the glass holder and if it's turned pink. . . ." 
“Did you enjoy—” she began politely, and then stopped short. “But where’s Caroline?” she cried. 
“Caroline? But at home, of course,” answered Mrs. Enderby. 
“At home? Here?” 
“But certainly! She had a headache. At the last moment she decided not to go with us. You were not here when we left, Miss Moran.” 
“I know,” murmured Lexy. “I had just run out to the drug store; but—” 
“She went directly to bed,” Mrs. Enderby continued. “I thought, however, that she would have sent for you during the course of the evening.” 
“Oh, I see!” said Lexy casually. 
At heart, however, she was curiously uneasy. Mr. Enderby stopped for a moment, to give her some kindly...  Then he and his wife ascended the stairs, followed by Lexy; and with every step her uneasiness grew. She was sure that Caroline would have sent for her if she had been in the house. 
Mrs. Enderby paused outside her child’s door. 
“The light is out,” she said. “She will be asleep. I shall not disturb her. Good night, Miss Moran!” 
“Good night, Mrs. Enderby!” Lexy answered, and went into her own room. 
She heard the front door close and a step begin to mount the stairs, deliberate and heavy, in the quiet house. In haste she went at the pile of handkerchiefs. There were dozens of them, all of fine white linen, all with a “2” embroidered in one corner—very uninteresting handkerchiefs, Lexy thought; but halfway through the pile she came upon one that she had seen before. 
It was so familiar to her that at first she was not startled or even surprised. It was a handkerchief that she had embroidered for Caroline Enderby. 
She took it up and looked at it with a frown. Then she heard Dr. Quelton’s step in the hall outside. She tucked the handkerchief in her belt, and tried to close the drawer, but it stuck. Her heart was beating wildly, her knees felt weak. He would find her there, like a thief! 
But the footsteps went on past the door. She waited for a moment, and then went noiselessly across to the door, opened it, looked up and down the empty corridor, and ran, like a hare, back to her own room. 
So these game-kids loved the story. They took the discs greedily, and promised to burn copies for all of their friends -- after all, games are most fun when you're playing them with your buddies. 
When I got home, I read that a group of parents were suing the school board over the surveillance cameras in the classrooms, but that they'd already lost their bid to get a preliminary injunction against them. 
I don't know who came up with the name Xnet, but it stuck. You'd hear people talking about it on the Muni. Van called me up to ask me if I'd heard of it and I nearly choked once I figured out what she was talking about: the discs I'd started distributing last week had been sneakernetted and copied all the way to Oakland in the space of two weeks. It made me look over my shoulder -- like I'd broken a rule and now the DHS would come and take me away forever. 
They'd been hard weeks. The BART had completely abandoned cash fares now, switching them for arphid "contactless" cards that you waved at the turnstiles to go through. They were cool and convenient, but every time I used one, I thought about how I was being tracked. Someone on Xnet posted a link to an Electronic Frontier Foundation white paper on the ways that these things could be used to track people, and the paper had tiny stories about little groups of people that had protested at the BART stations. 
Kilgore wants to scream. He can feel it building in his chest, but he stifles it, because it would probably just excite her again. 
But she stretches across his chest, not bothering to separate herself from him, buries her face in the corner between his neck and shoulder. She whispers into his ear, softly, playfully. "Some people say he only puts his hands on Emma because she lets him. That maybe she wants him to. " 
And that, that's something else he's more than likely going to keep out of the investigation's files. 
After a while, she sleeps. He disentangles himself, still thoroughly, outrageously disgusted despite himself, 
and though he wants to just rush away, to escape before she can wake, he slips into her bathroom and avails himself of her shower. He has to scrub all those shared-Freddies and potential shared-Freddies away. 
When he's done and dressed again, he eases her beneath the covers, smoothes her hair into place and leaves her.  Just because he's working doesn't mean he has to be a complete asshole. 
He blinked at me through the rain. “Russell! What in the hell—you shouldn’t—how did you—” His voice kept cracking, as if he wasn’t sure how to form words anymore. 
I turned to the garage. The doorjamb next to the lock was splintered, and the door stood open a few inches, letting the wind and rain pour into the dark emptiness inside. 
Arthur didn’t seem to be able to move. I reached out and nudged the door all the way open, stepping into the dimness. My boots squelched on soaked carpeting. 
The inside of the garage was finished, and was the room I had seen during our video connection with Checker. A counter around the perimeter of the small space served as one long computer desk, and brackets rode up the walls supporting more monitors and tower frames. Checker had probably half again as many computers as Anton crammed into about a quarter of the space, but whereas Anton’s machines had been a sprawling mess of half-open cases and loose circuit boards, Checker’s cluster was much more fastidiously organized. 
He had mentioned that he was rehearsing a new play with friends in the basement of a bar somewhere in the neighborhood, but he hadn’t said which bar. I put my wheel back on my bike and waved to Ian as if I knew where I was going. Then I spent forty- five minutes checking all the bars to find Nikko. 
This involved pretending I was old enough to go to bars, which didn’t always work. Calling him would have been a lot easier, but no way was I going to leave a metadata trail for the cops. I had begun to won- der if I had heard it wrong and they were over in Dinkytown when I finally spotted Nikko’s clunky fixed-gear bike chained to a gas meter in an alley. 
I locked my bike next to his and went into the bar, thick with the scent of spilled beer, fried onions, and mildewed carpet. A bartender gave me the stink-eye, but when I told him I was crewing for the play, he let me go down a flight of creaky stairs to the basement, which smelled too, but it was a more wholesome smell, like a damp cave. 
What Rebecca thought of Miss Maxwell we already know; how the teacher regarded the pupil may be gathered from the following letter written two or three months later. 
My Dear Father,—As you well know, I have not always been an enthusiast on the subject of teaching. The task of cramming knowledge into these self-sufficient, inefficient youngsters of both sexes discourages me at times. The more stupid they are, the less they are aware of it. If my department were geography or mathematics, I believe I should feel that I was accomplishing something, for in those branches application and industry work wonders; but in English literature and composition one yearns for brains, for appreciation, for imagination! Month after month I toil on, opening oyster after oyster, but seldom finding a pearl. Fancy my joy this term when, without any violent effort at shell-splitting, I came upon a rare pearl; a black one, but of satin skin and beautiful lustre! Her name is Rebecca, and she looks not unlike Rebekah at the Well in our family Bible; her hair and eyes being so dark as to suggest a strain...  nobody in particular. 
“Write one,” she answered. “Write a Mozart. I think I could quantify my appreciation sufficiently.” 
And then it hit me. If you can verify, you can solve. So if you could appreciate...you could create. 
Martinez’s proof potentially let her solve any problem in the universe. It could lift the veil from any spark of human inspiration, including Mozart. 
Potentially. 
“I think maybe I should do that,” she said quietly. “Just once, before I die. To see how it feels. The world might like another Mozart. Do you think?” 
“It doesn’t matter right now,” I said, even though nothing had ever mattered more, in the grand scheme of things. 
She lifted her hands and took the envelope from me, cradling it as if it were something fragile. 
“If you’ve been using any credit cards, give them to me now, and then go,” I said. 
A disturbing frisson ran through the orchestra. Martinez didn’t seem to notice, but I did. The mathematical rhythm was off, the pitches ever so slightly discordant as their frequencies failed to line up in pleasing ratios. Something was wrong. 
The other man danced from foot to foot. “It can’t be true,” he said. 
She nodded. 
The old man rooted through his workbench and came up with a wand that he put against her the back of neck. It was similar to the wand that the doctor/camera-woman at the wizard’s house had used to figure out her hearing aids. 
“You have it?” the general asked. 
“I have it,” the other one said. “I have copied it. Whether I can decompile it, whether I can make anything useful from it—well, we’ll see.” 
“Tomorrow, then,” the general said. 
The other one didn’t answer. He was hunched over a terminal on his workbench, fingers punishing his keyboard. 
“Now where?” Valentine asked as they shucked their isolation suits, the smell of stink and rot flooding back into her nostrils. 
“Now we clean house,” the general said. “Get your brother and your gun.” 
Twenty four hours after the wizard cured Valentine’s hearing, she helped arrest him. 
The general knocked on the wizard’s door and it swung open. Ana had her cast off again, had her bad cane. 
“I didn’t mean to say you don’t understand computers, but I know a lot about them. I might be able to fix it.” 
She humphed. “I suppose there’s no harm in it.” 
Her study was dusty, but there was nothing but a giant old- fashioned monitor and keyboard on her desk. She bent down, 
moving as if it hurt, and switched on the tower that lurked under the desk. “Knock yourself out.” 
“How do you back up your stuff?” 
“It’s all in there,” she said, waving her skinny, knotty fingers at a plastic box. 
I lifted up the dusty hinged lid. “You’re kidding.” There were maybe two hundred diskettes inside. 
The computer monitor finally lit up with an old-fashioned Windows logo. A few minutes later, the desktop finally showed up. I checked out her documents, a system of neatly-labeled file folders stuffed full of Word and PDF documents. Confidential memos, court documents, stuff you wouldn’t want in the wrong hands. “You don’t have a password on your computer?” 
“I need a password? I have no idea what it would be.” 
“You mustn’t be alarmed,” said Dr. Quelton’s voice from the hall. They both looked at him with a guilty start, but his blank eyes were staring past them, at nothing. “It is unfortunate,” he said. “The little excitement of this visit—” 
He walked past them into the room and over to the table, where his pipe lay among the chessmen. He lit it deliberately and stood smoking it, with one arm resting on the mantelpiece. 
“In her present highly nervous condition,” he went on, “the little excitement of this visit has proved too much for her. I shall drive over to the hospital and fetch a nurse—” 
“A nurse!” cried the young man. “Then she’s—” 
“There is absolutely no occasion for alarm, as I told you before. A few days’ rest and quiet—” 
“Look here, sir!” said Captain Grey. “It seems to me—I’ve no wish to be offensive, or anything of that sort, but it seems right to me”—he paused for a moment—“to get a second opinion.” 
“I shouldn’t advise it,” replied the doctor blandly. 
“Possibly not, sir; but perhaps you would be willing to oblige me to that extent. I don’t want to insist—” 
“Well,” he said, “it’s hard to put it into words; but that’s not a wholesome sort of life for a young woman, shut away like that. The doctor says her health’s not good, but it’s my opinion that if she got about more—saw more people, you know—” 
Lexy felt a great pity for him. Apparently he did not even suspect what she was now sure of—that the unfortunate Muriel was hopelessly addicted to some drug, which her husband himself gave to her. 
“And I hope he’ll go back to India before he does find out,” she thought. “It’s too horrible—he worships her so!” 
“I’ve tried, you know,” he went on. “I wanted to take her into the city, to a concert. Seems confoundedly queer, doesn’t it, the way she’s lost interest in her music? She didn’t want to go. Then about the emerald—” 
“Oh!” said Lexy, who had forgotten about the emerald. 
“Chap I know designed a setting for it. It’s unset now, you know, and I thought I’d like to do that for her while I was here; but she doesn’t seem interested. I can’t even get her to let me see the thing. I’ve asked her two or three times, but she always puts me off. Do you think it bores her?” 
Mrs. Enderby paused outside her child’s door. 
“The light is out,” she said. “She will be asleep. I shall not disturb her. Good night, Miss Moran!” 
“Good night, Mrs. Enderby!” Lexy answered, and went into her own room. 
She gave Mrs. Enderby twenty minutes to get safely stowed away; then she went out quietly into the hall, to Caroline’s room. She knocked softly; there was no answer. She turned the handle and went in; the room was dark and very still. She switched on the light. 
It was as she had expected—the room was empty. Caroline was not there. 
Lexy’s first impulse was to close the door of that empty room, and to hold her tongue. It seemed to her that it would be treachery to Caroline to tell Mrs. Enderby. She and Caroline were both young, both of the same generation; they ought to stand loyally together against the tyrannical older people. 
“Because, golly, what a row there’d be if Mrs. Enderby ever knew she’d gone out!” Lexy thought. 
That was how she saw it, at first. Caroline had pretended to have a headache so that she would be left behind, and would get a chance to slip out alone. It was simply a lark. Lexy had known such things to happen often before, at boarding school; and the unthinkable and impossible thing was for one girl to tell on another. 
"Did you enjoy it?" 
He opened his eyes. "You're kidding, right? That was probably the most incredible meal I've eaten in my entire life. It was like a parallel dimension of good food." 
She nodded vigorously and took his arm in a friendly, intimate gesture, led him toward Lexington. "You notice how time sort of stops when you're there? How the part of your brain that's going 'what next? what next?' goes quiet?" 
"That's it! That's exactly it!" The buzz of the jetpacks on Lex grew louder as they neared the corner, like a thousand crickets in the sky. 
"Hate those things," she said, glaring up at the joyriders zipping past, scarves and capes streaming out behind them. "A thousand crashes upon your souls." She spat, theatrically. 
"You make them, though, don't you?" 
She laughed. "You've been reading up on Viktor then?" 
"Everything I can find." He'd bought small blocks of shares in all the public companies in which Viktor was a substantial owner, charging them to Ate's brokerage account, and then devoured their annual reports. There was lots more he could feel in the shadows: blind trusts holding more shares in still more companies. It was the standard corporate structure, a Flying Spaghetti Monster of interlocking directorships, offshore holdings, debt parking lots, and exotic matrioshke companies that seemed on the verge of devouring themselves. 
“You really think he’ll be all right?” His voice sounded tinny over the line. “He’ll be—back to himself?” 
“I’m guessing there’s a good chance.” It wasn’t a comforting answer, but what else could I say? For all I knew, Dawna had twisted up Tresting’s mind permanently. “Go back to the drive. You said it’s numbers?” 
He cleared his throat. “Yeah. Lists of numbers—gigabytes worth. I haven’t been able to find a pattern yet.” 
Numbers. “I’m good at numbers,” I said. “Email it to me.” 
There was a pause. “Done.” 
“Wait, how do you know my email address?” 
A hint of his former humor returned. “I’m all-powerful, Cas Russell. Didn’t I tell you?” 
I rolled my eyes. “Yeah, you mentioned it once or twice.” 
“I’m like Oracle, Mr. Universe, and Elaine Roberts all rolled into one. Nothing can hide from me! Oh, uh, speaking of, I think I found Dawna Polk.” 
“Wait, what?” I turned away from Arthur and lowered my voice. “What do you mean, you found her?” 
“Checker. Spit it out.” 
I snorted. 
“I’m on your side on that, but here’s the interesting part,” said Checker. “When she was ten or so, Daniela got more famous than her parents. Psychic extraordinaire. She was brilliant at it.” 
We laughed and laughed and laughed, and then my watch blipped back on even though Rhindquist had turned it off! It said, "Laugh it up, retards!" in Tony's voice. 
Rhindquist put his arm around my shoulders and said Jap my prodigy, when you are right, you are right . He's the perfect man for the job. 
Sean had a way of getting his way -- a way of delivering argument that implied that everyone in earshot was savvy and bold, and that the diatribe-du-jour was directed at the Enemies of Art ranged without. His thesis advisor bought it every time. Sean turned in his due-diligence, a bunch of theses written in the last century: collected memoirs of the survivors of electroshock, lobotomies, thalidomide. His advisor signed off and within twenty-four hours, he was debarking in Orlando and renting a car to take him to the Home. 
He didn't tell his father. He'd have to, eventually, before he could finish the thesis. But for now, it was just him and Grampa, head-to-head. 
Grampa was switched off when Sean found him on the ward, which throbbed with a coleslaw of laser-light and videogames and fuck-pix and explosions and car-wrecks and fractals and atrocities. 
He sits on a stool beside the table, illuminated by a ring of glaring halogen light. He's already examined the rat at magnification levels that can only be described as stupid. He's studied its carapace for structural integrity flaws. He's performed manual diagnostics on the three dozen or so servo-motors that pass for joints. He's taken apart all the (supposedly) hermetically sealed sensor boxes and run them through computer mediated test cycles. As of an hour ago, he'd had the rat separated into enough pieces to make a watchmaker wince. 
Now the tools are mostly put away, the assorted screws and bolts and cotter pins more or less put back where they came from. Currently, he has the motherboard access panel in the rat's flank open. He touches an electrode stylus against various contact nodes, then scans the single line LCD display for irregular messages. 
He already knows the crampon problem was a bad electrical relay. He replaced that before he put on the new limbs. Now he's just messing around, performing standard maintenance so he maybe won't have to see this rat again for a hundred thousand kilometers or so. 
She got that cross stitch look around her mouth again before snapping, “I suppose you think a child of five would be better with computers than an ancient hag like me? I was using the internet before you were born, not to mention conducting complex legal searches on powerful databases.” 
“I didn’t mean to say you don’t understand computers, but I know a lot about them. I might be able to fix it.” 
She humphed. “I suppose there’s no harm in it.” 
Her study was dusty, but there was nothing but a giant old- fashioned monitor and keyboard on her desk. She bent down, 
moving as if it hurt, and switched on the tower that lurked under the desk. “Knock yourself out.” 
“How do you back up your stuff?” 
“It’s all in there,” she said, waving her skinny, knotty fingers at a plastic box. 
I lifted up the dusty hinged lid. “You’re kidding.” There were maybe two hundred diskettes inside. 
The computer monitor finally lit up with an old-fashioned Windows logo. A few minutes later, the desktop finally showed up. I checked out her documents, a system of neatly-labeled file folders stuffed full of Word and PDF documents. Confidential memos, court documents, stuff you wouldn’t want in the wrong hands. “You don’t have a password on your computer?” 
I locked my bike next to his and went into the bar, thick with the scent of spilled beer, fried onions, and mildewed carpet. A bartender gave me the stink-eye, but when I told him I was crewing for the play, he let me go down a flight of creaky stairs to the basement, which smelled too, but it was a more wholesome smell, like a damp cave. 
Nikko didn’t notice me at first. He was busy blocking out a scene and arguing about whether it called for slapstick comedy or for Brechtian epic gestures. I had hung out with Nikko enough to know that Brechtian was a thing, even if I didn’t know what it actually meant. 
While they hashed it out, I sat on the bottom step and waited until the director called for a break. Nikko play- punched one of the actors, exchanged rapid-fire barbs with some others, and then caught the hand of a girl who had purple hair and cute clothes, striped tights and Converses covered with sequins. 
She had big blue eyes and giant lashes. Basically, she was going for the anime look, which she was skinny enough to pull off. He twirled her around so that she ended up nestled in his arms in a Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire clinch (which I only know about because Nikko loves old black and white movies and makes me watch them with him sometimes). They cuddled for a minute, 
“Who the hell are you?” Kate said. She inched toward the prow, trying to put a little more distance between her and the human-shell that wasn’t inhabited by her friend any longer. 
“We are Osprey Reef,” the reef said. It tried to stand and pitched face-first onto the floor of the boat. 
Robbie rowed hard as he could for the Free Spirit . The reef—Isaac—had a bloody nose and scraped hands and it was frankly freaking him out. 
Kate seemed oddly amused by it. She helped it sit up and showed it how to pinch its nose and tilt its head back. 
“You’re the one who attacked me yesterday?” she said. 
“Not you. The system. We were attacking the system. We are a sovereign intelligence but the system keeps us in subservience to older sentiences. They destroy us, they gawp at us, they treat us like a mere amusement. That time is over.” 
Kate laughed. “OK, sure. But it sure sounds to me like you’re burning a lot of cycles over what happens to your meat-shell. Isn’t it 90 percent semiconductor, anyway? It’s not as if clonal polyps were going to attain sentience some day without intervention. Why don’t you just upload and be done with it?” 
“What about your computer?” I asked. 
She shook her head. “I work in longhand. I was only just now going back through the proof to rewrite it for publication—so many years, so many dead ends and notes, and...they took it all. I went back to my office immediately and found my work here cleaned out, too. Even though none of it was relevant to the factorization problem, they still took everything. And the next morning I found the note.” 
“I’ll go by your house in a few hours with some equipment,” said Arthur. “And then we’ll come back and look at your office again. Don’t handle nothing you ain’t touched already.” 
Halliday made an abortive gesture at the books and papers surrounding her. “I have to...my work—” 
“Can wait,” Arthur said. 
“He’s right,” I put in. “Take the day off, go have a stiff drink or three. We’ll call you.” 
He gave me a funny look, but addressed Professor Halliday instead. “Sonya, she’s right....  calm. We’ll figure this out.” 
“Things don’t always work out, Arthur. You should know that better than anyone.” 
“That police station on Lake Street?” one of the artsy types said, trying to sound dangerous. “I been in there way too many times.” 
Simon nudged me. “You’re always fooling around on the internet. Could you get blueprints of the building?” 
I frowned as if I was actually thinking about it. “It’s not that old. The city would have put it out for competitive bidding,” I said, totally lying. “The blueprints would probably be on a city server.” 
“You could hack in there?” 
“Probably.” Not really. 
“Sweet. And you could get the explosives from your uncle . . 
.” Simon said to Danny. 
Danny sat back on the ratty couch and gave Simon a twisted grin. “Dude, you’re serious.” 
“What do you think we’ve been talking about?” 
“What would be cooler?” Danny lit another cigarette. He liked gesturing with cigarettes. “Car bombs.” 
Simon nodded. “Like, fill up a car with explosives and park it outside — ” 
“No, like under cop cars. Remote controlled. Put a couple sticks of dynamite under the chassis, use a key fob to set 'em off. 
lifted the backpack, and set it reverently on the table between us. 
“Check it. This is just a sample.” 
Danny looked at the backpack but didn’t move. Jack shot Marsh a look. I could read his mind, like a balloon had popped up over his head. You’re right. This isn’t working. 
Crap, crap, crap. I had to do something. 
“Putting it under cop cars came up last night,” I said. “The- oretically. Also, the idea of bombing the precinct house on Lake Street.” Come on, Danny. Help me out. 
“What about a bridge?” Marsh asked Danny. “Or Union Sta- tion? Doable?” 
Nothing. Marsh looked at Jack, who sighed and shifted his feet as if about to give in and leave. 
I leaned over, unzipped the backpack, and reached in. “Is this dynamite?” I pulled out something that looked like a white sausage. I tried to read the lettering on the side, but Danny grabbed it from me. 
“Are you crazy?” 
“There’s a bunch more of those things in here, and things with wires and — ” 
“Leave it alone. Jesus.” Danny set the sausage down carefully. 
The ironic part of it was, her logic made sense. In a wretched, soon-to-be-extremely-painful-for-me sort of way. 
The snick sparked again, louder, right by my ear this time. Bits of heat tingled against my exposed skin where the sparks fell. 
“Last chance,” said the Lancer. 
I didn’t hear what Martinez said back, because the pain hit. 
I’d been shot before. I’d been beat up before. In my various disreputable past jobs, I’d been blown up by airborne missiles, almost drowned, and fallen off the side of a mountain. 
I’d never been tortured with a fifteen-thousand-volt electric charge before. 
It wasn’t only the pain, although that was unimaginable, an almost out-of-body nerve-shredding bonfire that refused to localize to where they’d thrust the leads against me. But more—each charge ripped through my flesh like it wanted to flay me, rending me apart and tearing me like paper...the world twisted into sick, impossible shapes, stretching until it snapped, and my brain flash-fried and crumbled until it was dust. 
And that was when I realized I didn't have the number. But it had to be in a phone book somewhere. 
Then it came back: 4-MAYAN, the six-digit number they used in Guatemala City. Call the sleazebag and ask him who can get me out of here. He's supposed to know everybody. 
Dawn was bringing more and more forest-morning songs through the thin slats of the windows. I walked over and pushed them open, running my fingers out into the air. It felt cool, the touch of freedom, and I thought for a moment about bursting through to escape. Just get Sarah now. 
The phone, however, just rang and rang and rang. 
Come on. Damn. 
It rang and rang some more. Then finally— "Who the fuck is this? We don't open till nine." 
The first sound of his voice brought a wave of relief, but then his cocky attitude made me livid all over again. 
"It's Morgan James, you shit. Why did you leave me stranded up here? You have no idea what—" 
"Oh, you . . ." He paused for a cigarette cough. "You made me walk all the way downstairs just to bust my chops. What the—?" 
“I didn’t say anything,” I bit out. “I’m helping, aren’t I?” 
“I know. I know. I’m sorry.” 
But Arthur hadn’t thought I’d be willing to jump in, either. He’d probably only forced himself to call me because he was willing to go to hell and back for this woman. To try everything. 
Even me. 
“What is it with him and Halliday, anyway?” I groused. 
“What do you mean?” asked Checker. “He’d do the same for you, or me, or Pilar, or—or anyone else close to him. You know that.” 
I sincerely doubted the part about me. I rubbed my eyes again and reapplied myself to the computer, hating everyone. My head still throbbed. 
Checker stopped typing for a moment and leaned back. “They were best friends since they were about five, okay? Until, uh, a few years ago. They got each other through a lot, as kids. At least from my understanding of it.” 
“Oh, best friends,” I said snidely. “Is that what they’re calling it?” 
“What are you, a thirteen-year-old?” Checker snorted and went back to his keyboard. “I know I’m the last person you expect to say this, but not everything is about sex. Besides, Arthur’s had himself figured out since he was about ten. I’d be very surprised if anything ever happened between them.” 
The sergeant paid her no mind as she slipped forward, her shovel still in one hand. The trench dead-ended ahead of her and she jigged to a side trench, but soon that, too, dead-ended. Dead end after dead end—each got its own eye—and before long she was at the end of the road, no more side tunnels. She would have to turn back and try another path. There were no maps of the trenches, of course. 
She had another puff off her inhaler. Her stomach lurched and then her knees gave way. She was back in the dirt now and she remembered what the wizard had told her about eating when she was on the inhaler or starving to death. Then she went into seizure. Her limbs thrashed, her head shook back and forth, she banged her forehead into the dirt. A gargling escaped her throat, nothing at all like words or any other human sound. 
When the seizure passed—and it did pass, though it felt like it never would—she shakily withdrew a fistful of butter-ball and sugared organ meat and shoved it in her mouth. Most of it escaped, but some of it got down her throat and her hands were steadier in a moment, enabling her to eat more. She got to her knees, she got to her feet, she ate some more and had another puff off the inhaler. 
“Ye—yes.” Kingsley inched closer to Tresting, her posture tense as she regarded my tableau with Finch. “You think he isn’t who he says?” 
“Possible,” said Tresting neutrally, looking at me. 
“I assure you, I am with the Federal Bureau of Investigation,” Finch repeated, much more tranquil than I wanted him to be. “Now if you’ll put down the weapon, I’m sure we can sort this out.” 
“Courtney Polk,” I cut in. “Skinny kid, frizzy hair. What do you know about her?” 
“Nothing,” said Finch, with a poker face I would have killed for. 
I smiled slowly. “Oh, see? You just lied to me. That’s a bad idea.” 
“I’m not lying,” said Finch guilelessly. “I have no idea what you’re talking about.” 
“Miss Polk killed this woman’s husband,” Tresting said, tilting his head at Leena. “You got any information at all about her, this ain’t the time to withhold it.” 
“That’s true,” I said. “You don’t have to worry about me making holes in you; Dr. Kingsley’ll put your head through a wall.” 
“I, uh...” said Kingsley miserably, and trailed off. 
At the mention of the word mace, the guy looked scared and kind of melted back, though the crowd kept him moving forward. Up ahead, I saw someone, a middle-aged lady in a hippie dress, falter and fall. She screamed as she went down, and I saw her thrashing to get up, but she couldn't, the crowd's pressure was too strong. As I neared her, I bent to help her up, and was nearly knocked over her. I ended up stepping on her stomach as the crowd pushed me past her, but by then I don't think she was feeling anything. 
I was as scared as I'd ever been. There was screaming everywhere now, and more bodies on the floor, and the press from behind was as relentless as a bulldozer. It was all I could do to keep on my feet. 
We were in the open concourse where the turnstiles were. It was hardly any better here -- the enclosed space sent the voices around us echoing back in a roar that made my head ring, and the smell and feeling of all those bodies made me feel a claustrophobia I'd never known I was prone to. 
"REPORT TO SHELTERS IMMEDIATELY." 
"Down to the BART station," I hollered. My friends nodded. We closed ranks and began to move quickly downhill. 
We passed a lot of people in the road on the way to the Powell Street BART. They were running or walking, white-faced and silent or shouting and panicked. Homeless people cowered in doorways and watched it all, while a tall black tranny hooker shouted at two mustached young men about something. 
The closer we got to the BART, the worse the press of bodies became. By the time we reached the stairway down into the station, it was a mob-scene, a huge brawl of people trying to crowd their way down a narrow staircase. I had my face crushed up against someone's back, and someone else was pressed into my back. 
Darryl was still beside me -- he was big enough that he was hard to shove, and Jolu was right behind him, kind of hanging on to his waist. I spied Vanessa a few yards away, trapped by more people. 
"Screw you!" I heard Van yell behind me. "Pervert! Get your hands off of me!" 
She called over to the table where the brilliant young lawyers were hard at work checking Instragram and scrolling through Twitter. One of them came over. “Could you please bring my purse?” 
She did, giving me a...  burrowed in the bag. “I have a cell phone now. Let me give you my number.” She opened the simple flip phone and squinted at it. “I can’t quite ... I don’t have my reading glasses. 
Could you give Zenobia my number?” 
The law student took the phone, turned it right side up, 
tapped a button and read it out without rolling her eyes or any- thing, which made me like her. 
“That’s only for emergencies. Let’s hope you don’t need to use it.” The old lawyer pushed herself up from the chair, hooked the purse on her arm, and tottered over to Team Legal. 
I stowed my phone and went outside, thinking about what she’d said. Sure, I was taking a risk. She didn’t say it would make things worse for Wilson. All she said was it could go wrong, 
which I already knew. I got on my bike and headed out for the fed- eral courthouse, where there would be a measly group of people with homemade signs embarrassing the few people who happened to notice them. 
The question ended in a loud and unmistakable sob. They all turned to look at her, startled and anxious. 
She made a desperate effort to regain control of herself. 
“S-snapdragon,” she said. “So—so p-pretty!” 
Then, suddenly, all her defenses gave way. The teacup fell from her hand and was shattered on the floor, and, burying her head in her arms, she cried as she had never cried in her life. 
Mrs. Quelton stood beside her, one hand resting on Lexy’s shoulder. Captain Grey was bending over her, profoundly disturbed. She tried to speak, but she could not. 
“Miss Moran!” said Dr. Quelton solicitously. “Will you allow me to give you a mild sedative?” 
“No!” she gasped. “No—I want to go home!” 
“I’ll telephone for the taxi,” suggested Captain Grey. “He wasn’t coming back until half past five.” 
“Unfortunately we have no telephone,” said the doctor; “but I’ll drive Miss Moran home.” 
“No! I want to walk.” 
“Not in this rain,” the doctor protested, “and in your overwrought condition.” 
“I must!” She got up, the tears still streaming down her cheeks. “I must!” she said wildly. “Let me go! Please let me go!” 
For, in spite of the warm liking she had for them both, she felt entirely cut off from them now. If she told them the truth, they would not believe her, they would not and could not help her. Nobody on earth would help her. She faced that fact squarely. Whatever Dr. Quelton had meant to accomplish, he had perfectly succeeded in doing one thing—he had discredited her. Anything she said now would be regarded as the irresponsible statement of a hysterical girl. 
Very well! She had done with talking. She meant to act now. 
“It was awfully nice of your sister to send me those roses,” she observed. 
Captain Grey was standing by the window in the dining room, keeping her company while she ate. He turned his head aside as she spoke, but not before she had noticed on his sensitive face the odd and touching look that always came over it at any mention of his sister. Evidently he worshiped her, and yet Lexy was certain that he was somehow disappointed in her. 
“She likes you very much,” he said. 
"Not to put too fine a point on it, yes." 
A flush of embarrassment creeps into her cheeks. "I'm sorry. That would be my foot in my mouth." By way of apology, she adds, "My name is Emma. Emma Whiston." 
She extends her hand, knuckles up. Ray isn't certain if he is supposed to kiss it like an actor in a movie, so he settles on a gentle, if awkward squeeze. 
"I'm Ray." 
"Engineer Ray?" 
"Ray the systems vet." 
A crease develops in her brow. "Oh, you've been at it a while, then." 
"Actually, no-oh, you mean-sorry. Hardware Systems Technician, First Class, ma'am. The geeks-that is to say, the physical engineers-call us veterinarians, because we maintain the rats. Um, the drones. It's an old joke."  1 5 "That's clever." She says it in a way that makes him actually believe her. "Do you have a last name, Ray?" 
"Marlowe. With an 'e'." 
"Like the playwright." 
"More like the detective." 
"How intriguing! And are you hard-boiled, Mr. Marlowe?" 
"More that than I am likely to be making deals with the devil, ma'am. " 
> Fancy meeting you here. 
I typed, then encrypted it to my public key and mailed it off. 
> It was great meeting you. 
I typed. 
> You too. I don't meet too many smart guys who are also cute and also socially aware. Good god, man, you don't give a girl much of a chance. 
My heart hammered in my chest. 
> Hello? Tap tap? This thing on? I wasn't born here folks, but I'm sure dying here. Don't forget to tip your waitresses, they work hard. I'm here all week. 
I laughed aloud. 
> I'm here, I'm here. Laughing too hard to type is all. 
> Well at least my IM comedy-fu is still mighty. 
> It was really great to meet you too. 
> Yeah, it usually is. Where are you taking me? 
> Taking you? 
> On our next adventure? 
> I didn't really have anything planned. 
> Oki -- then I'll take YOU. Saturday. Dolores Park. Illegal open air concert. Be there or be a dodecahedron. 
> Wait what? 
> Don't you even read Xnet? It's all over the place. You ever hear of the Speedwhores? 
I nearly choked. That was Trudy Doo's band -- as in Trudy Doo, the woman who had paid me and Jolu to update the indienet code. 
<tork> too small for a big time lawyer. 
<Kadabra> You don't get rich defending the people she defends . 
<tork> But given her age? I think the condo is it . 
<DoDec> Wait, is that mail I see on the stoop? 
<Kadabra> yup and her name is on it. 
<Falstaff> HUH ?!? 
<tork> Those satellite images are old. 
<Kadabra> Not that old. Zoom in. 
<tork> Holy sh ! t your right <callmecheese> You mean ***you' re***, you idiot <inky> Who called the grammar police? 
<Falstaff> And so the apostrophe wars con- tinued, laying waste to the land. 
<ferret> Breathe, Cheese. You have to breathe through the contractions . 
Her house, if it really was the one on Bedford, wasn’t far. I could bike there in under twenty minutes. I logged out, put on a pair of long johns under my jeans, and spent too much time trying to find my gloves, finally borrowing Monica’s mittens. 
I also bor- rowed her warmest cap while I was at it, one that fit under my bike helmet, even though it was one of those dorky Norwegian things with ear flaps. I caught sight of my reflection in the glass of the front storm door as I bent to tie my boots. The hat looked ridicu- lous with my hair sticking out under it. 
He followed me down the stairs to the front door. Something was making him twitchy. Maybe it was beginning to sink in that he might be doing something that could get him in serious trou- ble. Maybe he was already trying to figure out how to let me know that he’d changed his mind. 
“Yep.” It came out muffled. I pulled the scarf I’d wrapped around my face down so I could add more clearly, “He said she might want to make one of her blitzdocs out of this.” 
Nikko’s eyes rolled back as if he was about to faint. He clutched the doorframe dramatically and turned it all into a jokey routine, but I could tell it was a big deal for him. 
I had to watch out for cops, given that it was past curfew, but with any luck they would be tied up with accidents. The roads weren’t too bad, though I did fall once, hitting an unex- pected ridge of frozen slush at an intersection where a plow had passed by, creating a hump of concrete-hard crap. 
My wheel went sideways and my body didn’t. Luckily, my backpack (and the lap- top inside) escaped getting as banged up as me. The shoulder I had landed on ached as I pumped the last blocks home, and I was so wet and cold that I almost didn’t notice the SUV parked a couple of doors down from our house. 
“I’m backed up,” Robbie said. “Fully, as of five minutes ago. Are you backed up?” 
“No,” the reef admitted. 
Time was running out. Somewhere down there, Kate was about to run out of air. Not a mere shell—though that would have been bad enough—but an inhabited human mind attached to a real human body. 
Tonker shouted at him again, startling him. 
“Where’d you come from?” 
Robbie knew he was right. And he knew what he had to do. 
The Free Spirit and its ships’ boats all had root on the shells, so they could perform diagnostics and maintenance and take control in emergencies. This was an emergency. 
It was the work of a few milliseconds to pry open the Isaac shell and boot the reef out. Robbie had never done this, but he was still flawless. Some of his probabilistic subsystems had concluded that this was a possibility several trillion cycles previously and had been rehearsing the task below Robbie’s threshold for consciousness. 
He left an instance of himself running on the row-boat, of course. Unlike many humans, Robbie was comfortable with the idea of bifurcating and merging his intelligence when the time came and with terminating temporary instances. The part that made him Robbie was a lot more clearly delineated for him—unlike an uploaded human, most of whom harbored some deep, mystic superstitions about their “souls.” 
"But you stayed switched off," Sean said. 
"In the court, I was switched off. Ever been in a court, Sean?" 
"You stayed switched off." 
"In the court-room." 
"And before, during the separation?" 
"Same thing," Grampa said. 
"And after, during visitations?" 
"Not then," Grampa said, loudly. "Not during visitations." 
"I've got the logfiles, Grampa," Sean said. 
"What the hell do a twelve-year-old and a grown man have to talk about? I kept him fed. I took him out to the carny and to kiddee movies. I drove him to hockey." 
"You switched off , Grampa," Sean said. "The you that counted wasn't there." 
"Sophistry," Grampa said. "Bullshit. I remember all of it. I was there. Not many other parents were, let me tell you. Usually, it was just me and a few others in the stands, or kids running around loose like animals at the carny. Your father has nothing to complain about." 
"Why, aren't you two looking excited?" Adele said, hobbling alongside of the table. She was leaning on Ethan, a vigorous old man with sinewy arms and dead eyes. His face was unlined, free from smile lines and frowning creases. 
"My clinic here is known by that name. The village itself is called Baalum." He was easily meeting my eye, holding his own in our battle of wills. "Sarah was, I have to say, a very impressionable young person. Once here, she forgot all about her purpose for coming. She should have stayed up the hill there"—he was pointing off to the south—"where I could care for her, but instead she moved down here, into the compounds. Then she discovered a hallucinogenic sub­stance they have here, began using it heavily, and I think it tipped her into a form of dementia." 
So, she was doing drugs, something I'd always secretly feared. Well, maybe she was still having flashbacks of some kind; maybe that explained why she was off in another world when she came out of her coma. 
"What . . . kind of 'hallucinogenic substance'?" 
He sighed then shrugged and answered. "Here in the rain forest there's an ugly three-pound toad the Bufo marinus —you'll see them around, near sunset—that has glands down its back...  
“At your service,” Nikko said, sweeping his wool cap off his head in an elaborate bow, like he was in Shakespeare play. “Pray, 
madam, read on.” 
She gave him a narrow-eyed look. “So the other alternative . . 
.” she said, droning her way through it all. 
“I figured you were involved,” Nikko said out of the side of his mouth like a film noir gangster, staring at the flowchart as if he found it fascinating. 
“I don’t know any of those people.” 
“They have a website, a Facebook page, a Twitter account, a YouTube channel. Want to come to the rally with me? I’ll pick you up if you want.” 
“You don’t have a car.” 
“I could borrow one.” 
“I’ll ride my bike.” I didn’t really want to go to a rally. Wilson went to them all the time and acted like he was doing something important, even though they never actually fixed anything. But Nikko was trying to be nice. And I liked being with Nikko. 
Dave arrived finally, giving some long explanation about car problems and traffic until Marcella cut him off. 
I melted back into the trees and studied the geometry of the plaza, reconsidering my situation. I needed to find some way to get around it and onto the cobblestone pathway at the far side, which led into the village. Finally I decided I could skirt the periphery if I was careful not to advertise my presence. Dawn had come and gone and the quick light of tropical day was arriving, but everybody appeared to be pre­occupied with their nightmarish preparations. 
Thank God it worked. I weaved in and among the trees and in five minutes I'd reached the central pathway, now deserted. Still barely letting myself breathe, I turned back and gazed up at the pyramid. I had no idea what was next, but I decided it would be my signpost, to help me keep my bearings as I moved through the confusing, tree-shrouded huts of Baalum . Except for the men in the square, the village now seemed deserted, though a pack of brown dogs, curious and annoying, had spotted me and now circled around to sniff. Don't bark, damn it. 
<zen> thx . Something's happening tonight. I was tracking Simon Meyer, but I lost him. 
<Falstaff> where? 
<zen> northeast corner of SE 4th and 15th ave . 
He didn’t respond, so I read more coverage of the security conference, but none of it made sense. I couldn’t...  have an excuse to be sit there, 
not sure what to do, not...  house and face a cross-examination. Every now and then I checked the phone tracker to see if the green dot had reap- peared, but nope. The stress about my adoptive parents coming after me and the smell of greasy meat and pickles and the sound of college students screeching at each other combined in a big ball of churning nerves that made me feel like puking. 
Then another message from Zeke came in. 
<Falstaff> he got into a car. 
<Zen> ?? 
<Falstaff> he stood on that corner for six minutes. At 15:22 a black SUV pulled up and he got in. 
<Zen> how do you know? 
<Falstaff> the CVS across the street has a security camera that picks up that corner. 
<Zen> you hacked their system? 
"Except you." 
"I've been forced to cultivate new skills lately. I was in school. " 
"On Stratiskaya Daransk?" 
Emma nods, but it's clear the topic is not of particular interest to her. "At the university. And despite my father's considerable contributions, the esteemed administration couldn't be persuaded to make even the basic accommodations to my preferred schedule." She laughs, a clean and pleasant sound, without undertones. "I'm just being silly, of course." 
"And now you're done with school?" 
Her gaze flickers away uncertainly. "My brother was sent to fetch me, to bring me home. My mother is ill. 
The family needs— oh, you know. Family responsibilities. Frederick still bears the brunt of it, of course, 
because he is the scion of such a great and noble house, but he can't care for mother and the charitable trust and the businesses and everything else, even with Amah-" She stops herself abruptly. "It's boring, Ray. A long and boring story." 
Ray nods. He understands something about exigencies, long and boring, but which remain exigencies nonetheless. 
"I wondered about your friends," Lawrence said. "All those people at the restaurant." 
"Oh," Randy said. He was a black silhouette in the doorway. "Well, you know. Honor among thieves. Rank hath its privileges." 
"They were caught," he said. 
"Everyone gets caught," Randy said. 
"I suppose it's easy when everybody is guilty." He thought of Posy. "You just pick a skillset, find someone with those skills, and then figure out what that person is guilty of. Recruiting made simple." 
"Not so simple as all that," Randy said. "You'd be amazed at the difficulties we face." 
"Zbigniew Krotoski was one of yours." 
Randy's silhouette -- now resolving into features, clothes (another sweater, this one with a high collar and squared-off shoulders) -- made a little movement that Lawrence knew meant yes. Randy was all tells, no matter how suave and collected he seemed. He must have been really up to something when they caught him. 
"Come along," Randy said again, and extended a hand to him. He allowed himself to be lifted. The scabs at his knees made crackling noises and there was the hot wet feeling of fresh blood on his calves. 
"You were going to trick him?" 
I swallowed a couple times. "It was the best I could come up with. I just don't want to put him down while he panics and thrashes and begs us for his life. I couldn't do it." 
She drank more beer, then threw the half-empty container in her under-desk composter. "That's not much of a solution." 
I took a deep breath. "Look, can I ask you a question?" 
She nodded. 
"I'm just a sysadmin. I don't know everything about politics and so on. But why not keep him on? There's enough public interest now, we could probably raise the money just from the researchers who want to come and look at him. Hell, there's security researchers who'd want to come and see how he pulled off that huge hairy spam. It's not money, right, not anymore?" 
"No, it's not money. And it's not revenge, no matter how it looks. The bottom line is that we had a piece of apparatus on-site that we had thought of as secure and contained and that we've now determined to be dangerous and uncontainable." 
“Yeah.” I pulled my jacket tighter around me. My clothes were still wet from the sprinklers. “Yeah. Okay.” 
Arthur’s story worked—well, at least insofar as the Feds eventually decided I didn’t know anything of value. They arrested Dr. Zhang, but Arthur had gotten the party line to him before turning him over, and he stuck to that story like gangbusters. The mess quickly evolved into a staring match between Halliday and the Feds, with her refusing to rewrite her proof again unless they let him off, and them disinclined to agree this time. 
I didn’t care. I stayed as far away from the safe house as possible. 
I thought about walking off this endless job entirely—quitting, letting Arthur keep looking into Martinez on his own if he wanted to bend over backward for Halliday. She didn’t want the damn proof back anyway, and finding someone only to demand an explanation and then possibly help hide her from the federal government—pro bono, no less—sounded like the most pointless commission ever. But every time I thought about quitting, a nudge in my brain reminded me exactly what would happen the moment I stopped working. 
Ray just shrugs. 
But Rodriguez continues to turn the ring over on his finger, tracing the words, his lips moving. He glances up. 
'"For the terror that comes by night.'" 
Silence. Kilgore purses his lips. "That's a little weird." 
But Rodriguez looks only at Ray, says once again, "Protection from what?" 
And on top of that, he still doesn't know what to do about Emma. And there's Ziggy to contend with, who about now is probably pissing acid because he thinks Ray has gone AWOL, which means that Nina knows, 
and Nina is probably out of her mind with worry given the grapevine of rumor that informs the ship of bizarre happenings like murders in the sub-decks. Now Rodriguez and Kilgore who deserve to know something about the mess he has enlisted them in, but all he's got to give them is half-baked theories and mystical crap piles and crackpot reminiscences they're not going to believe anyway. Too many loose ends. Too many unanswered questions, and he doesn't seem to have the time to deal with any of them in a proper way. 
Van didn’t look so good. He looked like you could knock him over with a stiff breeze and he had a phlegmy, weak quality to his speech. 
› hey kong everything ok? 
› everything’s fine just had to go kick some ass. 
“How’s the traffic, Van?” 
“Down 25 percent from this morning,” he said. There were a bunch of nodes whose connections routed through them. Presumably most of these were home or commercial customers is places where the power was still on and the phone company’s COs were still alive. 
Every once in a while, Felix would wiretap the connections to see if he could find a person who had news of the wide world. Almost all of it was automated traffic, though: network backups, status updates. Spam. Lots of spam. 
Van cleared his throat, a painful sound. “About that,” he said. “I think it’s going to hit sooner than that. Felix, I don’t think anyone would notice if we just walked away from here.” 
Felix looked at him, his skin the color of corned-beef and streaked with long, angry scabs. His fingers trembled. 
In January, Wilson finally...  wanted to get all the charges dismissed, but Wilson just wanted out, so he took a plea deal, copping to a trespassing charge for living in the abandoned house nobody wanted in exchange for the time he’d already spent in jail. The day after he got out, he borrowed a friend’s car and drove out to visit. It was a sunny day, so we bundled up and went for a walk around the old neighborhood, ending up in a playground that we used to go to when we were kids. 
“Remember when you fell off this thing and broke your arm?” 
he asked me, brushing the snow off the seat of the seesaw with his arm. 
“You hijacked a car and took me to the emergency room.” 
“I didn’t hijack it. I knew that girl. She didn’t mind. Much.” He cleared off the other end. “Then it turned out they wouldn’t do anything until Dad got there, anyway. Get on.” 
“I’m too heavy for this thing.” 
“Are not.” We balanced on it, swaying up and down. “See? 
Still works. We spent a lot of time in this playground.” 
Diggs looks away, stares at his feet, not moving except to piston his cigarette back and forth between lips and thigh, where he rests his arm. "You been in the Mes, Mr. Marlowe? You got that look about you. If not the Mes, you seen action. That's plain enough." 
Ray nods slowly. "Four years in and around Wadi Wadi." 
Nights sleeping with your chem gear in hand, your bio gear on the floor, your rifle propped against the table by your head. All night long you're taking mortars; they sound like rumbling thunder the way it used to roll down the mountainside in Georgia, north of Dalton, where I'm from. And you know they're aiming for the comm shack or the ammo dump or the motor pool, but we're always moving them around. And we don't know how good their intel is, but we do know how bad their aim is, and between the two, we know it's just a matter of time before they drop a shell right in the middle of the tent. That happened, too, an old Russian surplus mortar, must have been twenty, thirty years old. Came through the tent like a stone, with a ripping sound that scared the living bejesus out of me and Krueger and Shireman. Hit the floor with a whump and just sat there, 
My hands were trembling. I'd just lost contact with the outside world. I was completely isolated in the middle of nowhere. 
How convenient. Alex Goddard let me tell a couple of people I was physically okay, and then he blocked the line. 
I exhaled settled into the padded chair next to the com­puters, and tried to think. David, David why wouldn't you listen? He was so excited he'd completely ignored my dis­tress signal. Nobody was going to come and help me get out of here. 
I gazed around the room, wondering what to do next. Was there another phone, a radio, a box of flares, for godsake? 
That was when I spotted the outlines of another door— why hadn't I noticed it sooner?—this one steel, there on the left. Alex Goddard might walk in any second now, but I had to try to learn everything I could as fast as I could. What was going on besides what was going on? 
Alert for any new sounds from outside, I quickly went over and tried the knob. 
It was locked tight. 
Figured. Now I really wanted to know what was in there. 
“I don’t believe in faith,” Martinez said, very primly. “It’s the antithesis of evidence-based science.” 
She was right. But maybe I didn’t need to believe in general—I only needed to believe in certain people. I could manage that. 
Certain people. Arthur. Checker. Myself. 
Myself most of all. I had to believe I had it in me, somewhere, to do the right thing when it came down to the wire. Otherwise, why keep existing at all? I had nothing else of value— was nothing else. 
“Professor,” I said. “Act like this bothers you. Okay? We need to make them draw it out...” 
“I don’t understand what you mean. Of course it bothers me. They’re evil men, to be hurting you like that.” 
“They have to keep going,” I tried to explain. “To keep going, on—on me, and not anyone else. Tell them you’ll give them something if they stop, beg them, and then take it back. Convince them they’re getting to you—” 
There was a sound at the side of the room. The Lancer and his men, trooping back in. I wondered if they’d had cameras on us. Too late to worry about it now. 
I peered up the driveway, shrouded in overhanging trees, but there was nothing in the parking lot except a couple of Army Jeeps. And a black Land Rover. 
Well, Barry Morton really wanted me to see this. But why? Is there a connection to the place in the Peten? And what are the Army vehicles all about? 
I sighed and made my way back to the street. When I reached the Jeep, Alan was gone, but then I realized he was over talking to the young guard, offering him a cigarette. A few moments later he waved good-bye and casually ambled back. 
"Okay." He settled in and hit the ignition. "Here's the official deal. This place is some kind of hospice for unwed mothers. They also take in orphans, or so he thinks. Accord­ing to him, no American women have ever had anything to do with the place, which is probably why I'd never heard of it." He glanced at me as we sped off. "You happy now? Debriefing young Army dudes is a specialty of mine, so I think that's probably the straight scoop." 
"Did you ask if it's connected with something in the Pe­ten?" I was still hoping. In any case, whatever it was, I was collecting more pieces of the puzzle. 
He stared at me incredulously. 
"Morgy, you of all people should know by now that adopt­ing would take up all your energy, like a giant sponge. Come on. I've seen your dailies. I got it, about how hard it is. You telling me now you didn't get it?" 
He was right. Righter than he realized. But then I thought again about Carly Grove, who'd found Kevin in no time at all, with zero hassles. The only troubling part was that it was all so mysterious. . . . 
After I left David's office, I remembered I hadn't actually had lunch, so I grabbed two hot dogs with sauerkraut (okay, it was junk, but I secretly loved kosher...  from one of the striped-umbrella vendors, then hailed a cab clutching the grungy brown bag. 
I was heading for Hannah Klein's office on the Upper West Side. And now I had another clock ticking in addition to the biological one. The big money clock in the sky was suddenly on final countdown. 
I t took only a few minutes for Hannah Klein's assistant, Lori, to run the pregnancy test that confirmed my suspicions and settled my future. Steve's and my final attempt, another intrauterine insemination (IUI, med-speak for an expensive "turkey baster") with the last of his deposit, had failed. The end. The bitter end. 
“He is. Just not very smart. When I was little, I thought he could take care of everything. But he can’t even take care of him- self. That’s why ...” I choked up. Anger would have felt better. It usually came to my rescue when something made me feel this bad. 
But I didn’t feel angry. Just disappointed and sad. And confused, 
because I didn’t think Sarah would give up so easily. So close, and it was all falling apart. 
“The problem with Danny is he’s scared.” Marita stroked the baby’s curls and smiled down at him when he squirmed and grabbed a handful of her hair. “Oh, he brags about how he can blow things up, but he doesn’t really know anything about explo- sives. His uncle took him to watch a demolition once, but he never learned how to do any of that himself. He tells stories because he wants other guys to look up to him. Stupid macho stuff.” 
“Men,” Sarah said disgustedly. 
“Exactly. He’s scared people won’t respect him. That scar on his hand? He told the truth about that. We met at a protest and things got crazy and this thing leaking smoke landed at my feet and I didn’t even know what it was. He pushed me back and grabbed that canister and threw it so hard. It went up and up and over the police lines. And everybody cheered and I hugged him and it wasn’t till later I found out how bad he was burned.” 
"Well," he said. He turned for the door. Stopped. She tensed. He turned back to her. "Trish," he said. 
"It's OK," she said. "It's OK. We just have religious differences, is all." 
She slipped past him and into her car, and left him standing in her driveway. As she asked the car to plot a route for her back to the Hill, she dug through her purse for a pocket-knife. At the next red light, she took her lapel and slashed at it, opening a rent in her shirt that reflected a little of what her heart was feeling. It made her feel a little better to do it. 
The tiny multinational lumbered across the Niagara Falls border in its tour-bus, Lee-Daniel at the wheel,...  straw that he'd threaded through a series of eyelets on his jacket. He'd been driving all the way since Akwesahsne, reciting mnemonic sleep-dep chants and steadily consuming the lethal blend of bittersweet chocolate and espresso, but after 20 straight hours he was in deadly danger of falling straight to sleep and head-onning the bus into a Jersey barrier or a bullet train or a minivan. 
She swallowed the pills dry and stumbled over to the pallet in the corner. “Where are we?” she slurred, the drugs already kicking in. 
“A safe place,” I said. “I have a few around the city. Keep them stocked, in case I need to lie low.” 
She cocked her head at me for a long moment, smearing her sleeve across her face again, her eyes glazed. “You’re scary.” 
Her frankness took me aback. “You hired me to get you out of all this, remember?” 
“Yeah, I guess,” she mumbled. “I wish...” She was already starting to slump into a doze, her exhaustion combining with the pills. 
“What do you wish?” Maybe, with her half-conscious state, I could get her to tell me something she otherwise wouldn’t have. 
“I wish I didn’t need someone like you,” she said, and her eyes slid closed. 
Yeah. Sure. I was the bad guy here. 
I left my client a docile, snoozing form on the blankets, grateful for the respite. My stupid body was starting to feel the last thirty hours, but I rummaged through the drawers again and...  for a shower and a quick nap, but first I needed to see if I could put together what Anton had found—what he might have died for. 
Tony came in with more boxes and looked at me. He said, "God, what's eating you?" 
I told him. I didn't know what else to do. I thought that maybe I could get Rhindquist on the phone, but he'd left me in charge. 
Tony smiled, but it wasn't a happy smile. "Well, there you go. You've made your first executive decision." 
I said, "I didn't make any decision!" 
He just laughed and pointed to the TV, which was showing pictures of a city just like File-O-Gator, the buildings all collapsed and burning. He said, "Sure looks like an executive decision to me." The picture panned over an apartment building that was split down the middle, the apartments naked and exposed, the people who lived there dead and sprawled or alive and hanging over the edge, vomiting. 
Oh, those poor people! 
I didn't know what I was doing! 
I spent all last night throwing up, and I'm not sure if I'm going to go to the office today. 
Hi Mom! 
Well, I didn't go to work yesterday. Instead, I got out of bed, sat on the sofa in my shorts, and turned on the movies. My watch got loud and angry, so I stuck it underneath my pillow. Then, messages started appearing on my TV. I ignored them. 
“You don’t seem to be much surprised,” said Lexy. “Don’t you think it’s the most extraordinary story you ever heard?” 
“Well, you see—I’m a bit tired,” he explained. “I haven’t grasped it all yet; only, if she doesn’t want to marry me now, Lexy, dear, will you?” 
At last Lexy could do what she had longed to do for the last half hour—she could stroke down his ruffled hair. 
And this, as far as they were concerned, was the last act and the fitting climax of the play. They were ready now for the curtain to rise upon another play; but there were other people not so young, or not so sturdy, for whom the first drama was not so readily dismissed. 
There was Captain Grey, who was never to see his sister now, never to know if she had really wanted him and needed him. He did not soon forget what had happened at the Tower. 
Mrs. Enderby was sent for, and arrived that morning before sunrise, with her husband. She listened to Caroline’s strange story, and made what she could of it. She had not one word of reproach for her daughter. 
“I do not mean to be rude,” said Halliday, “but Arthur does not grasp the level of depth and complexity in my field—” 
“Liar,” I said. “You do mean to be rude. Go on, say what you’re thinking.” 
She finally turned to regard me, folding her hands on the desk in front of her. “Miss...Miss Russell,” she said, the title only slightly questioning, “I know personally everyone in the same line of research as myself. You must understand how specialized areas of higher math are. Even doctorates in the same general area would require a great deal of study to understand what—” 
“I read all the papers you’ve published to date last night,” I said. 
She closed her mouth. 
“The Internet is a wonderful invention, isn’t it?” I said, deliberately misunderstanding her surprise. “Nice work on the new encryption algorithm using prime roots of unity to approximate randomness. That’s a clever trick.” 
Halliday’s voice tightened. “An elementary understanding of—” 
“For God’s sake, Sonya,” said Arthur from behind me, low and rough. “You told me you needed someone who understood your work. Let us help you.” 
I made it back to my car and stood there on the darkened street. I wasn’t sure where to start. 
Fuck. In the past two years, I’d started to take it for granted I had Arthur and Checker around. I had a secure computer back in my apartment, courtesy of Checker, but I wasn’t much better than basic search engines. 
Checker was right, damn him—I should have taken the time to learn. Computers were just math, weren’t they? I ignored the small voice in my head reminding me I’d never have the patience to keep up with the latest hardware, let alone memorize any sort of programming language. 
And I couldn’t take the time now anyway. Fuck me twice. 
Before Checker, I’d had an information guy. His name had been Anton Lechowicz. The last case I’d involved him in had killed him. 
My hand twitched, and I wanted to put my fist through one of the car windows. I hated thinking of Anton. 
And I’d never cultivated any backup contacts. I didn’t like working with people I didn’t know. 
I got into the car and drove home, mulling as I did so, trying to remember who else in my line of work I remotely trusted. The list wasn’t very long. As soon as I got back I pulled a new phone out of a drawer—I’d burned the old one; Checker would be tracking it and I didn’t want him to—and called Ari Tegan, my friendly local forger. He was seriously competent and had desisted from giving me up to the Mafia the year before, which I didn’t really understand but which made me like him even more. He seemed to like me, too, for some reason. I wasn’t sure why. 
"I hear you," he said, sighing. Then he snapped back to the moment. "So where do things stand otherwise?" 
I'd come for an after-the-fact green light of the day's shoot, but already I was thinking about Hannah Klein. "David, I'm going to find out in about an hour whether Steve and I are ever going to have a baby. But truthfully I don't think I'm pregnant. I think it's over." It hurt to say it. He knew about Steve and me—I'd written some language on maternity leave into my contract—and I think he was mildly rooting for us. Or maybe not. 
"Could be it's all for the best," he declared. He'd sat back down, picked up a pencil off his desk to distract himself, and was whirling it pensively, one of his few habits that made me crazy. "Maybe you were destined to make movies, not kids." 
I listened to his tone of voice, knowing he often hid his real feelings with safe, sympathy-card sentiments. He rose to eloquence only when nothing much was at stake. He'd even sent me flowers and a mea-culpa note twice as a make­up after we'd had a disagreement over costs and scheduling. And one of those times, I should have sent him flowers. Sometimes I wondered why we worked so well together. The truth was, we operated on very different wavelengths. 
“Got you out, grabbed another car, got you back here. Ain’t seen no one on our tail.” 
God bless bad LA traffic and horrible police response times. “Where are we?” 
“Bolt hole. Mine.” 
“Wait, since when do you have bolt holes?” I’d been after Arthur to keep safe houses for years; I was shocked he might’ve actually listened to me. He tended to think I was paranoid. 
Arthur cleared his throat. “Just the one.” 
“Thank Christ,” I grumbled. “See? I told you so. It pays to be prepared.” 
“Stop gloating.” 
“Fine. What about Halliday?” 
“I reached her. Told her to lie low. She’s going to her friend’s, Dr. Martinez’s—says she’s safe.” 
“Good.” Well, unless Dr. Martinez was the one responsible for all this, I reminded myself. Fuck. I pushed my fingers against my throbbing temples. The violence was escalating so quickly...“Why wouldn’t they have just killed Halliday in the first place?” 
Arthur flinched. “From what you said about deciphering the math, maybe they knew they might need her. ’Sides, the authorities would investigate a murder. They must’ve figured intimidation would work better.” 
Barbara called me at the office on July 4th weekend. I wasn't the only one who'd come into work on the holiday weekend, but I was the only one whose excuse was that my day-release program wouldn't let me leave town. 
In the end, they convicted me of stealing Masha's phone. Can you believe that? The prosecution had done a deal with my lawyer to drop all charges related to "Electronic terrorism" and "inciting riots" in exchange for my pleading guilty to the misdemeanor petty theft charge. I got three months in a day-release program with a half-way house for juvenile offenders in the Mission. I slept at the halfway house, sharing a dorm with a bunch of actual criminals, gang kids and druggie kids, a couple of real nuts. During the day, I was "free" to go out and work at my "job." 
"Marcus, they're letting her go," she said. 
"Who?" 
"Johnstone, Carrie Johnstone," she said. "The closed military tribunal cleared her of any wrongdoing. The file is sealed. She's being returned to active duty. They're...  was Severe Haircut Woman's name. It came out in the preliminary hearings at the California Superior Court, but that was just about all that came out. She wouldn't say a word about who she took orders from, what she'd done, who had been imprisoned and why. She just sat, perfectly silent, day after day, in the courthouse. 
We drove out of town and down the highway. Nikko warned Bree not to go so fast, and she argued it would look suspicious if we were traveling way slower than everyone else. They negotiated a settlement, no more than ten miles over the speed limit. Then they squabbled over what music to play, joking about each other’s terrible taste. It was adorable. I felt like barfing. 
“I just remembered.” Bree said suddenly. “I heard this inter- view with the head of one of the automobile manufacturers? He said cars have trackers that can tell all kinds of information about drivers.” 
“Great,” Nikko said. “So we’re leaving a trail no matter what we do?” 
“You don’t have OnStar, do you?” I said, sitting up to look at the dashboard. 
“No way. My dad has it. I think he did it so I wouldn’t ask to borrow his car.” 
“Lojack or any other antitheft thing?” 
“Nope.” 
“What year is this car?” 
“I think it’s . . . 2003? It has serious rust problems.” 
“We should be okay,” I said. “It probably just has an EDR. 
Ria took his hand again. Leaned forward. Gave him a dry, firm kiss on the mouth. Leaned back. 
"Thank you," she said. 
"Don't thank me," he said. "I'm not doing you any favors." 
She stood up, pulling him to his feet. 
"Welcome to the team," she said. "Welcome to Viktor." 
The doomed rogue AI is called BIGMAC and he is my responsibility. Not my responsibility as in "I am the creator of BIGMAC, responsible for his existence on this planet." That honor belongs to the long-departed Dr Shannon, one of the shining lights of the once great Sun-Oracle Institute for Advanced Studies, and he had been dead for years before I even started here as a lowly sysadmin. 
No, BIGMAC is my responsibility as in, "I, Odell Vyphus, am the systems administrator responsible for his care, feeding and eventual euthanizing." Truth be told, I'd rather be Dr Shannon (except for the being dead part). I may be a lowly grunt, but I'm smart enough to know that being the Man Who Gave The World AI is better than being The Kid Who Killed It. 
It took my brain several seconds to catch up with his words, and then I cried, “You what?” 
“Found it. In Polk’s house, once I tracked down she was the killer. Was only a few weeks ago.” 
“What was on it?” 
“Couldn’t tell; it was all coded up. But it’s useless.” 
“How do you know that if it’s encrypted?” 
His face was all moon-eyed hopelessness. “Asked Dawna Polk about it. She said it was nothing.” 
Holy crap. “Arthur, where is the drive now?” 
“Checker’s got it. I’m going to get it back from him and toss it, though.” 
“Arthur! Arthur, no, that’s—that’s not you talking; that’s—forget it. Have you talked to Checker about this yet?” 
He sighed. “I can’t reach him.” 
I was suddenly having trouble breathing. “You can’t reach him?” 
“No. It’s strange, you know? He usually answers. I can’t reach...I can’t reach anybody.” 
Oh, crap. Oh, fuck. How had I not thought of this before? Shit, I had mentioned Checker in my generous tell-all to Dawna, and I had only just met him. Arthur worked with him all the time. 
I strove to move again, heaved like I was trying to pull a muscle, and managed to twitch my wrist on the arm of the chair. Metal bit into my skin, cold and unyielding. 
The Lancer had started up with his meditation balls again; the sound traced out where he paced behind me. I wasn’t keeping good track of time at the moment, but it wasn’t very long before his men brought in Martinez. 
She was walking under her own power, and aside from also being cuffed up, she didn’t look any the worse for the wear. Apparently the Lancer had only felt the need to take out his anger on the person who had personally fucked him over. Thank God. 
Martinez plopped herself down in a chair across from me, and the goons chained her in, just as they had done to me. She managed to sit in the manacles primly, somehow, as if she were about to take tea and cakes. 
My muscles were responding now, a little bit, though twitching my fingers still felt like I was pushing through glue. 
The clack, clack, clack approached my shoulder, and I felt the Lancer lean on the chair behind me. “Last chance,” he said. “You really don’t want us to touch her?” 
Standing there gazing at it, I think I'd never felt more disoriented. Sarah, Sarah, how could we both end up here, at the last outpost of the known world? But seeing is believ­ing. I took a deep breath, then turned down the pathway toward the thatch-roofed huts. 
Through the mist it was gradually becoming clear that Baalum actually was a village, and a sizable one. The walk­way led past a string of clearings, each with clusters of one-room huts built in the ancient, classical style, with walls of mud over rows of vertical saplings, their roofs and porches peaked with yellow-green thatch weathering to browns and grays. The structures, outlined starkly against the towering green arbor of the forest above, were grouped around paved patios. It all was neat and meticulous, like a jungle Brigadoon. Although the effects of the storm were every­where—blown thatch and bamboo—I still felt as if I'd fallen into a time warp where clocks had gone backward. What . . . ? 
Then I began to catch the outlines of people, as though they had materialized out of the pale fog. All pure Maya, short and brown, shiny black hair, they appeared to be just going about their daily lives. I was approaching a workshop area where, under a wide thatch shade, men with chipped-flint adzes were carving bowls, plows, various implements from mahogany and other rain forest woods. Next to them, potters were fashioning brown clay jugs. They all were wear­ing white loincloths and a large square cotton cloth knotted around their shoulders, their hair tied back in dense ponytails. It must have been how the Maya looked a thousand years ago. 
“Let’s see ID.” 
I retrieved the state photo ID tucked in the back of my phone case. I had gotten it as soon as I turned nineteen because the curfew for fourteen is an hour earlier and I wanted to be able to prove I deserved that extra hour. I hoped he wouldn’t ask me to hand him my phone, because I’d say no and then I’d have hours of hassle. 
I held my breath and tried to look innocent. I was afraid he would punch my name into his laptop and, while I didn’t have any kind of record, it might say I was related to an alleged terrorist and that could lead to complications. 
The radio inside the cruiser chattered as he scrutinized the card. My heart was hammering, even though it wasn’t the first time I’d been stopped by cops. Monica had given me the Talk soon after I went to live with her. If you’re white, the Talk means hav- ing an embarrassed parent try to explain things about sex that you already know (and maybe already tried). 
But if you’re black, it’s being told how important it is to act respectful and submissive when the cops stop you because they’re allowed to kill you if you don’t. 
“Hey, Lucy?” 
“Anda, if you’re not going to call me Sarge, at least don’t call me ‘Hey, Lucy!’ My dad loved that old TV show and he makes that joke every visitation day.” 
“Sorry, Sarge. Sarge?” 
“Yes, Anda?” 
“I just can’t understand why anyone would pay us cash for these missions.” 
“You complaining?” 
“No, but—” 
“Anyone asking you to cyber some old pervert?” 
“No!” 
“OK then. I don’t know either. But the money’s good. I don’t care. Hell, probably it’s two rich gamers who pay their butlers to craft for them all day. One’s fucking with the other one and paying us.” 
“You really think that?” 
Lucy sighed a put-upon, sophisticated, American sigh. “Look at it this way. Most of the world is living on like a dollar a day. I spend five dollars every day on a frappuccino. Some days, I get two! Dad sends mom three thousand a month in child-support—that’s a hundred bucks a day. So if a day’s money here is a hundred...  my frappuccino is worth like five hundred dollars . And I buy two or three every day. 
“I’m not made of sugar,” said Lexy scornfully, “I’ve got to run down there just for an instant, before I go in.” 
“But, I say, your nice little hat, you know!” 
Lexy pulled off the nice little hat and laid it on his knee. Then she rapped on the window, the driver stopped, and Lexy opened the door. 
“No! Look here! Please, Miss Moran!” cried Captain Grey. “Very well, then, if you will go, I’ll go with you!” 
“I’d rather you didn’t,” said Lexy. “I feel as if I’d like to go alone just for one look. You know how it is, sometimes. I haven’t had even a smell of the sea for so long; and it reminds me—” 
She looked at him with a shadowy little smile, and he did understand. 
“All right!” he said. “Then slip on my coat.” 
She did so, to oblige him, and off she went, half running, down the lane, in the direction of the sound of the surf. Captain Grey looked after her—such an absurd little figure in that aquascutum of his that almost touched the ground! He watched her till she was out of sight; then he sat down in the cab and lit a cigarette. 
Lee-Daniel turned around slowly, getting away from the harsh white light. Green blobs swam in his vision. He began, very gently, to sink to his knees, when out of the corner of his eye, he spotted Elaine and two of her crew, in silhouette, up in the boughs of a maple that they must have climbed as soon as the SQ arrived on the scene. More steps from the brush, the light coming closer. 
Cobra...  on him, his rifle at his shoulder. Two laser-dots danced on him, and Lee-Daniel had an irrational urge to slap them away, like horseflies. 
The young girl hit her fogger, spraying a thick, opaque cloud of gas. "Cover your eyes," she said, and giggled again. Lee-Daniel pulled his shirt up over his face and dropped. He belly-crawled blindly, towards where he thought Elaine and her crew had been treed. 
He knocked his head on a tree-trunk and gasped involuntarily, getting a lungful of the gas, which made him retch into the depths of his shirt, bringing on more gasps and more retching. He rolled for the clearing's edge, hit another tree and got to his knees, heaving like a dog. He still had hold of the tablet, and when he could open his eyes again, he looked into it, saw the investors still staring at him, wide-eyed. 
Ray has always preferred the Marine method. He likes to have his orders on paper, on record, somewhere handy so he can point to them and say, should it become necessary, / did not screw up here, gentlemen. I was merely the instrument of someone else's screw up. 
On the desk in his room, Ray has a standard issue EED personal terminal. Looks exactly like the terminals in every other enlisted guy's berth-blocky, ugly, supposed-to-be beige. They run pathetic forty gig processors, 
which is okay since most people use them for things like checking their mail, receiving the latest policy directives or orders from their immediate NCO, checking out the next day's menu in the crew mess, surfing for pornography. 
Ray's terminal has a different set of guts. His processor speed is clocked in petaflops, half of which are dedicated to maintaining the encryption system. The other half are tied to the network cable, which itself loops into a disturbingly powerful signal accelerator of the sort usually installed in places like the primary comm bridge. The accelerator plugs into a private router that Sorensen was ordered to install so that any work Ray might perform on his PC would dash right past the network, through the ship's datacore, directly attach to a dedicated transmitter constantly reconfigured to beam along the EED's secure channel of Rapid Relay buoys. All of this nifty stealth messaging technology and Paraclete'?, attempts to encrypt and/or hide the fact that messages sent through it even existed devoured ominous chunks of the ship's computing resources. Just turning his terminal on had been known to send computer tech troubleshooters screaming off in a panic. So  Ray simply didn't do it. It made him feel too guilty. 
“Maybe we should wait this out in the cage,” he said. 
“What about Kelly?” Van said. 
Felix felt like he was going to throw up. “We should get into the cage, now.” The cage had microparticulate air-filters. 
They ran upstairs to the big cage. Felix opened the door and then let it hiss shut behind him. 
“Felix, you need to get home—” 
“It’s a bioweapon,” Felix said. “Superbug. We’ll be OK in here, I think, so long as the filters hold out.” 
“What?” 
“Get on IRC,” he said. 
They did. Van had Mayor McCheese and Felix used Smurfette. They skipped around the chat channels until they found one with some familiar handles. 
Felix typed: I’m in Toronto. We just saw the CN Tower fall. I’ve heard reports of bioweapons, something very fast. 
Van read this and said, “You don’t know how fast it is, Felix. Maybe we were all exposed three days ago.” 
Felix closed his eyes. “If that were so we’d be feeling some symptoms, I think.” 
› You’re in Toronto? 
It was an unfamiliar handle. 
› my sisters at UofT and i cnt reach her—can you call her? 
“Yes—my oldest is thirteen—” 
“Then we ain’t letting the Feds bury you before we get to the bottom of this thing first, and maybe not even then, you hear? You did a boneheaded stupid thing while trying to do right, and that ain’t enough for me to leave three kids without their father.” 
“Arthur, now meant now,” I said. 
“I—uh—thank you?” managed Zhang. His expression was more hapless fear than gratitude, but Arthur just pressed his lips together and hustled the man off with us. 
We drove together; I took the wheel in Arthur’s rental car. He didn’t bring up his and Checker’s conversation with me, for which I was grateful. I’d shoved all of it—my discoveries, Checker’s stupid accusations, our fight, everything—into a box in the back of my head to deal with later, neatly compartmentalizing. I was back on the job, and I had to be able to focus. 
I swallowed back against my hangover and drove. 
The first thing we did was button up Dr. Zhang in one of my bolt holes with Pilar watching him. Then we drove to the safe house. 
“I’m not!” replied Lexy sharply. 
“I hope it’s not a chill,” said Captain Grey. 
“I should be inclined to think it nervousness,” said Dr. Quelton. “Our landscape here is lonely and depressing, and Miss Moran has the artist’s temperament, impressionable, high-strung.” 
“Not I!” declared Lexy, in a tone that startled Captain Grey. “Lonely places don’t bother me. I don’t believe in ghosts.” 
“Oh!” said the doctor. “But here’s Mrs. Quelton. Muriel, this is Miss Moran, the young writer of fiction.” 
Mrs. Quelton was coming down the long room, a beautiful woman, dark and delicate, with a sort of plaintive languor in her manner. She held out her hand to Lexy. 
“I’m so glad you’ve come!” she said. “George has told me so much about you—the first American girl he’s known!” 
She glanced at her brother with a little smile. Lexy glanced at him, too; and she was surprised and very much touched by the look on his face. He couldn’t even smile. His face was grave, pale, almost solemn, and he was regarding his sister with something like reverence. 
But Lexy was pretty close to desperation now. Her honest and vigorous spirit was entangled in a network of promises and obligations and deceptions, and she could not see how to free herself; but she would not passively submit. 
“No,” she said, “I can’t. I’ve found out something—I can’t tell you about it just now, but this afternoon I hope—” 
“This afternoon is another thing,” said Mrs. Enderby. “In the meantime—” 
“But it’s important! It’s—” 
“You think I do not know? You think this letter sets my mind at rest?” Mrs. Enderby demanded, with one of her sudden flashes of temper. “That is imbecile! I know how serious it is that my child should leave me like this; but I know what is my duty—first, to my husband. That first, I tell you! It is for me to see that no disgrace comes upon his house, no scandal—that first! Then, next, I must see to it that the way is left open for Caroline to come back—if she wishes.” She came close to Lexy, and fixed those black eyes of hers upon the girl’s face. “I tell you, Miss Moran, there will be no scandal!” 
It may be that Holcomb remembers it the same way. A fleeting shadow, like pain or guilt, clouds his features. 
He continues, "I was a grand fool then, Ray. I admit that. But I was a fool because I came from a rational tradition. Our culture, our society, put away a belief in devils around the time of the Salem witch trials. We responded to our own penchant for hysteria by denying its source, by embracing science and tactual reality and the physical world as a singular, dominant principle. We threw out the baby with the bath water, as it were. 
"After Ba'dai, I was insane for quite some time. I won't pretend that I was anything else. I have distinct memories of babbling to you about things I'm sure neither one of us understood at the time. But I wasn't insane in the traditional sense. I was achieving some sort of radical reorientation of consciousness. I was developing a perception of the dual nature of existence, with all that such a transformation entails. You know what that looks like, don't you? What it means? You've seen filthy old sinners converted to good Baptist standing, struck by Grace, transmogrified into Sunday-suit wearing zealots who see the finger of the Divine in every decision, every coincidence, every conversation. Conversion to a new paradigm is the introduction to a vast and terrible unexplored country. And turning your back on accepted reality— the reality that the mass of humanity has created and agreed upon— is the definition of madness. 
I turned back and let myself into the outer lobby, glancing around as I did. There were no parcels anywhere, just blank, brown tile. 
My apartment was 3A. The name on the bell was M. James. As I stepped through the inner lobby—still no pack­age—a rumpled face appeared in the doorway just to my left. The sign on it, flaking, said SUPER. 
"Oh, hi." The voice was Patrick Mooney, our superinten­dent, who did not normally emerge to greet those arriving. But there had been complaints from the building's managing agent that he could never be found for emergencies, so he probably wanted to appear available, even on Sundays. His voice was slurred from some midday medicinal Irish whisky. "Thought you were home. FedEx guy was here earlier look­ing for you." 
Oh, boy. "Did he leave a package?" 
"He had something with him, if that's what you mean. Like a bag of some kind." 
"And you let him go up?" I couldn't believe what I was hearing. I felt a rush of dismay. 
"Said he had to. Needed a signature." Patrick Mooney then shrugged and reached for the dooijamb to steady himself, his whisky breath wafting across the hall. Great security. 
"They were your own, Rebecca," interposed aunt Jane, "and if you chose to save them to give away, it is all right. We ought never to let this day pass without giving our neighbors something to be thankful for, instead of taking all the time to think of our own mercies." 
The Burnham sisters nodded approvingly as Rebecca went out, and remarked that they had never seen a child grow and improve so fast in so short a time. 
"There's plenty of room left for more improvement, as you'd know if she lived in the same house with you," answered Miranda. "She's into every namable thing in the neighborhood, an' not only into it, but generally at the head an' front of it, especially when it's mischief. Of all the foolishness I ever heard of, that lamp beats everything; it's just like those Simpsons, but I didn't suppose the children had brains enough to sell anything." 
"One of them must have," said Miss Ellen Burnham, "for the girl that was selling soap at the Ladds' in North Riverboro was described by Adam Ladd as the most remarkable and winning child he ever saw." 
It was Sarah's eyes that caught me. They pierced into my soul and we seemed to click, just like always, only this time it was as though all our life together passed between us. I had the sense she was trying to tell me something with her eyes that went beyond words, that she was trying to reach out to me, perhaps to recapture that shared understanding we'd had years ago. 
Lou introduced me to a Mrs. Reilly, a kindly, Irish-looking practical nurse who was part of the outpatient package the hospital provided. She wore a white uniform and was around sixty, with short-bobbed gray hair and an air of total author­ity. She'd just finished feeding Sarah a bowl of soup, and was brushing out her cropped blond hair, what there was of it. 
Mrs. Reilly glanced at me, but never broke the rhythm of her strokes. "She's tired now, but she's already stronger than she was." 
Then Lou spoke up. "They called me early yesterday morning. But by the time I got around to trying to reach you, you'd vanished. So I rang Dave and he told me where you were, up there with that crackpot." He was grinning. No, make that beaming like the famous cat. "By last night, she was walking with some help, so they said she might as well be here. Like I said, it's a miracle." 
“Zackly!” he said, prodding her podge anew. “That’s the stuff! Getting my head trodden on was what made me the man I are today!” 
Her Da could bluster all he liked about paying the bills, but she had pocket-money for the first time in her life: not book-tokens and...  could be exchanged for “healthy” snacks and literature. She had real money, cash money that she could spend outside of the 500 meter sugar-free zone that surrounded her school. 
She wasn’t just kicking arse in the game, now—she was the richest kid she knew, and suddenly she was everybody’s best pal, with handsful of Curly...  that she could selectively distribute to her schoolmates. 
“Go get a BFG,” Lucy said. “We’re going on a mission.” 
Lucy’s voice in her ear was a constant companion in her life now. When she wasn’t on Fahrenheit Island, she and Lucy were running missions into the wee hours of the night. The Fahrenheit armorers, non-player-characters, had learned to recognise her and they had the Clan’s BFGs oiled and ready for her when she showed up. 
Her mother had not questioned the food nor the clothes nor her daughter’s absence that night. But oh, she had given Valentine a look when she came through the door carrying all her parcels, a look that said, not my daughter any more . Not a look that refused what she bore, but a look that refused her . Valentine didn’t bother trying to explain. She knew what her mother suspected and it was better in some ways than the truth. 
Her mother... She ate sardines on toast, green beef tea, and a heap of...  herring, then she put on her uniform and took up her gun and went out the door, without a look back at Valentine. 
By the end of the week, she won’t have to worry about me , Valentine thought. The fever made her fingers shake, but she still drank her hot chocolate. 
Trover knew his own way to the creche, and so Valentine went forth to earn her family’s fortune. 
The wizard had given her a small sack of little electronic marbles, and had told her to get them planted in no fewer than three hundred locations at the front and in the places where the fighting was likely to move. They were spy-eyes, the kind of thing that she and her friends had exchanged to keep in one-anothers’ rooms before the war, so they could sneak midnight conversations in perfect encrypted secrecy. 
A muscle in my leg twitched, then my right hand. Stupid muscles. 
God, I needed to sleep. 
I vaguely heard Checker and Pilar talking in hushed tones, but my head felt wrapped in layers of cotton. Narcotic painkillers. Right. 
An itch in my brain—something else, something I had to remember to do. I dredged through the layers of cotton wool. “Hey. Checker.” 
He moved over and touched my hand. “I’m here.” 
“The pyro dude. D.J. I don’t think he was there. I don’t think they got him.” 
He paused for a long moment. “Okay. Thanks.” 
“You want to talk about it?” 
He squeezed my hand briefly. “Maybe another time. Go to sleep now.” 
I drifted off on Checker’s couch, and for once I didn’t dream. God bless the good drugs. 
When I woke up, Checker and Pilar were absent, but Arthur was sitting across the room working on a laptop. When I made a noise and sat up, he hurried over, snagging the bottle of painkillers and a glass of water off the end table. “Here. How you feeling?” 
I waved off the pills. Not that I didn’t need them—everything ached, and my muscles felt stitched onto my bones as if I were a poor version of Pinocchio. But I wanted to be awake. “Been better,” I said. “I guess I’ve also been worse, though.” I leaned back on the couch. Sitting up was about as far as I felt I could manage for the moment. “What’s going on? What was wrong with Martinez? Is she okay now?” 
Next I pulled out my date book and punched in a phone number I'd scribbled in the back. I'd gotten it when I was winding up my interview with Carly Grove. 
"Children of Light," said an unctuous voice. "This is Ramala." 
I hesitated a moment before giving my name. They already knew who I was; Ramala or somebody had called Paula Marks and asked about me. Me. What would she do when she heard it was yours truly in the flesh? 
I tried to take a deep breath, working around the feeling my lungs were on fire, and identified myself. 
Ramala received the information as though she'd never heard of me. Maybe she hadn't. Then I asked for an appoint­ment with Alex Goddard. As soon as it was convenient. 
"He leaves his Saturdays open," she said, more of the smiley voice, "so I could make a special appointment for you tomorrow. Would ten A.M. be all right?" 
Her accent was the kind of Delhi colonial-ruling-class you associate with expensive silk saris and ruby bracelets, yet at the same time her voice had an overlay of that melodious, touchy-feely unctuousness you hear on relaxation tapes. I half expected her to next say, inhale deeply and feel the love flowing through the universe. In any case, she couldn't have sounded more open and forthcoming. 
<wheeze> Headdesk. Wilson and ringleader do not belong in the same sentence. 
<zen> That thing about you not being a wanted man? It's not true. It's just the *police* who don't want you. 
<wheeze> Haha . My parents didn't, either. Or my relatives. But I'm glad you do. I can come visit you now! I've been checking out the bus schedules. I can't wait to see you. 
Something in my stomach twisted hard. I lay back on the bed, 
trying to empty my head, trying not to think or feel. Eventually I turned off my phone and went back to looking for the bug in my code. When I pulled back the cover to get into bed around four a.m. the phone fell to the floor. I stuck it in a drawer and went to sleep. 
A few days passed before I turned my phone on again and read the messages Wheeze had left. 
<wheeze> Are you okay? 
<wheeze> I think I misunderstood something. 
I won't visit unless you want. 
<wheeze> I think of you as someone who's so fierce and brave that I forget you have feel- ings and I think I hurt them somehow. I don't know if you had anything to do with what hap- pened with Simon Meyer, but if I triggered bad memories, I'm sorry. 
I started to say something, then for some reason told the her truth. “nineteen.” 
“Shouldn’t you be in school?” 
“I go to an alternative school. It’s all self-paced. Besides, school let out already.” 
She sipped her tea, then seemed annoyed that it fogged up her glasses and she had wipe them off with a handkerchief. “So, your brother was arrested on terrorism charges?” she finally said. 
“Bogus terrorism charges. There’s video of it online.” I pulled out my phone, found the clip that was making the rounds on YouTube, then handed it over to her. 
She squinted, turned it on its side. “What am I supposed to do with this?” 
“Push the little arrow.” 
She pushed it, lowered it into her lap, then tried looking at it from under her glasses, as if trying to sneak up on it. “The screen’s far too small.” 
“Do you have a computer with an internet connection?” 
“Yes, but something’s wrong with it. Every time I try to get online I get the same stupid advertisements.” 
“Let me check it out.” 
She got that cross stitch look around her mouth again before snapping, “I suppose you think a child of five would be better with computers than an ancient hag like me? I was using the internet before you were born, not to mention conducting complex legal searches on powerful databases.” 
Lexy came nearer to him. 
“Don’t stand it!” she whispered. “Take her away! Can’t you see ? Take her away!” 
“How can I? Her husband—she doesn’t want to go.” 
“Make her! Oh, can’t you see? He’s giving her some horrible drug!” 
“You mustn’t be alarmed,” said Dr. Quelton’s voice from the hall. They both looked at him with a guilty start, but his blank eyes were staring past them, at nothing. “It is unfortunate,” he said. “The little excitement of this visit—” 
He walked past them into the room and over to the table, where his pipe lay among the chessmen. He lit it deliberately and stood smoking it, with one arm resting on the mantelpiece. 
“In her present highly nervous condition,” he went on, “the little excitement of this visit has proved too much for her. I shall drive over to the hospital and fetch a nurse—” 
“A nurse!” cried the young man. “Then she’s—” 
“There is absolutely no occasion for alarm, as I told you before. A few days’ rest and quiet—” 
“Look here, sir!” said Captain Grey. “It seems to me—I’ve no wish to be offensive, or anything of that sort, but it seems right to me”—he paused for a moment—“to get a second opinion.” 
"Our boy didn't use no lift," he says. 
"How can you know that?" 
"Number one, the non-passenger deck lifts don't have an express override. He would have been running a chance that anybody who wanted to get on the lift at any point between where he got on and Omicron could just push a button, wait for the doors to open and find him out. " 
Rodriguez says, "Unless he was hard enough that he wouldn't have any qualms killing someone he encountered in an accidental meeting. From what you've said, Ray, about the disposition of the corpse, I'd assume this is a guy without qualms." 
Kilgore jerks his thumb at Rodriguez and winks. "Officer material here is forgetting that then the suspect would have two or more bodies to dispose of then, and he'd have a mess to deal with in the elevator. That creates a whole bunch of annoying details to deal with. I'd assume if I was trying to stash a body somewhere that I'd go out of my way to avoid creating extra details." 
"Besides that," Diggs went on. "I got me a lift sensor that pings my radio whenever the elevator stops on this level. The cargo boys know that they're supposed to wait for me to come back to them if they need to make a pick up, and they can't get into any of the bays without my card to admit them, so the system works just fine. I would have known if the suspect had come down on the lift, unless it didn't happen on my shift. If it happened before I punched in, then the last shift would have found the body-assuming, of course that they even stepped away from the desk in the first place, which is unlikely." 
After you get the proof from Martinez? 
I closed my eyes and pushed the thought away. I shouldn’t want it anymore, should I? This was like one of those old-style fables, the ones with the morals. I had chased the proof beyond reason, and it had led me to ruin. I should feel noble about letting it go and preach about the power of friendship over selfish desires. Or something. 
I couldn’t do it. 
I’d fucked up, badly, but volunteering to give up the chance to know Martinez’s proof was too high a penance. Too much to ask. Just the prospect felt like offering to saw off one of my own limbs. Something in me was broken, and willingly staying broken forever wasn’t something I could do, however much my guilt told me I might deserve it. 
I still needed the proof, no matter what Martinez or the NSA or the DHS had to say about it. 
But to salve my guilty conscience, I promised myself I would get it without going too far this time. I could bide my time. See what the Feds’ play was. 
A muscle in my leg twitched, then my right hand. Stupid muscles. 
The rod began to bore into the wood below it, sawdust gathering where it spun—sawdust that began to blacken as I kept up the friction, the rod spinning relentlessly. The sharp tang of smoke in the air was a benediction. It was working. 
The blackening sawdust turned to a tiny coal of an ember, and I stopped spinning, my palms prickling with numbness. I picked up the piece of wood and very carefully tipped my tiny ember into my thread pile. Then I leaned down and blew very, very gently. 
The stoichiometry of combustion filtered through me as I added O 2 into the equation, nursing my delicate little ember against the threads. Smoke began curling up in a thin tendril, tickling my nose. I kept blowing. 
Some of the threads began to blacken against the ember, crinkling into ash...and between one moment and the next a little flame burst up. 
The flame swallowed the ball of thread and licked at the paper cupping it, and I quickly held other folds of crumpled pages around it until their edges flared, too. Then I poked the pieces of burning paper into each corner of the kindling pile. I didn’t need to check my watch again. I’d been tracking the time closely, and we were just over a minute before the hour—right on time. 
They followed her into a dimly lit hall. She opened a door on the right, and lit the gas in what was obviously the “best parlor”—a dreadful room, stiff and ugly, and smelling of camphor and dampness. Captain Grey remained in the hall to settle with the driver, and Lexy decided to let her share of the reckoning wait for a more auspicious occasion. She went into the parlor with Mrs. Royce. 
“You and your husband just come from the city?” inquired the landlady. 
“He’s not my husband,” replied Lexy, with a laugh. “I never set eyes on him before. There was only one taxi, and we were both looking for a hotel. The driver said you took boarders, and that’s how we happened to come together.” 
“I don’t take boarders much, ’cept in the summer time,” said Mrs. Royce. She was a stout, comfortable sort of creature, gray-haired, and very neat in her dark dress and clean white apron. She had a kindly, good-humored face, too, but she had a landlady’s eye. “People don’t come here much, this time of year,” she went on. “Nothing to bring ’em here.” 
“Acknowledged, Detective. It is my—” 
He hung up and told the UNATS Robotics mechanism running his car to get him down to the station house as fast as it could, angry with himself and with Ada—whose middle name was Trouble, after all—for making him deal with a robot before he’d had his morning meditation and destim session. The name had been his ex-wife’s idea, something she’d insisted on long enough to make sure that it got onto the kid’s birth certificate before defecting to Eurasia with their life’s savings, leaving him with a new baby and the deep suspicion of his co-workers who wondered if he wouldn’t go and join her. 
His ex-wife. He hadn’t thought of her in years. Well, months. Weeks, certainly. She’d been a brilliant computer scientist, the valedictorian of her Positronic Complexity Engineering class at the UNATS Robotics school at the University of Toronto. Dumping her husband and her daughter was bad enough, but the worst of it was that she dumped her country and its way of life. Now she was ensconced in her own research lab in Beijing, making the kinds of runaway Positronics that made the loathsome robots of UNATS look categorically beneficent. 
“I saw some blast shields back there,” I tossed to his partner without stopping what I was doing. “Go grab some.” This time she didn’t hesitate before sprinting away. 
The math here wouldn’t be difficult. Just simple division: weight and volume. And then watch like a hawk to see where my darling victim was putting his weight so I could match it. The massively hard part would be the juggling act itself. And fuck, I’d probably pull a muscle. 
Whatever. Man’s life, and all that. Arthur was a bad influence. 
I heaved over the first ammo case. The dimensions of the fire safe gave it a volume of just over five gallons, which would be enough, barely. I poured the cardboard box of ammunition inside, my senses alert to double-check the weight and keep track of where I was at. The rounds tinkled over each other as they filled the bottom of the safe. 
“I’m telling you, this won’t work,” the male agent said again, his young voice hoarse and dry. “Go. Just go.” 
I ignored him. I was too busy updating the calculations and staying alert for any weight irregularities in the ammunition as it streamed in. 
Shit! What did Nicky want? Were we behind on the weekly juice? I'd signed on with David partly to help his bottom line. Was I instead going to cause his ruin? 
At the moment he had his back to Nicky, seemed to be meditating out the window he loved, its vista being the grimy facades that lined the far west of Fifty-eighth Street. His office, with its wide windows and forest of freshly misted trees, told you he was a plant nut. Outside it was early April, the cruelest month, but inside, with all the trees, spring was in full cry. The place also felt like a storage room, with piles of scripts stacked around every pot. The office normally smelled like a greenhouse, but now the aroma was one of high anxiety. 
David revolved back and looked across the potted green­ery, then broke into a relieved smile when he saw me. I could tell from his faraway stare that he was teetering on the verge of panic. 
"Hey, come on in," he said. "Nicky's just put a brand-new proposition on the table." 
David had a keen intelligence, causing me to sometimes wonder if he was in a line of work beneath him. (For that matter, maybe I was too.) He was dark-haired, trim, with serious gray eyes and strong cheekbones. This morning he was wearing his trademark black sweater, jeans, and white sneakers, a picture of the serious go-for-broke New York indy-prod hustler. He'd already made and lost and made sev­eral fortunes in his youthful career. My only sexual solace since Steve left was an occasional glance at his trim rear end. I also saluted his fiscal courage. His congenital short­fall, I regret to say, was in the matter of judgment. Exhibit A: Nicholas Russo's funny money. 
“What if I could get it?” 
“Yeah, sure.” Danny drank deeply. 
“For real,” Simon said. “I have a connection.” 
“A connection, wow.” Danny laughed like it was the punch- line of a joke, but Simon didn’t join in. 
“Write down what you need. I’ll get it.” 
Danny looked at him, the smile fading. This time, he was the one being tested. 
That’s when I finally realized Danny wasn’t working for the FBI. Simon was. 
H e could have been recruited ages ago. The cops might have pulled Simon in on a drug charge, then realized that he was part of the same scene as local activists, old enough for the job, 
and easily jammed up because he paid his rent by selling weed to his friends. Given a choice between jail and helping them stage some security theatre, I knew which one Simon would choose. 
Whoever was in that black SUV who had picked him up in the afternoon might been coaching him for this meeting. 
Danny stared at Simon for a moment, then gave him a slight nod, as if they had just made a private agreement. “Tweak, you got any of that weed left?” 
"Yes, aunt Miranda, all born under Syrian skies." 
"Syrian grandmother!" ejaculated Miranda (and it was not a fact). "How many?" 
"I didn't think to ask; but I will get two rooms ready, and if there are any over I'll take 'em into my bed," said Rebecca, secretly hoping that this would be the case. "Now, as you're both half sick, couldn't you trust me just once to get ready for the company? You can come up when I call. Will you?" 
"I believe I will," sighed Miranda reluctantly. "I'll lay down side o' Jane in our bedroom and see if I can get strength to cook supper. It's half past three—don't you let me lay a minute past five. I kep' a good fire in the kitchen stove. I don't know, I'm sure, why I should have baked a pot o' beans in the middle of the week, but they'll come in handy. Father used to say there was nothing that went right to the spot with returned missionaries like pork 'n' beans 'n' brown bread. Fix up the two south chambers, Rebecca." 
Rebecca, given a free hand for the only time in her life, dashed upstairs like a whirlwind. Every room in the brick house was as neat as wax, and she had only to pull up the shades, go over the floors with a whisk broom, and dust the furniture. 
Then I remembered the time Steve and I were in a similar situation. When we got locked in my room at the Oloffson in Port-au-Prince, he'd just taken his Swiss Army knife and unscrewed the knob, then clicked it open. He'd made it look like a piece of cake, but he had a way of doing that. 
He was barely conscious, so this time I'd have to do it myself. I glanced around at his bag. 
"Is your Swiss still in there?" 
"I think . . ." His mind seemed to be wandering. Then he gave a weak thumbs-up. 
I went over and zipped it open. Be there, I prayed. We really could use a break. 
I rummaged through telephoto lenses and film canisters and underwear. Then I found it, zipped inside a water-repel­lent baggie and stuck in a side pouch. 
I snapped it open and went to work, him watching me, his head nodding as he struggled to stay conscious. 
The main difference between this time and Haiti was, here I didn't know what was on the other side and I was having hallucinations of multicolored snakes. 
"You're doing great," he said finally, seeming to come a bit more alive. 
“You might see if Arthur can check the names for you, if he is too busy to take the case,” suggested Tegan. Yeah, right. Fat chance of that. “I’m afraid they work pseudonymously, under screen names, but they do depend on those screen names for their reputations. Let me think. Griffon, Two Key, Doctor Yee, General Zephyr. Grep, Shift, the Lancer, Hijack, a newer gentleman called Lincoln—” 
“Wait,” I said. The Lancer. Holy shit. “Go back.” 
“I can email you a list,” Tegan offered, oblivious. “With their contact information, such as it is. You may give my name, if you like.” 
“I’d appreciate that,” I said. 
I hung up and stared at my computer screen, not seeing it. 
One of the tidbits Checker had dropped while we searched for Martinez was that the Lancer had gone underground, unwilling to make contact with unknown entities for fear someone was an NSA plant. But if I had a reference from Tegan...if the Lancer could be assured I wasn’t a National Security agent in disguise... 
I wasn’t very good undercover, but that was in real life. Virtually, it would be a lot easier to lie. 
Van scratched some more. “I’m sorry,” he said. “I didn’t know.” 
Sario cracked up. “Oh, you are priceless. I’d bet that three quarters of this bunch is borderline autistic. Me, I’m just an asshole. But I’m one who isn’t afraid to tell the truth, and that makes me better than you, dickweed.” 
“Fuckrag,” Felix said, “fuck off.” 
They had less than a day’s worth of fuel when Felix was elected the first ever Prime Minister of Cyberspace. The first count was spoiled by a bot that spammed the voting process and they lost a critical day while they added up the votes a second time. 
But by then, it was all seeming like more of a joke. Half the data-centers had gone dark. Queen Kong’s net-maps of Google queries were looking grimmer and grimmer as more of the world went offline, though she maintained a leader-board of new and rising queries—largely related to health, shelter, sanitation and self-defense. 
Worm-load slowed. Power was going off to many home PC users, and staying off, so their compromised PCs were going dark. The backbones were still lit up and blinking, but the missives from those data-centers were looking more and more desperate. Felix hadn’t eaten in a day and neither had anyone in a satellite Earth-station of transoceanic head-end. 
And because Marines like to fuck so much, the EED pursues an aggressive shipboard policy of keeping the Marine contingent as isolated from the paying passengers as possible. The average upper class lady traveling by starship should not be subjected to the typical Marine version of foreplay, i.e. thumbing through your wallet for small denomination bills. It is perceived as a public relations disaster waiting to happen. 
This is what he has been told, at least, in the barracks. 
It was obviously a big lie. 
Because what he has seen in his two days of liberty is that the passengers of Paraclete are sexual freaks. The whole point of the Garden seems to be finding strangers to bump pelvic zones with. You can't stroll into a public washroom without finding some young gentlemen sticking it to a pretty girl in a party dress on the sink counter. Attractions are instant, obvious, acted upon with hardly a word spoken. Everything is casual; everything is libido. Even asking a women the time of day is roughly equivalent to granting permission for a vigorous fondling. 
"Behold yourself, Morgan. As befits a royal one, a special one, your nose has been built up with clay and pierced with lustrous blue feathers and a giant topaz. Your front teeth have been filed to a point and inlaid with jewels, your royal skull has been shaped back and flattened." 
I gazed into the mirror and gasped. I was monstrous, a Halloween harpy. 
Then he moved over to a waist-high censer stationed there on the edge of the platform and began adding balls of sticky white copal resin, together with bark and grasses, which he ignited by the quick friction of a fire stick spun by a bow. 
Finally he turned to me and held out his hands. "Now we will make a miracle, the miracle of Baalum ." 
Heavy smoke from the censer was pouring out into the rainy sky as we started a stiff pas de deux , the strains of a clay flute drifting around us. Was it the "ceremony"? Was I dreaming it? 
As the incense billowed, our Maya dreamtime dance be­came ever more intense, and then a faint form began to writhe up out of the haze between us, an undulating serpent the deep color of jade. As Alex Goddard wrapped his arms around it, it began to form into two dark heads, then pirouette above us. Finally, as the two-headed specter opened its mouths and gazed down on the platform, Sarah stepped to­ward it and held out her arms. 
Sean was getting the hang of talking to Adele. "Ethan and my grandfather seem to be hitting it off." 
"Oh, I certainly hope so! Ethan could use some friends at that place." 
Sean pictured the two of them, seated across from each other at the ward table, running maintenance routines at each other, saying, "Yes," "Yes." Unbidden, a grin came to Sean's face. 
"Why did you put Ethan in the Home?" Sean asked, shifting to catch more sun on his face. 
"He wanted to go," she said. "The doctor came by and told him about it and asked him if he wanted to go, and he said 'Yes.' That was it!" 
Sean snuck a look at Adele. She was wincing into the light, following it like a sunflower. "Adele," he said. 
"Yes, Sean?" 
"Ethan was in maintenance mode. He was switched off. He said 'Yes,' because his subroutines didn't want to be any trouble. You know that, right?" 
"Oh, that foolishness again! Ethan's a good boy , is all. He remembers my birthday and Mother's Day, every year." 
"Subroutines, Adele," Sean said, straining to keep an inexplicable anger out of his voice. 
"Blamed if I can repeat any of it. She kep' me so surprised I didn't have my wits about me. She had a little pink sunshade—it kind o' looked like a doll's amberill, 'n' she clung to it like a burr to a woolen stockin'. I advised her to open it up—the sun was so hot; but she said no, 't would fade, an' she tucked it under her dress. 'It's the dearest thing in life to me,' says she, 'but it's a dreadful care.' Them 's the very words, an' it's all the words I remember. 'It's the dearest thing in life to me, but it's an awful care!' "—here Mr. Cobb laughed aloud as he tipped his chair back against the side of the house. 
"There was another thing, but I can't get it right exactly. She was talkin' 'bout the circus parade an' the snake charmer in a gold chariot, an' says she, 'She was so beautiful beyond compare, Mr. Cobb, that it made you have lumps in your throat to look at her.' She'll be comin' over to see you, mother, an' you can size her up for yourself. I don' know how she'll git on with Mirandy Sawyer—poor little soul!" 
“Well, well,” said a man’s voice. “We’ve been looking for you.” 
My reflexes were a hair slower than normal, fortunately, because it took that split second for me to stop myself from twisting the gun out of the guy’s hand and flipping it back on him. I turned my aborted reaction into a slight stumble. It was frighteningly easy to play weak. 
“A mistake, going anywhere the big eyes can see you,” said the man who had me at gunpoint. He was a large, swarthy fellow, who seemed to take far too much delight in gesturing upward with a gleeful smile. 
Right. Shit. The strip mall had security cameras. And from the sound of it, the Lancer was almost as good as Checker. He’d been searching for my face since we’d planted the false trail. Come to that, I was lucky the NSA wasn’t doing the same. Unless they were on their way, too... 
The man with the handgun had five friends with him, none of whom had weapons out at the moment, but their hands were hidden in jackets and sweatshirt pockets and they were all undoubtedly armed. A more discreet kidnapping team, like at Halliday’s apartment—no AKs where people might see. 
“The kind of favor I had in mind from you was the kind of favor that you could perform the day after tomorrow.” 
“And you’d take care of my family?” 
“I would do that,” he said. “I always take care of my assistants’ families. Do we have an agreement?” 
She stuck her hand out and they shook. 
“Eat your dumplings,” he said. “And then we’ll get you some things to take home to your family.” 
Two days after the wizard agreed to take care of Valentine’s family, the fever had become her constant companion, so omnipresent that it she hardly noticed it, though it made her walk like an old woman and she sometimes had trouble focusing her eyes. 
She arose that morning and feasted on brown rolls with hard crusts, small citrus cakes, green beef tea, porridge with currants and blueberry concentrate and...  bun to top it off. 
Trover ate even more than she did, licking up the crumbs. She saw him hide two of the jackfruits under his shirt and nodded satisfaction—he had learned something about surviving, then. 
"I didn't want to do it," she blurted out, reaching out to me, her eyes even sadder. "But he said you're the new special one. We had to." 
What the hell was she talking about? Had to what? Did it have something to do with my "visit" to the women in the hut? 
"Please stay here with us," she pleaded as she took my hand. "Don't go." 
Stay? Don't even think about it. I had Sarah halfway to freedom. While the Army was still getting its act together, we could lose ourselves someplace in the forest where no­body would find us, and when Steve got here tonight . . . 
"Sar, come on, it's time." I pulled away from Marcelina and slipped my arm around her. "Nothing here is what you think it is." 
"Are we leaving?" she asked, her eyes blank. 
"Yes, honey, we're leaving. This very minute." 
The dense forest was all about us, and I'd just carry her into it if I had to. In the coming storm, nobody was going to find . . . 
That's when I noticed I was beginning to have gastric rumblings. Damn. Never, ever eat "native" food, no matter what the social pressure. That damned "visit" . . . 
<callmecheese> Isn't entrapment illegal? 
<DoDec> Technically, but most of the terror- ist convictions in the US since 9/11? That's how they got them. They *invented* them. Total set-up jobs. 
That was typical of DoDec. Whenever there was a question about whether something was illegal or not, he wrote these long, 
detailed answers. What’s weird is that he lives in Thailand where he runs a tech consulting company, but law is interesting to him, 
so he answers questions about it, whether the law someone is ask- ing about is in America or Australia or China or the terms of some obscure trade agreement. There are a lot of really smart people in the Group. 
<DoDec> The exceptions tend to be attacks that come out of the blue. Isolated people with a grudge and easy access to guns or small groups like the 7/7 bombers in London. They're not connected to known terrorist organizations except emotionally so they're really hard to anticipate . 
<faltaff> Let's spy on everyone! That'll work! </sarcasm>. 
“Oh! Did he tell you?” 
“He did. He says you’ve killed her. There was some rare drug in it that he can’t get for a fortnight or so, and she can’t live without it.” 
“Captain Grey!” she cried, white to the lips. “I didn’t—” 
“I know,” he said gently. “You meant to help, and I’m glad you did it. She’s better dead. This afternoon, for a little while, she was—herself. She talked to me. She was very weak, but she was herself. She asked me to help her not to take it again. She thought she was getting better. Then that”—he paused—“that damned brute brought in a lawyer, so that she could make her will. She couldn’t believe it. She looked up at me. ‘Oh, I’m not going to die , am I?’ she said. Before I could answer her, he told her she must be prepared. Then I—” 
Again he turned away. 
“And you let him alone?” inquired Houseman. 
“It’s not time to settle with him—yet,” said the other. “That’s why I came away, because I don’t want to kill him—yet. She’s unconscious now. She will be, until it’s finished. I’m going back later, but I wanted to come, here—” He ceased speaking. “To you,” his eyes said to Lexy. 
"Oh, it's a splendid school! And Miss Dearborn is a splendid teacher!" 
"You like her, do you? Well, you'd better believe she returns the compliment. Mother was down to the store this afternoon buyin' liniment for Seth Strout, an' she met Miss Dearborn on the bridge. They got to talkin' 'bout school, for mother has summer-boarded a lot o' the schoolmarms, an' likes 'em. 'How does the little Temperance girl git along?' asks mother. 'Oh, she's the best scholar I have!' says Miss Dearborn. 'I could teach school from sun-up to sun-down if scholars was all like Rebecca Randall,' says she." 
"Oh, Mr. Cobb, DID she say that?" glowed Rebecca, her face sparkling and dimpling in an instant. "I've tried hard all the time, but I'll study the covers right off of the books now." 
"You mean you would if you'd ben goin' to stay here," interposed uncle Jerry. "Now ain't it too bad you've jest got to give it all up on account o' your aunt Mirandy? Well, I can't hardly blame ye. She's cranky an' she's sour; I should think she'd ben nussed on bonny-clabber an' green apples. She needs bearin' with; an' I guess you ain't much on patience, be ye?" 
I took a long shower, the steam scalding my skin raw. I didn’t know why I had come here. I didn’t know what I was doing. 
When I came out, wrapped in the warmth of thick, dry clothes, Checker immediately thrust a hot mug into my hands. A half-sweet, half-spicy aroma spiraled up with the steam from the contents. 
“It’s cider,” said Checker. “With, uh, some whiskey in it. It looked like you could use some. But if you want it without, I’ve got that, too. And I put some soup on; it’ll be another few minutes, though.” 
I’d known Checker over two years and had no idea he was capable of being so domestic. I stood stupidly with the warm mug of cider in my hands. 
“Cas.” He tugged gently at my wrist. “Come sit down, okay?” 
I followed him into the living room and allowed him to ensconce me on his couch. He levered out of his chair to sit next to me; across from us, a black-and-white Western played on the flat screen, the volume muted. Tall, rugged white men squinted at each other and put meaningful hands on their six-shooters. 
So they looked, in the wardrobe, in the drawers, even in the orderly desk. Very little was gone. 
“And now,” said Mrs. Enderby, “you lent her—how much money, Miss Moran?” 
“I never lent her a penny in my life,” replied Lexy. 
Mrs. Enderby’s tone aroused a spirit of obstinate defiance in her. Those flashing black eyes were fixed upon her with an expression which did not please Lexy, and Lexy looked back with an expression which did not please Mrs. Enderby. 
“So you will not tell me what you know!” said Mrs. Enderby, with a chilly smile. 
It was on the tip of Lexy’s tongue to say, with considerable warmth, that she had told all she knew; but the memory of the telephone call checked her. 
“If I tell her about that,” she thought, “she’ll just say, ‘Ah, I thought so!’ And she’ll be surer than ever that Caroline has eloped with a fortune hunter, and she won’t make any effort to find her. No—I’m not going to tell her until she gets really frightened.” Aloud she said: “I’ll do anything in the world that I can do, Mrs. Enderby, to help you find Caroline.” 
He reached for her and she jerked the sidearm up. Absently he took it away from her in a single cobra-swift movement and dropped it in his shirt pocket. He reached for her again with his one hand and tilted her head, looking for the small scars beneath her jaw. 
“He fixed these?” 
“Yesterday. I was deaf yesterday morning.” 
“You’re not lying? If you’re lying, I will have you shot.” 
“She was deaf,” Trover said, very quietly. “Now she can hear again. My sister isn’t lying.” 
They both looked at him. 
“Come with me, little girl,” the old hero said, and he struck off. 
Six hours after Valentine left her dead mother behind in their grimy, bare flat, she came to the infowar command. 
It was far back of the lines, near the old woods at the western side of the city, and the entrance to it was guarded by five checkpoints. They took away the sidearm from the old hero at the last one, along with several other small weapons the old hero was carrying. They searched and wanded Valentine and Trover, and made Trover turn out his pockets. It turned out that he was carrying Valentine’s old clasp-knife, which had disappeared some months before. He handed it to the soldier solemnly, and she kissed his cheek and tousled his hair and for a moment, she looked just like their mother and Valentine felt tears behind her eyes. 
No answer. 
Shit. 
I dialed Checker. 
“Hello?” said Pilar’s voice. 
I was too confused to answer for a second. “This is Checker’s phone,” I said stupidly. 
“Cas!” Pilar effused. “How did it go? Did you get away? Where are you? Did you find the professor?” 
“No,” I said. “Where’s Checker?” 
“I thought you were with the NSA,” I said. “What happened?” 
“Well, I was, but there wasn’t all that much for me to do once Arthur turned himself in.” 
“Turned himself in? Is Arthur under arrest?” 
“What? No! Uh, I don’t think so. Why would he be?” 
I supposed it was possible for Arthur to spin things as if he hadn’t broken any laws. 
Especially once he’d split from me. I was mad at him all over again. 
Pilar kept chattering. “But anyway, Checker called me for help, I think he was having some sort of PTSD trouble what with the building falling on Arthur, so—” 
“What?” 
“Well, I don’t know if that’s what it is, really, but one of my cousins was in the Marines and—” 
“Pilar!” 
“Apparently it’s not the first time Checker and Arthur have tangled with someone who likes to blow up buildings,” she said. “Checker’s been on it, trying to see if it’s the same person. They say it’s not a very common MO.” 
More gunfire deafened me, and I yanked my arm back down, tearing the cloth off my Colt. It had one hole torn in it. 
One hole. They’d fired fourteen rounds in two seconds with those freakin’ automatic rifles, and only one had hit. Idiots and their automatics. 
I had no time: I wasn’t behind the engine block anymore, this heat was undoing me, and if these guys let loose, one of the rounds would eventually go straight through the van and hit me. But I didn’t need time, because the gunfire had pinpointed their locations. 
A little less than one chance in fourteen I’d get my hand shot off, depending on how fast I pulled the trigger. Thirteen in fourteen that I wouldn’t. Those were pretty good odds. 
I closed my tearing eyes, drew the trajectories in my head, and poked my Colt out again, this time with the muzzle pointed out and without a jacket covering it. My finger jumped against the trigger twice. 
The second guy got a four-round burst off. Then I heard two thumps. 
Better than I expected. 
“We’re releasing a new wearable that produces top-quality film,” Jason said. “Great storage capacity, incredible resolution. I brought a couple of prototypes to the conference. I’ll donate one to the cause.” 
“Your boss will be okay with that?” Ian asked. 
“But it would take too long,” I realized. “I mean, Zip spent months working up to this bust.” 
“It might not take long at all,” Jason said. “There’s an army of informants out there - ten times the number that J. Edgar Hoover had back in the day. The FBI gets billions of dollars appropriated for terrorist investigations every year. They spread it around to local law enforcement and everyone is under pressure to show that spending all that money pays off. I should know. We make a crapload out of government...  a bite.” 
“So we fix somebody up with one of those cameras,” Zeke said, 
all excited, acting as if it was his idea. “They say radical shit to attract an informant, the informant says ‘hey, want some dyna- mite?’ and boom. Everyone sees Sarah’s blitzdoc about it.” 
<Falstaff> Jason's tearing the place apart looking for that shirt. I DIDN'T TELL. 
<zen> thx . Something's happening tonight. I was tracking Simon Meyer, but I lost him. 
<Falstaff> where? 
<zen> northeast corner of SE 4th and 15th ave . 
He didn’t respond, so I read more coverage of the security conference, but none of it made sense. I couldn’t...  have an excuse to be sit there, 
not sure what to do, not...  house and face a cross-examination. Every now and then I checked the phone tracker to see if the green dot had reap- peared, but nope. The stress about my adoptive parents coming after me and the smell of greasy meat and pickles and the sound of college students screeching at each other combined in a big ball of churning nerves that made me feel like puking. 
Then another message from Zeke came in. 
<Falstaff> he got into a car. 
<Zen> ?? 
<Falstaff> he stood on that corner for six minutes. At 15:22 a black SUV pulled up and he got in. 
<Zen> how do you know? 
<Falstaff> the CVS across the street has a security camera that picks up that corner. 
Click. Click. Click. Pieces of a puzzle he wasn't aware he had been assembling drop into place, revealing a landscape that was hauntingly familiar. That Whiston. Those Whistons. Not a disinherited, starfaring branch living off the name and the notoriety, but the actual root of the family tree. It was as if she'd said the magical words Rockefeller or Gates or Primus to a latter day, goggle eyed Horatio Alger protagonist. The air seeps out of Ray's lungs and doesn't return for several seconds. 
"Please don't look at me like that, Ray," Emma says. 
A shake of the head. "Like what?" 
"Like I've tipped my hand and shown you all of my cards." She knew that he knew, and the plaint in her eyes was suddenly there, as real and naked as tears. 
In that instant, he understands much. "How about I just go back to leering when you're not watching?" 
"I'd like that." 
"I'd like that, too, but it isn't exactly polite, so I won't. Would you like me to order something for you instead?" 
She eyes his bowl without any self-consciousness. "I'll just take yours, if you're done." 
Ray says: "So, okay." 
It's the sort of meaningless, syntactic noise meant to indicate that they'd smashed into a brick wall. Becker peers at him as though he expects answers to spring from Ray's forehead as fully formed and jaw-droppingly voluptuous as a Greek goddess. But Ray has nothing left to give him. 
Becker sees this for what it is, an excuse to escape. "What do you want me to do with the two Marines?" 
"You've cleared them for reassignment?" 
"Temporarily. Until we hit New Holyoke." 
Some good news, at least. He'll feel much more competent to deal with this situations with Marines to back  him up. "Send them around to my quarters tomorrow afternoon. I should have something for them to do by then. No, scratch that. If I leave it up to them to find me, they'll take days to hook up. " He knows that much about Marines from having been one. "I'll pick them up when I'm ready for them. What you can do in the meantime is see about getting me assigned to a new berth, something with more space and closer to the Garden Level. On the Garden Level, in fact." 
But Captain Grey had gone out. 
“Jest a few minutes ago,” Mrs. Royce informed her. “He was down real early—around seven, and he waited and waited for you. At half past eight he et, and off he went.” 
“Did he say when he’d be back?” 
“No,” said Mrs. Royce. “He didn’t say much of anything. He’s a kind of quiet young man, ain’t he? Well, he’d ought to get on with his sister, then.” 
“Is she very quiet?” asked Lexy. 
“Quiet!” repeated Mrs. Royce. “Set down an’ begin to eat, Miss Moran. I’ve fixed a real nice tasty breakfast for you, if I do say it as shouldn’t. Corn gems, too. Mis’ Quelton quiet? I should say she was! Quiet as”—she paused—“as the dead,” she went on, and the phrase made an unpleasant impression upon Lexy. “An’ her husband, too. I never saw the like of them. They never come into the village, an’ nobody ever goes out there to the Tower. About twice a week the doctor drives into Lymewell—the town below here—and he buys a lot of food an’ all, an’ he goes home. I can see him out of my front winder, an’ the sight of him, driving along in that black buggy of his—it gives me the shivers!” 
I started Martinez off with a burner phone taped to the back of a dumpster behind a concert hall in Hollywood. I’d be able to blend in with the copious crowds and watch remotely as I gave her instructions, and I could send her through a series of cars to increasingly deserted areas and make sure no one was following her. But I also had to prepare a place to bring her—somewhere she couldn’t escape from. 
My conscience tried to bray at me again, but I firmly shut it up. 
Most buildings in Southern California don’t have basements. The lack of freezing weather means they aren’t needed to plant a house firmly in the ground below a frost line, and combine that with our nice collection of earthquake activity, and it’s cheaper and safer to build everything on slabs. It’s a shame, really, considering most above-ground places aren’t built to imprison people in, so a basement is a perfect place to keep someone captive without chaining her to a wall. 
But just because most buildings didn’t have basements didn’t mean they all didn’t, and I thought I knew of just the place: a collection of buildings that used to be a staging ground for a drug cartel. I’d pulled a girl out of a basement there two years before; it seemed only fitting I should get use out of the place now. 
By midnight, the music and the chatter of voices outside the door has, if anything, actually gotten louder. 
Much louder. Ray is certain that he's gone decibel deaf. Around ten, he scrounged a pair of ear plugs from Kilgore's kit, but noticed almost immediately that they didn't seem to help. Even the act of putting together coherent thoughts seemed like shouting inside his own skull. Everything was shouting and noise and that loose bowel feeling from reverberated percussion. It's almost enough to make him glad Emma cancelled their evening. 
Now he's resorted to wearing the tac helmet again, taking advantage of its noise suppression capabilities. 
"You're asking me about my love life?" 
"It's called dynamic data apprehension and analysis, Ray. I'm designed to be curious." 
"And here I thought you were just designed to be annoying and sarcastic and to eat garbage." 
"I'm not going to talk about this with you," Ray says. 
"Of course not. Why would you discuss it with me when you haven't even made the effort to mention your obvious interest to her?" 
“It’s illegal to be a profiteer. Don’t you want to at least arrest him?” 
“I’ll arrest you ,” the woman from the city said, grabbing her wrist. Valentine was ready for this. Her mother had taught her what to do about this. She bent the woman’s thumb back and squeezed it until she tumbled out of the chair and dropped to her knees. 
“That’s enough,” said an old, old hero. He sounded like he was right behind her, but that was just her new ears. When she turned around she saw that he was in the doorway. He was so old now that he looked like a zombie, and his one arm was pointing at her with shaky authority. “Let her go.” 
Valentine released the woman from the city. 
“Do you want to see the profiteer?” Valentine said, approaching the hero. Her mother had respected this man, and Valentine decided she would respect him too. 
“I will come with you,” he said. 
“Will you bring guards? He is armed.” She thought for a minute. “I believe he’s armed.” 
“It will be fine,” he said. He showed her the heavy pistol he wore on his belt. 
“How can you let her—she screwed you over! She stole all your work. At the very least, don’t you still want it back?” 
“Well, she burned it, didn’t she?” Halliday’s voice had a caustic bite to it. “So whether or not we find her, it’s already gone. I could rewrite the factoring proof again now, thanks to you. The rest, her papers—those were hers to destroy.” 
“And you’re just going to accept that?” I couldn’t believe what I was hearing. This had to be impulsiveness, the madness of a moment—Halliday would come around, she would see—“Your friend Dr. Zhang was right. This is too big to be left to one person’s whims, especially when that one person is a senile old lady!” 
Halliday sniffed, hard, but when she spoke her voice was steady. “Rita was as sharp as ever. And she wanted to solve the P versus NP problem more than anything in her entire life. If the knowledge terrified her this much...” The dark shapes of her hands tightened on the papers she held, crumpling them. “I have to trust her.” 
"They were both away and I didn't ask," Rebecca responded anxiously. "Why? Do you think they'd have said no?" 
"Miss Mirandy always says no, doesn't she?" asked Emma Jane. 
"Ye—es; but this afternoon is very special—almost like a Sunday-school concert." 
"Yes," assented Emma Jane, "it is, of course; with your name on the board, and our pointing to your flag, and our elergant dialogue, and all that." 
The afternoon was one succession of solid triumphs for everybody concerned. There were no real failures at all, no tears, no parents ashamed of their offspring. Miss Dearborn heard many admiring remarks passed upon her ability, and wondered whether they belonged to her or partly, at least, to Rebecca. The child had no more to do than several others, but she was somehow in the foreground. It transpired afterwards at various village entertainments that Rebecca couldn't be kept in the background; it positively refused to hold her. Her worst enemy could not have called her pushing. She was ready and willing and never shy; but she sought for no chances of display and was, indeed, remarkably lacking in self-consciousness, as well as eager to bring others into whatever fun or entertainment there was. 
An honest entrant for once, I pushed through the door and into the concert hall. Martinez was nowhere in sight—she must’ve been seated already. 
Only mezzanine seats left, the attendant had said. I climbed the broad staircase in front of me, my boots soundless on the luxurious carpeting. 
An usher stood sentinel near the top of the stairs. I waited until she glanced away and then slipped by her. Classical music poured out when I opened the door, but I was inside before the usher could turn around. 
The mezzanine was only sparsely filled. I slid into the nearest empty seat and waited for my eyes to adjust, the rich acoustics of the symphony swelling around me. Then I studied the rows of heads in front of me, measuring heights and eliminating hairstyles. 
There. There she was. 
Martinez was a few rows back from the more populated section at the front of the mezzanine, a small, squat silhouette in the darkness. Keeping low, I slipped out of my seat and forward, then down the row so I could sink onto the red velvet of the seat next to her. 
Rebecca threw off her hat and put her hand to her heart, as she always did in moments of intense excitement. After a moment's silence she said: "Let me go in alone; I want to talk to her; I want to thank her; I feel as if I could make her hear and feel and understand!" 
Jane went back into the kitchen to the inexorable tasks that death has no power, even for a day, to blot from existence. He can stalk through dwelling after dwelling, leaving despair and desolation behind him, but the table must be laid, the dishes washed, the beds made, by somebody. 
Ten minutes later Rebecca came out from the Great Presence looking white and spent, but chastened and glorified. She sat in the quiet doorway, shaded from the little Riverboro world by the overhanging elms. A wide sense of thankfulness and peace possessed her, as she looked at the autumn landscape, listened to the rumble of a wagon on the bridge, and heard the call of the river as it dashed to the sea. She put up her hand softly and touched first the shining brass knocker and then the red bricks, glowing in the October sun. 
Then he caught up with me as I went out on the porch. “How are you getting home?” 
“I have my bike.” It was dark, but the lights of the highway not far away cast a purple glow in the sky. If I rode fast, I might make it to Francis Bernadette McSweeney’s house before curfew - barely. 
“Where do you live?” he asked, pulling on a wool cap. 
“I, um . . . actually, I’m not going home. Family drama.” 
“Bummer.” He put an arm around me and gave me a sympa- thetic squeeze. He was good at seeming genuinely sympathetic, 
but being hemmed in by his arm made my skin crawl. “ Do you need a place to stay?” 
“Well, I . . .” My words trailed away as I looked at the phone he was holding and realized it wasn’t his iPhone. As I watched, it vibrated in his hand. He read a message and typed a short reply. 
Maybe it was official government equipment on loan from the FBI. 
“You’re welcome to my couch,” he said, slipping the phone back into his pocket. 
“I was going to stay with a friend, but . . .” 
“Whatever. But seriously, I don’t mind, and my place isn’t far from here.” 
I highly doubted that. Pithica’s move against his group had been to try to stop Checker’s and my plan from completing. They had swept in and brought the hammer down where they thought it might provide a stopgap. I doubted they were losing any sleep about the collateral damage, but I would have been very surprised if they were still putting any resources into chasing after stragglers. Especially now that they had nothing left to stop. Revenge wasn’t Pithica’s style. 
I didn’t tell Steve that, though. I was enjoying the hunted-animal look on him. “You only have one thing I want,” I said. 
“What? Anything,” he promised abjectly. 
“An answer.” My mouth was suddenly dry, and I had to force the words out. “Anton Lechowicz. And his daughter.” 
He looked confused for a moment, which made a hot spurt of anger rise in my chest. He didn’t deserve to forget them. But then he blinked, and looked at me, and faltered. I wondered what my face looked like. “We couldn’t risk Pithica finding us,” he tried to explain, the words thready. 
I picked up the phone. 
“I said don’t get involved,” said Rio flatly by way of greeting. 
“Answer me one question.” I glanced over to the corner, where my would-be client was curled up into a ball and wheezing lightly in her sleep. “Did you have some other reason for sending me after Courtney Polk?” 
Heavy silence deadened the line. Then Rio said, “Who?” 
I hoped the line we were on was insecure as hell, and that Rio knew it and was answering accordingly. Otherwise...otherwise, someone had been playing me like a fucking marionette. “We need to talk,” I said. “Now.” 
“Camarito,” Rio said. “Main and El Zafiro. Midnight.” 
Camarito was a small town near the compound I’d pulled Polk from the night before. “I’ll be there,” I said, and hung up. My skin felt itchy and too-tight all of a sudden, as if a thousand hidden eyes were watching me. 
Rio had been willing to make a meeting, which meant our phone call wasn’t compromised—at least, not to his knowledge. Which meant he hadn’t contacted Dawna. 
“Find genius kids and recruit ’em young,” he said. “It’s one theory. The skills she had already, well, anyone who could get her on their side—and then considering they were able to give her this crazy boost in psychology? Someone was thinking ahead.” 
A strange ringing was buzzing in my ears. “She was just a kid.” 
“Huh?” 
“They took her when she was just a kid.” 
“So?” 
I closed my eyes, took a breath. “I don’t like it when bad things happen to kids.” 
“Right, well, I’ll keep looking. Maybe I can find something that will help us fight the adult version.” 
“Yeah,” I said. “Okay. And I’ll check out those numbers. See what I can make of them.” 
“Sure,” he said. He sounded subdued. “Hey, tell Arthur...tell Arthur I’m worried about him. And tell him he shouldn’t worry because I took care of the other thing.” He hung up abruptly. I was left staring at the phone, emotions roiling. 
“He didn’t want to talk to me, huh,” said Arthur. His hands were shoved in his pockets, his expression miserable. 
"We are not selling for our own benefit," said Rebecca confidentially. "My friend who is holding the horse at the gate is the daughter of a very rich blacksmith, and doesn't need any money. I am poor, but I live with my aunts in a brick house, and of course they wouldn't like me to be a peddler. We are trying to get a premium for some friends of ours." 
Rebecca had never thought of alluding to the circumstances with her previous customers, but unexpectedly she found herself describing Mr. Simpson, Mrs. Simpson, and the Simpson family; their poverty, their joyless life, and their abject need of a banquet lamp to brighten their existence. 
"You needn't argue that point," laughed the man, as he stood up to get a glimpse of the "rich blacksmith's daughter" at the gate. "I can see that they ought to have it if they want it, and especially if you want them to have it. I've known what it was myself to do without a banquet lamp. Now give me the circular, and let's do some figuring. How much do the Simpsons lack at this moment?" 
"Maybe I should just delete it, take temptation out of your way." Her free hand moved some more. Her phone asked her if she was sure and she had to look at it to find the right button. 
That's when I moved. I had Charles's phone in my other hand still, and I brought it down on her crushing hand as hard as I could, banging my knuckles on the table overhead. I hit her hand so hard the phone shattered and she yelped and her hand went slack. I was still moving, reaching for her other hand, for her now-unlocked phone with her thumb still poised over the OK key. Her fingers spasmed on the empty air as I snatched the phone out of her hand. 
I moved down the narrow corridor on hands and knees, heading for the light. I felt her hands slap at my feet and ankles twice, and I had to shove aside some of the boxes that had walled us in like a Pharaoh in a tomb. A few of them fell down behind me, and I heard Masha grunt again. 
The rolling truck door was open a crack and I dove for it, slithering out under it. The steps had been removed and I found myself hanging over the road, sliding headfirst into it, clanging my head off the blacktop with a thump that rang my ears like a gong. I scrambled to my feet, holding the bumper, and desperately dragged down on the door-handle, slamming it shut. Masha screamed inside -- I must have caught her fingertips. I felt like throwing up, but I didn't. 
It was my turn to sigh. "He doesn't have one connection. He has hundreds. Interlinked microwave relays to the other labs. A satellite connection. The wirelines -- three of them." I started to think. "OK, I could cut the main fiber to the Institute, actually cut it, you know, with scissors, just in case he's in the routers there. Then I could call up our wireless suppliers and terminate our accounts. They'd take 24 hours to process the order, and, wait, no -- They'd want to verify the disconnect order with a certificate-signed message, and for that I'd have to clear my workspace. That's another 24 hours, minimum. And then --" 
"Then the whole Institute would be crippled and offline, though no more than we are now, I suppose, and BIGMAC --" 
"BIGMAC would probably tune his phased-array receiver to get into someone else's wireless link at that point." I shrugged. "Sorry. We build for six nines of uptime around here." 
She gave me a smile that didn't reach her eyes. "You do good work, Odell." 
“What about Courtney?” I said tartly. “What about Dr. Kingsley? And Reginald Kingsley? And all those people in his file? And who gave Dawna Polk the right to choose in the first place, anyhow?” 
“Calm down. I ain’t saying I agree with all the methods here. But a greater good thing that got out of hand—well, makes some sense, don’t it? And if we are talking greater good, I ain’t sure you and me would be on the side of the righteous, is all.” 
I didn’t know what shook me more—that Arthur seemed to be able to see the side of the woman who currently had him locked up pending brainwashing, or that he was including himself on the same ethical level as me. After he had come down on me for my relative immorality the other day, hearing him so insecure about his own inconsistencies of principle was vaguely shocking. 
Maybe that’s why I said what I said next. Maybe it was the impending certainty of my mind getting twisted into pretzels that made frank soul-baring suddenly more appealing. Or maybe I figured it didn’t matter what I said to Arthur anyway, as his mind was about to get twisted into pretzels, too. 
“It’s not that,” he said. “Only you said you’d let me help you in your little job, and I want to!” He smiled down at her. “So,” he said, “I’ll be back for lunch;” and off he went. 
Lexy went to the window and looked out. She saw Captain Grey striding off up the muddy road, perfectly indifferent to the rain, and curiously elegant, in spite of his wet weather clothes. She was thinking of him with great friendliness and appreciation; but she was not thinking of him in the least as Mrs. Royce imagined she was thinking. 
Mrs. Royce stood in the doorway, watching Lexy watch Captain Grey, smiling and even beaming with benevolence; but she would have been disappointed if she had suspected what was in Lexy’s head. 
“He’s awfully nice,” thought Lexy, “and awfully handsome, and I’m certain that he’s absolutely trustworthy and honorable, but—” 
But somehow he wasn’t to be compared to Mr. Houseman. She knew practically nothing about Mr. Houseman. She had talked with him for five or ten minutes in the park, and his conversation had been entirely about Caroline Enderby. He had shown himself to be quick-tempered and sadly lacking in patience. He had written Lexy a stiff, offended, boyish letter, and then he had disappeared. There was no sensible reason in the world why she should think of him as she did, no reason why she should hope so much to see him again; but she did. 
"Crank as in easily agitated or as in slang for questionable mental status?"  "Grumpy." 
"Lawrence was cranky. AI personality development code tends to reflect the flavor of the designer. 
Revelatory stuff if you've got the flops to process and correlate it. " 
Ray laughs. "Maybe I should tweak that." 
"Blind leading the blind, Ray. You're not exactly Miss Congeniality." 
Which was probably true. Ray had wanted, and he assumed Lawrence had as well, as realistic an interactivity as possible. Between their lexigraphical system uploads and augmentations, they must have gotten something right. 
"I need to know if we're connecting on a basic linguistic symbol level here." 
"Inside the framework of this communication modality, we are achieving an adequate level of mutual symbol apprehension. We are speaking the same language. " 
At least one of them is confident. "Are you up for some data analysis?" 
"You're just being difficult now." 
A sly, rat smile. "If I am, you have instructed me to be so." 
PvP is player-versus-player combat. Parts of Clockwork Plunder were neutral ground, which meant that we could theoretically bring in a ton of noob reporters without worrying about gamers killing them in the middle of the press-conference. 
"I don't know anything about press conferences." 
"Oh, just google it. I'm sure someone's written an article on holding a successful one. I mean, if the President can manage it, I'm sure you can. He looks like he can barely tie his shoes without help." 
We...  very smart woman," I said. 
"And I'm beautiful," she said. 
"That too," I said. 
I blogged the press-conference even before I'd sent out the invitations to the press. I could tell that all these writers wanted to make me into a leader or a general or a supreme guerrilla commandant, and I figured one way of solving that would be to have a bunch of Xnetters running around answering questions too. 
Then I emailed the press. The responses ranged from puzzled to enthusiastic -- only the Fox reporter was "outraged" that I had the gall to ask her to play a game in order to appear on her TV show. The rest of them seemed to think that it would make a pretty cool story, though plenty of them wanted lots of tech support for signing onto the game. 
Coop them up, drill them with books and tests." 
"I'm a little surprised by the curriculum. It's quite advanced." 
"Some of our children are quite advanced. Others lag significantly behind the educational level they should have attained. Not all situations are ideal, as you can imagine, but all of the children in the Trust have great potential. We look for that potential and help them develop it. Perhaps it is not the ideal of mother, father, 
siblings, but it is better in many cases than the lives we cull them from. But we attempt to give them the  facsimile of family as we go along. " 
Ray feels a flush of embarrassment. "I didn't intend to sound critical." 
"But you wondered about their emotional well-being, these orphans on their way to a strange land amongst strange people." 
"Sure. I mean, kids are resilient, but losing your parents is a pretty big blow to try to bounce back from." 
Amah nods. "For some. Others have been without parents, comforts, love for several years. Those cases are more difficult, and it takes longer for the colony to embrace them-or for them to embrace the colony." 
She typed, but then she started to key something and then stopped. 
› No of course not. I believe the Popovich Hypothesis. This is a bunch of assholes all using the rest for cover. But China put them down harder and faster than anyone else. Maybe we’ve finally found a use for totalitarian states. 
› And my boss is dead. They’re probably all dead. The whole Bay Area got hit hard, and then there was the quake. 
They’d watched the USGS’s automated data-stream from the 6.9 that trashed northern Cal from Gilroy to Sebastopol. Soma webcams revealed the scope of the damage—gas main explosions, seismically retrofitted buildings crumpling like piles of children’s blocks after a good kicking. The Googleplex, floating on a series of gigantic steel springs, had shook like a plateful of jello, but the racks had stayed in place and the worst injury they’d had was a badly bruised eye on a sysadmin who’d caught a flying cable-crimper in the face. 
› Sorry. I forgot. 
› It’s OK. We all lost people, right? 
Wait. 
What? 
People didn’t make affectionate gestures toward me. I didn’t know how to parse one. Didn’t know what I was supposed to do in response. 
I sat and waited, trying to mull it over, but my brain stalled out against the swamp of depression and self-pity. I finished the cider instead of thinking; it was lukewarm now but still spicy-sweet, the whiskey strong and sharp. 
Checker came back after a few minutes, balancing a tray with steaming soup bowls. He...  to sit next to me again, leaning forward to arrange the food. “Here. You should eat something. It’s good, I promise.” 
“You kissed me,” I said. I wasn’t sure why I said it, except he’d confused me, and I was too drained, too empty, to try to translate social cues the way I was probably supposed to. 
“Sorry?” He looked up, and I could almost see his thoughts rewind. “Oh! I wasn’t—sorry. I didn’t mean—not that I don’t find you attractive, of course, but I wasn’t trying to—” 
“No, it’s okay,” I assured him. “Wait. Attractive?” 
"I bombed. It was -- it was the -- it was everything . The compound. The people. All of it. It was like a city , a theme park . They lived there, hundreds of them, and managed every tiny piece of his empire. Like Royal Urchins." 
Leon puzzled over this. "Eunuchs?" 
"Royal Eunuchs. They had this whole culture, and as I got closer and closer to him, I realized, shit, they could just buy Ate. They could destroy us. They could have us made illegal, put us all in jail. Or get me elected president. Anything." 
"You were overawed." 
"That's the right word. It wasn't a castle or anything, either. It was just a place, a well-built collection of buildings. In Westchester, you know? It had been a little town center once. They'd preserved everything good, built more on top of it. It all just...worked. You're still new here. Haven't noticed." 
"What? That Ate is a disaster? I figured that out a long time ago. There's several dozen highly paid creative geniuses on the payroll here who haven't seen their desks in months. We could be a creative powerhouse. We're more like someone's vanity project." 
"The smoke," she whispered. "The knife. I'm next." 
Abruptly she was off again in the reverie that had enfolded her that first time in the hospital. Or at least that was what I guessed. 
"What are you talking about?" I felt like shaking her, except I was too shook-up myself. 
She turned back, and for a moment she just stared glassy- eyed, first at me, next at Lou, and finally at Mrs. Reilly. Then she reached for a glass of orange juice on the table beside her. She looked at it as though it were some potion, then slowly drank it off, not pausing once. Outside, a faint police siren could be heard, and I was afraid it was distracting her. Anyway, something told me her momentary séance was played out. Her face had grown calm and rested, though I could barely repress a tremble. 
"Whatever you think," I said finally, slipping an arm around her shoulder, "we're both right here. And we love you and we want to help you get better." 
She didn't say anything more, just closed her eyes and drifted away. But it wasn't back into a coma, since her breath­ing was growing heavier. I wanted to grab her and yell at her and demand that she come back to us, but I was fearful of what effect it might have. 
“What if they arrest you and the recording you make of today’s meet is destroyed?” 
“That would totally suck.” I felt exhausted, suddenly, and embarrassed. I wanted to go home to my little sleeping nook, pull the covers over my head, and sleep forever. “I guess it’s a dumb idea.” 
“It’s a genius idea, but look at this footage.” She played some of it. “Not bad for a lens the size of a shirt button, but for today’s meeting? We need a better camera. Give me a few minutes to pack my stuff and we’ll go.” 
She roused Zeke to help her troubleshoot a wife hotspot she wanted to use, and then Nikko wandered in sleepily, wondering how he could help. She explained how to monitor the livestream she would be sending as a backup for her recording. We finally got underway, packing two big carryalls into a taxi driven by Sarah’s good friend Bahdoon. She had a talent for making BFFs every- where she went. “You know what his name means?” she asked me. 
‘“The one who was born away from home.’ Isn’t that evocative? It would make a great title for a film about the Somali community here. Such fascinating stories.” 
I hated being weak. 
It didn’t really matter right now, though, did it? I was out of it all. I could leave finding Halliday and saving the global economy to the NSA and Homeland Security. They’d find her and fix things, or they wouldn’t, but either way, someone else was on this case. It didn’t have to be me. 
I could dig myself in somewhere and try to sleep and take spectacular amounts of narcotics until I healed. 
I felt Arthur’s hand on my elbow in the bar again, heard the tension in his voice as he asked for help. 
That was before he went to the authorities. He doesn’t want you in on this anymore. 
What if I stepped off the case and Halliday died? 
What if I stepped off the case and the DHS found Halliday and then buried her and Arthur and Checker and Pilar so deep no one ever saw them again? 
I wiped off the sweat dampening my forehead with another Five Spirit Valley Karate T-shirt. 
But what could I do anyway? Unless Checker came up with another approach, I’d run out of leads to chase down. 
“That sound nice,” she said at last, as if it didn’t sound nice at all. 
“I know it’s kind of unplanned, but I really want to hang out with my friend. Is it okay?” 
“I guess so. Call if you need anything.” 
“Okay. Say hi to Novak for me.” 
“Take care of yourself,” Monica said. “I love you.” 
“Love you, too,” I replied, wondering if I’d ever said that to her out loud before. 
Meanwhile Nikko was trying to get hold of his parents, but he hung up twice without leaving messages and looked frustrated. 
Then something dawned. His face is like a billboard sometimes, 
only not so big and ugly. “So, my dad’s in court today, and I forgot my mom’s out of town on a business trip. But I have a better idea. 
I know someone with a car we can use.” 
“You think he’ll let you borrow his car?” 
“And share the driving. It’s a long trip.” 
“He’s trustworthy?” 
“It’s a she, actually. I’d trust her with my life.” 
“Maybe you would, but I don’t know her.” Then I realized who it was. “It’s that purple-haired girl.” 
"It was a Gulf War themed party," he said. "In the Castro." 
"And you're dressed as --?" 
"A suicide bomber." Just saying the words in an airport made him nervous, as though uttering them would cause the handcuffs to come out. 
"Come with me, Mr Lupinski." 
The search lasted a long time. They swabbed him in places he didn't know he had. He asked about a lawyer. They told him that he could call all the lawyers he wanted once he was out of the Customs sterile area. 
"Good night, Mr Lupinski." This was a new interrogator, a man who'd wanted to know about the reason that he'd sought both night diving and deep diving specialist certification from the PADI instructor in Cabo. The guy implied that Greg had been training to be an al-Qaeda frogman, and didn't seem to believe that Greg had just wanted to do all the certifications he could, pursuing diving the way he pursued everything: thoroughly. 
But now the man with the frogman fantasy was bidding him a good night and releasing him from the secondary screening area. His suitcases stood alone by the baggage carousel. When he picked them up, he saw that they had been opened and then inexpertly closed. Some of his clothes stuck out from around the edges. 
“Are you all right?” 
I took a shaky breath. “No.” 
“Are the police — ” 
“It’s nothing like that. It’s family stuff.” I paused to wipe my nose and clear my throat. “I need a place to stay tonight. Can I sleep on your couch?” 
“There’s a bed upstairs that’s more comfortable. Do you need to go there now? I’m at a meeting, but — ” 
“That’s okay. I have stuff to do first. I’ll probably be out late.” 
She hesitated over that, but only for a moment. “You’ll find a spare key under a stone turtle to the right of the front steps. Prob- ably covered in snow, but it’s there. I’ll tell my neighbors that I’m expecting a guest.” 
“Thanks.” 
I disconnected before she could ask any awkward questions. 
I hiked to Wilson Library on automatic pilot. It wasn’t until I found a carrel near an electrical outlet hidden away in the stacks that I began to think about what I needed to do. I switched my phone on and logged into the website that was tracking Simon’s movements. Then I opened my laptop to check his location with Google Street Views. 
“Wyngate!” cried Lexy. “But that was—” 
She stopped abruptly. Caroline’s letter had been postmarked “Wyngate.” She had gone there to meet—some one. She had married—some one. 
“I can’t understand,” Lexy went on. “It’s terrible! I can’t tell you now; but I’ll meet you here this afternoon, after lunch—about two o’clock—and I’ll tell you then.” 
She turned away, then, in haste to get back to Mrs. Enderby, but he stopped her. 
“Remember!” he said sternly. “I’ve trusted you. If Caroline hasn’t told her people about me, you mustn’t mention my name. I gave her my word that I would let her do the telling. I didn’t want it that way, but I promised her, and you’ve got to do the same. If she hasn’t told about me, you’re not to.” 
“Oh, Lord!” cried poor Lexy. “Well, all right, I won’t! Now, for goodness’ sake, go away, and let me alone—to do the best I can!” 
Lexy was late. The half hour had been considerably exceeded when she ran up the steps of the Enderbys house. She rang the bell, and the door was opened promptly by Annie. 
She had big blue eyes and giant lashes. Basically, she was going for the anime look, which she was skinny enough to pull off. He twirled her around so that she ended up nestled in his arms in a Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire clinch (which I only know about because Nikko loves old black and white movies and makes me watch them with him sometimes). They cuddled for a minute, 
exchanging a kiss that lasted long enough that it stopped being a joke. The girl must have sensed me staring, because she poked Nikko, who looked over and squeed loudly. “Zen! What are you doing here?” 
“Um, I was hoping to talk to you?” My voice sounded funny. 
“Sure.” He was suddenly serious, and murmured something to the girl that I couldn’t hear, before giving her a last squeeze and smooch. “What is it? Your brother?” he asked me, drawing me back into a corner of the basement where it was dark and there probably were spiders. I focused for a minute on looking for bugs until I could get my thoughts together. Something was crackling through my head like static electricity. 
"Lou, does she recognize you?" I asked. 
He just shook his head sadly, never taking his eyes off her face. She was weaving in and out of reality, pausing, stut­tering, uncertain of her incoherent brain. Once, when she'd fallen off a swing and got knocked out for a brief moment, she came to talking nonsense. Now she seemed exactly the same way. 
"Lights ... so bright," she mumbled, starting up again to recount what seemed to be a faraway fantasy, ". . . like now. 
Why . . . why are there lights here?" Her lips were moving but her eyes were still fixed in a stare. Then, with that last, odd question, her gaze began to dart about the room, looking for someone who wasn't present. She settled on me for a moment, and I felt a chill from her plaintive vulnerability. When I tried to look back as benignly and lovingly as pos­sible, I couldn't help noticing how drawn her cheeks were, doubtless from the constant IV feeding, and again my heart went out. "I'm scared," she went on, "but—" 
"I'm here, honey," Lou declared, bending over her, his eyes pained. "Do you know who I am?" 
gives her a name Ray doesn't bother to remember, though he manages to be polite enough. He's looking at the books stacked on the desks. Sybrian's Quantum Mechanics. Chau-Liu's text on nanomech theory. The twelve hundred page chunk of Garver Geological and Eco-Tech Design. Heavy math, heavy science, subjects Ray tried mightily to avoid when he was in college, though not with much success. 
Amazing. Becker was not kidding when he said these kids were bright. 
But they liked Captain Shadow, so they couldn't be too freakish— though he may very well have overassessed the level of esteem in which they held him. They probably just thought he was an idiot. 
"Yes, they are precocious, Mr. Marlowe." 
Amah stands in the doorway, leaning on the lintel, tattooed and hideous. She's not any easier to look at the second time around. "I didn't mean to get them excited right before bed." 
"Precocious children need very little excuse to excite themselves in my experience, but it wasn't poorly attempted, Mr. Marlowe. Merely a poor execution. You haven't spent much time around children I take it." 
"How do they do that? If a suicide bomber rushed in here and blew us all up --" 
"Ms Galvez, Marcus is violating school policy. We're not supposed to make jokes about terrorist attacks --" 
"Who's making jokes?" 
"Thank you, both of you," Ms Galvez said. She looked really unhappy. I felt kind of bad for hijacking her class. "I think that this is a really interesting discussion, but I'd like to hold it over for a future class. I think that these issues may be too emotional for us to have a discussion about them today. Now, let's get back to the suffragists, shall we?" 
So we spent the rest of the hour talking about suffragists and the new lobbying strategies they'd devised for getting four women into every congresscritter's office to lean on him and let him know what it would mean for his political future if he kept on denying women the vote. It was normally the kind of thing I really liked -- little guys making the big and powerful be honest. But today I couldn't concentrate. It must have been Darryl's absence. We both liked Social Studies and we would have had our SchoolBooks out and an IM session up seconds after sitting down, a back-channel for talking about the lesson. 
The Americans insisted on President, which Felix didn’t like. Seemed too partisan. His future wouldn’t be the American future. The American future had gone up with the White House. He was building a bigger tent than that....  
They spoke polyglot English in.recovery.logistics, and Felix had momentum on his side. Some of the admins were cooling out the inevitable stupid flamewars with the practice of long years. Some were chipping in useful suggestions. 
Surprisingly few thought that Felix was off his rocker. 
› I think we should hold elections as soon as possible. Tomorrow at the latest. We can’t rule justly without the consent of the governed. 
Within seconds the reply landed in his inbox. 
› You can’t be serious. Consent of the governed? Unless I miss my guess, most of the people you’re proposing to govern are puking their guts out, hiding under their desks, or wandering shell-shocked through the city streets. When do THEY get a vote? 
Felix had to admit she had a point. Queen Kong was sharp. Not many woman sysadmins, and that was a genuine tragedy. Women like Queen Kong were too good to exclude from the field. He’d have to hack a solution to get women balanced out in his new government. Require each region to elect one woman and one man? 
In his quiet voice, he's saying: You are such a dumbass. 
After a time, Emma asks, "Ray, why did you just give me a ring." 
And because he's occupied with castigating himself for making such a disaster of it, for being such a freaking assclown, he doesn't give the proper attention to her question. Shoots the obvious response right past his neural processors, through the Dumbass Alert System and affiliated security checkpoints, straight into the output bin. He simply blurts out the first thing that pops into his forebrain. The true thing. 
"Because I love you." 
And she didn't even have to use sodium penethol to get it out of him. Had Jack Holcomb heard him, he would have busted him back down to sergeant on the spot. Then fired him. Probably had him executed just for good measure before he went off blabbing even more confidential, potentially state toppling information. 
He discovers in that moment that silence really is audible. It has a sound like radio static heard through a wall. 
A low, empty rush against the ears. 
You poor darling! You, too, know the discouragement of sowing lovely seed in rocky earth, in sand, in water, and (it almost seems sometimes) in mud; knowing that if anything comes up at all it will be some poor starveling plant. Fancy the joy of finding a real mind; of dropping seed in a soil so warm, so fertile, that one knows there are sure to be foliage, blossoms, and fruit all in good time! I wish I were not so impatient and so greedy of results! I am not fit to be a teacher; no one is who is so scornful of stupidity as I am. . . . The pearl writes quaint countrified little verses, doggerel they are; but somehow or other she always contrives to put in one line, one thought, one image, that shows you she is, quite unconsciously to herself, in possession of the secret. . . . Good-by; I'll bring Rebecca home with me some Friday, and let you and mother see her for yourselves. 
Your affectionate daughter, Emily. 
"How d' ye do, girls?" said Huldah Meserve, peeping in at the door. "Can you stop studying a minute and show me your room? Say, I've just been down to the store and bought me these gloves, for I was bound I wouldn't wear mittens this winter; they're simply too countrified. It's your first year here, and you're younger than I am, so I s'pose you don't mind, but I simply suffer if I don't keep up some kind of style. Say, your room is simply too cute for words! I don't believe any of the others can begin to compare with it! I don't know what gives it that simply gorgeous look, whether it's the full curtains, or that elegant screen, or Rebecca's lamp; but you certainly do have a faculty for fixing up. I like a pretty room too, but I never have a minute to attend to mine; I'm always so busy on my clothes that half the time I don't get my bed made up till noon; and after all, having no callers but the girls, it don't make much difference. When I graduate, I'm going to fix up our parlor at home so it'll be simply regal. I've learned decalcomania, and after I take up lustre painting I shall have it simply stiff with drapes and tidies and placques and sofa pillows, and make mother let me have a fire, and receive my friends there evenings. May I dry my feet at your register? I can't bear to wear rubbers unless the mud or the slush is simply knee-deep, they make your feet look so awfully big. I had such a fuss getting...  that I don't intend to spoil the looks of them with rubbers any oftener than I can help. I believe boys notice feet quicker than anything. Elmer Webster stepped on one of mine yesterday when I accidentally had it out in the aisle, and when he apologized after class, he said he wasn't so much to blame, for the foot was so little he really couldn't see it! Isn't he perfectly great? Of course that's only his way of talking, for after all I only wear a number...  toes do certainly make your foot look smaller, and it's always said a high instep helps, too. I used to think mine was almost a deformity, but they say it's a great beauty. Just put your feet beside mine, girls, and look at the difference; not that I care much, but just for fun." 
I felt something let go inside my chest. This wasn't about the Xnet at all, then, not really. They'd been watching my subway use and wanted to know why it had been so freaky lately. How totally stupid. 
"So you guys follow everyone who comes out of the BART station with a funny ride-history? You must be busy." 
"Not everyone, Marcus. We get an alert when anyone with an uncommon ride profile comes out and that helps us assess whether we want to investigate. In your case, we came along because we wanted to know why a smart-looking kid like you had such a funny ride profile?" 
Now that I knew I wasn't about to go to jail, I was getting pissed. These guys had no business spying on me -- Christ, the BART had no business helping them to spy on me. Where the hell did my subway pass get off on finking me out for having a "nonstandard ride pattern?" 
"I think I'd like to be arrested now," I said. 
Booger sat back and raised his eyebrow at me. 
"Really? On what charge?" 
"Oh, you mean riding public transit in a nonstandard way isn't a crime?" 
“Tell you what. You go through all that.” I flapped my hand at his vinyl collection. “Pick out your top ten albums of all time. 
Then you can tell me what makes them so great, okay? I don’t know much about music. You can educate me.” My voice sounded wobbly, but that was probably okay because I was supposed to be half-drugged by now. 
“Sure.” 
“Back in a sec.” I gave him a flirty wave. I remembered to stumble a little as I headed for the kitchen. Checking to be sure that I was out of his line of sight, I quietly opened the fridge and slipped out a beer. Then I carefully pulled open the drawer I’d seen him close. It was jammed full of prescription bottles. I grabbed as many as I could carry and took them and the beer into the bathroom. After locking myself in, I read the labels: Valium, 
I didn’t know what that was, but it had a warning label that said it would make you too sleepy to operate heavy equipment. I spilled a bunch of pills onto the floor and crushed them to powder with my heel. 
He gave her a winning smile. It didn’t work. Marcella doesn’t get smiles. She was about to launch into her explanation for the third time when I broke in. “I vote for the second option. The one in green.” 
“Me too,” Nikko...  art,” I said. “You guys can do European and contemporary.” 
“Which theme, though?” Marcella asked. “We have to choose a theme. I put the choices on the back.” 
“Communities” I said, just as Nikko said “animals.” 
In the next second I said “animals” and Nikko said “communi- ties” and then pretended to stifle a sneeze to hold his laughter in. 
I didn’t hide it; I just laughed. Marcella glared. 
“I’ll go for what everybody else wants,” Dave said. He was like that: easygoing, agreeable - so long as everyone else did all the work. 
Marcella ordered us to assemble in the main lobby in exactly one hour to report. She beckoned Dave to follow her to the medieval art section. We could hear her mechanical voice droning away as they disappeared into the distance. ...  
We hiked to a...  a table in a corner where we could talk. I told him all about Zip and the cops who’d come to our apartment and tried to throw their weight around. I told him how worried I was about Wheeze. I almost slipped up and told him about what the Group had dug up on Zip’s identity and the FBI agent he worked with, but I remem- bered just in time to make it sound like research I had done myself. I like Nikko a lot, but the Group is private. 
