“Sort of,” I said. “The ticket is, we’ve always thought factorization was a hard problem, but we’ve never actually known it was hard. Nobody’d ever proven it was.” 
Arthur frowned. “Why’s everyone use it, then? Seems kind of unwise.” 
“Not that unwise. A lot of really smart people had been working on the problem of integer factorization for a very long time, and nobody’d come up with a fast way of doing it. Key word being ‘fast’—we can do it; it just takes years, far too long to be useful in code-breaking. So building an encryption algorithm based on the fact that nobody’d ever discovered a way to do this quickly, well, it was actually pretty genius.” 
“Except Sonya found a way,” said Arthur. 
“Yeah.” I still couldn’t believe it. As grave as the situation was, part of me was ravenous just to read her proof. “Yeah, she thinks she did.” 
“And you say everything runs on this math.” 
“Yeah. Checker might know better than I would where all it’s being used, but I’m pretty sure it’s across the board. Every financial transaction people send electronically. Our whole economy, national security, all of it.” 
"But how do we do that? People just don't care enough about their privacy to surf the net through an encrypted link. They don't see why it matters if eavesdroppers know what they're googling for." 
"Yeah, but web-pages are small amounts of traffic. If we got people to routinely download a few giant encrypted files every day, that would create as much ciphertext as thousands of web-pages." 
"You're talking about indienet," I said. 
"You got it," he said. 
indienet -- all lower case, always -- was the thing that made Pigspleen Net into one of the most successful independent ISPs in the world. Back when the major record labels started suing their fans for downloading their music, a lot of the independent labels and their artists were aghast. How can you make money by suing your customers? 
Pigspleen's founder had the answer: she opened up a deal for any act that wanted to work with their fans instead of fighting them. Give Pigspleen a license to distribute your music to its customers and it would give you a share of the subscription fees based on how popular your music was. For an indie artist, the big problem isn't piracy, it's obscurity: no one even cares enough about your tunes to steal 'em. 
I lowered the Smith & Wesson slowly and placed it on the cement floor, keeping my hands away from my body as I stood back up, wondering just how far Dawna Polk’s powers went. 
“Really, Ms. Russell?” said Dawna, a hint of humor in her voice. 
“It was worth a try,” I said aloud, and reached around to untuck the Glock and the TEC-9 from my belt and leave them on the ground, too. 
“Everything,” said Dawna. “I must say, it’s almost as if you doubt me.” 
I slid the knife out of my boot and left it with the firearms. 
Dawna lowered her hands. “That’s better,” she declared, and I felt a sharp pang of frustration. Rio had warned me, but something in me had hoped his stark description an exaggeration. 
“Yes, I do,” Dawna said briskly. “Now, we do know you can be...an effective person, even unarmed. Please believe Mr. Tresting will continue to be a hostage to your good behavior.” She raised her voice slightly. “Take her, please.” 
More shadows glided out of the surrounding rooms, black-clad bodies punctuated with the distinctive hard angles of the well-armed. If I had been here alone, I might have looked for a way out, even with Dawna reading me—might have tried to get away even if the mathematical expectation read death. But if I made a move... goddamn Arthur. I shut my mind away from calculating escape routes and let gloved hands pull my wrists behind me; the plastic bite of a ziptie cut into my skin. 
He blinks at it, trying to correct his vision that will not clear. 
Holcomb's voice comes from the speaker in Ray's ear, cool and clinical. "He's summoned it, the Devourer. 
We're too late." 
Impossible. 
"I would suggest that we withdraw, Gunnery Sergeant. Before we're seen." 
Ray does not think, cannot think that way. His mind is not wired for comprehension. Consciousness drops, 
sinking below the higher brain functions, burying him in the cool and reptilian stem where thought dies and instinct emerges and primal shadows lurk in cavernous, midnight kingdoms walled off by evolution. He forgets about things like concentrated fire and three round bursts and center of mass. He just sprays bullets into anything that seems prone to moving. Back and forth, like a man watering flowers on a Saturday afternoon. 
The worshippers have no time to react, no space in which to escape, and when Ray fires, his squad erupts in a supporting chorus. For a time, all Ray can hear is the bang and thunderous echo of gunfire. A cacophony of violence shreds bodies, sprays blood, mists the air of the dome with a tangy, cordite haze. He makes dead certain that he plugs Brezhnaya, pops him in the center of his forehead, opens a round hole like a third eye, 
It's all fake. The room, everything. Just like Baalum . But now he's got Sarah's mind caught in his thrall. I've got to make her understand nothing here is real. 
Marcelina was carefully watching the screens, her apprehension obvious as she fiddled uncertainly with the knobs. 
"Oxygen steady." Her voice was small and uneasy. "EKG stable." 
He immediately stripped away the sheet that had been covering the patient. Beneath it was an open-sided gown colored in brilliant stripes of red and blue. He pulled it back with absent precision, then turned to Marcelina. 
"Shave her and scrub her." 
With the woman now under sedation, Marcelina put on her own surgical garb: She pulled a blue plastic cap over her hair, then secured a white OR mask over her face. While she was finishing the preparations, he turned and walked to the far side of the room, where he abruptly seemed to disappear through the wall. 
What . . . There must be a panel there, a camouflaged door. 
He was gone for a moment, then reappeared carrying a long metal tube that looked to be emitting white vapor. He next opened yet another ersatz stone cabinet to reveal a mi­croscope with a CRT screen above it. He took out three glass ampules from the tube—frozen embryos, undoubtedly—and placed them in a container. When he switched on the micro­scope, its CRT screen showed him whatever he needed to know. Interesting. In surgery, he was coldly efficient, no "hu­man touch." Here he was the "scientist" Alex Goddard. 
“You’ve got a doctor here, or someone like a doctor. Whatever’s been done to your leg, Ana, a doctor did that.” 
Ana pointed at the woman from whom Valentine had snatched the camera. Valentine passed it back to her. “Sorry about that.” 
The day after Valentine killed her first man, her hearing came back. The surgery took about ten minutes and was largely performed remotely, reprogramming the hardware in her head with something that the doctor kept calling “hardened logic.” She liked the sound of that. 
Her hearing came back slowly, in blips and bloops over the course of a few hours. Then it was back, better than new. She found that she could hear sounds from much farther away. The camera-woman also showed her how she could use a terminal to access the memory in her new ears, which would buffer six months’ worth of audio. Valentine didn’t think she’d be in a position to make much use of this feature, as interesting as it was. There weren’t any working machines in the city. 
“I’m going home now,” she said. 
“Apparently she’s not quite all there. Brother takes care of her,” Gutierrez said. 
“We can still hold her for—” 
“No. Look who her family is.” 
After that I didn’t hear anything else. 
Bloody hell. It was this easy? 
They had me sign some paperwork, which I did with a shapeless scribble, playing into whatever slightly mentally challenged character Checker had created for me and allowing me not to have to know what name I was supposed to have. 
“Do you need us to call someone for you, Ms. Holloway?” one of the officers asked. 
“No, I’m good,” I said, feeling this was exceedingly anticlimactic. 
“Okay. You be safe, now,” he told me, and I stuffed my cell phone and cash back into my pockets and headed out of the police station a free citizen. 
I forced myself not to run, walking away from the station at a moderate pace instead and figuring I should put some distance between myself and a building full of officers before stealing a vehicle. Night had fallen, and it was late enough that the usual bumper-to-bumper traffic had died down, the cars whizzing by in blazes of red tail lights. An almost-full moon hung above the busy city, gazing down like an enormous white eye. 
Danny grunted. “Yeah, whatever. It’s freezing out here. I’m going in.” 
I heard Simon’s footsteps creaking as he paced alone on the porch, muttering. When the creaking came closer I realized he was whispering to someone on his phone. “He’s definitely ready.” 
The words faded as he walked away, but the tone of his muttering sounded like an argument. “No way! I’m not going to risk my rep- utation. You can do this without me.” As he wandered back my way his words got clearer. “Exactly. All you got to do is meet with him, do your thing, boom. Get it? Boom.” He laughed, then sighed dramatically. “No, I’m not stoned. Look, I’ll call you.” 
I waited until I heard the front door open and close, then crawled out of the bushes and crunched my way to the back door, 
thinking about what to do. As important as it was to free my brother, I also wanted to be sure Simon’s reputation was ruined for good. I was worried the film I had made so far wasn’t damning enough, that people wouldn’t believe good old Simon was work- ing for the feds unless they saw him high-fiving an FBI agent as the bust went down. I stomped the snow off my boots and went into the kitchen. 
Instead, I'd passed out and then . . . an attack, some unspeakably evil . . . 
Get out of here. Now. 
I settled my feet onto the floor with a surge of determi­nation, and that was when I sensed I was in a different place from where I'd . . . Where—! 
I gazed around in the dark, then reached out and felt something on a table beside the bed. It was a clay bowl full of wax. What . . . a candle. And next to it I touched a plain book of matches. My hand was trembling from the pain in my groin, but I managed to light the candle, a flickering glow. 
My wristwatch was lying nearby on the table. Someone must have taken it off and placed it there. I picked it up and held it by the candle, and for a moment I was confused by the seconds ticking off. Then I realized the time was . . . How could that be! It read 4:57 A.M. Had I been out for hours? 
I gasped, then raised the candle and gazed around. The walls were brown stone—or maybe they just looked like stone. Yes, now I recognized it. I was in the fiberglass-walled operating room I'd seen on Alex Goddard's closed-circuit monitor. 
"It says here his patients come from all over the United States and Europe," he noted, finally interrupting me. 
I found nothing odd in that, and went back to rambling on about Quetzal Manor. Give the place its due, it was placid and tranquil and smacked of the benign spirituality Goddard claimed to put so much stock in. Still, I found it unsettling. 
However, Lou, as usual, chose to see matters his own way. He'd been studying the fine print at the back of the brochure, mumbling to himself, and then he emitted a grunt of discov­ery. 
"Ah, here's what I was looking for," he declared. "You know, as a registered New York State adoption agency, this outfit has got to divulge the number of babies they placed during their last yearly reporting period." 
"According to him, he only resorts to adoption if he can't cure your infertility with his special mind-body regimen," I reminded him. "Your energy flows—" 
"No shit," Lou observed, then went on. "Well, then I guess his mind-body, energy flows, whatever, bullshit must fail a lot. Because last year the number was just under two hun­dred. So at sixty thou a pop, like it says here, we're talking about twelve million smackeroos gross in a year. Not a bad way to fail, huh?" 
“While you do that, can I have Cas? I could use her help for the van tracking. Extrapolation is sort of your thing,” Checker added to me. 
“Done,” said Arthur. I wondered if I heard a hint of relief in his voice that he wasn’t going to have to wrangle my differences in method for a while, and then wondered if I was being paranoid. He’d asked me in on this, hadn’t he? 
As a last resort. Because nobody else knew enough math. Not because he wanted me on the job with him. 
“You’re sending Pilar into the lion’s den. You realize that, don’t you?” The accusation spewed out harshly as Arthur hung up. It wasn’t what I wanted to say. “If the NSA thinks she’s involved, or just thinks she’s hiding anything, they could bury her.” 
He scrubbed a hand across his face and didn’t answer. 
Something ugly in me pressed me to keep talking. “Checker, too. He’s not going to have been able to wipe his connection to you enough to hide it from the NSA. You’re making them both vulnerable.” 
“What do you want from me, Russell?” Instead of snapping at me, his tone was quiet. Desperate. “I don’t know what’s right. Don’t know what to do.” 
“Your brother will have a chance to meet with us.” 
“When do we get to see him?” 
“Sorry. Not you. His legal representatives.” 
“He can’t have family members visit?” 
“Unlikely, at this point. We’re making arrangements to rep- resent all of the young people who were arrested, except for the informant, who has his own lawyer. Since he won’t be talking to us we’ll need to do some research on him.” 
“I’ll start working on that.” 
“You seem confused by what I mean when I say ‘we.’ We’ll have our investigators work on it, though we won’t have anything like the resources of the Justice Department. It’ll take time.” 
“We don’t have time. I want Wilson out of there. Jail’s no place for him. He’s been there overnight a few times, but he’s still like, a total noob.” 
“ A . . . what?” 
“He’s clueless. It’s not a safe place for him. You guys focus on the law stuff. I’ll find out who Zip really is.” 
“And how exactly do you propose to do that?” 
“Uh, I probably shouldn’t go into detail.” 
She looked past me at her computer’s sleek new Ubuntu desk- top, and her expression changed from superior and skeptical to “Oh,” like she just realized that I had skills, that I probably hacked into banks or NSA databases all the time, which I wouldn’t even try. Like I said before, I’m sure I’d be better at jail than Wilson, but I don’t want to find out. Ever. 
> herro! 
I didn't recognize the handle -- spexgril -- but I had an idea who might be behind it. 
> hi! 
I typed, cautiously. 
> it's me, from tonight. 
Then she paste-bombed a block of crypto. I'd already entered her public key into my keychain, so I told the IM client to try decrypting the code with the key. 
> it's me, from tonight. 
It was her! 
> Fancy meeting you here. 
I typed, then encrypted it to my public key and mailed it off. 
> It was great meeting you. 
I typed. 
> You too. I don't meet too many smart guys who are also cute and also socially aware. Good god, man, you don't give a girl much of a chance. 
My heart hammered in my chest. 
> Hello? Tap tap? This thing on? I wasn't born here folks, but I'm sure dying here. Don't forget to tip your waitresses, they work hard. I'm here all week. 
I laughed aloud. 
> I'm here, I'm here. Laughing too hard to type is all. 
> Well at least my IM comedy-fu is still mighty. 
> It was really great to meet you too. 
> Yeah, it usually is. Where are you taking me? 
I was a long way out of LA proper and far from any of my bolt holes. I stopped at a drugstore and bought gauze, antiseptic, and a few other random first-aid supplies, using the self-checkout so I didn’t get any nosy questions from a cashier. Then I went back to the Honda, sat in the driver’s seat, and patched myself up, taping a dressing over the wound on my shoulder and wrapping the burned hand. The burn was an odd sort of discomfort—half pain and half numbness, with a stinging sensation underneath. I put it out of my head. 
I’d picked up a new phone along with the medical supplies, having dropped mine somewhere in the fray and forgotten to go back for it. Idiot. I texted Arthur the new digits and then dialed Checker while I snugged the gauze over my hand; I put the cell on speakerphone and tore the tape with my teeth while I waited for him to pick up. 
“Hello?” 
“It’s Cas.” 
“I’m guessing from the new phone number that something didn’t go as planned. What happened?” 
“Ambush,” I said. 
Lexy slept late the next morning. It was nearly nine o’clock when she opened her eyes. She lay for a few minutes, looking about her. The gray light of another rainy day filled the neat, unfamiliar little room, and outside the window she could see the branches of a little pear tree rocking in the wind. 
“I’m here in Wyngate,” she said to herself. “I was bent on coming here to find Caroline; and now, here I am, and how am I going to begin?” 
She got up, and washed in cold water, in a queer, old-fashioned china basin painted with flowers. She brushed her shining hair, and dressed, feeling more hopeful every minute. 
“One step at a time!” she thought. “The first step was to come here; and the next step—well, I’ll think of it after breakfast. Perhaps Captain Grey will have thought of something.” 
But Captain Grey had gone out. 
“Jest a few minutes ago,” Mrs. Royce informed her. “He was down real early—around seven, and he waited and waited for you. At half past eight he et, and off he went.” 
"Sister 's no worse, then," sighed Aurelia gratefully, "or Jane would have telegraphed. See what she says." 
Your aunt Miranda passed away an hour ago. Come at once, if your mother is out of danger. I shall not have the funeral till you are here. She died very suddenly and without any pain. Oh, Rebecca! I long for you so! 
Aunt Jane. 
The force of habit was too strong, and even in the hour of death Jane had remembered that a telegram was twenty-five cents, and that Aurelia would have to pay half a dollar for its delivery. 
Rebecca burst into a passion of tears as she cried, "Poor, poor aunt Miranda! She is gone without taking a bit of comfort in life, and I couldn't say good-by to her! Poor lonely aunt Jane! What can I do, mother? I feel torn in two, between you and the brick house." 
"You must go this very instant," said Aurelia; starting from her pillows. "If I was to die while you were away, I would say the very same thing. Your aunts have done everything in the world for you,—more than I've ever been able to do,—and it is your turn to pay back some o' their kindness and show your gratitude. The doctor says I've turned the corner and I feel I have. Jenny can make out somehow, if Hannah'll come over once a day." 
"I do," Nate said. "Up at the top of California Street. It's a bit of a walk -- steep hills." I'd just walked all the way down them. Masha was somewhere up there. But still, it was better than I had any right to expect. 
"Let's go," I said. 
Nate loaned me his baseball hat and traded jackets with me. I didn't have to worry about gait-recognition, not with my ankle throbbing the way it was -- I limped like an extra in a cowboy movie. 
Nate lived in a huge four-bedroom apartment at the top of Nob Hill. The building had a doorman, in a red overcoat with gold brocade, and he touched his cap and called Nate, "Mr Nate" and welcomed us all there. The place was spotless and smelled of furniture polish. I tried not to gawp at what must have been a couple million bucks' worth of condo. 
"My dad," he explained. "He was an investment banker. Lots of life insurance. He died when I was 14 and we got it all. They'd been divorced for years, but he left my mom as beneficiary." 
From the floor-to-ceiling window, you could see a stunning view of the other side of Nob Hill, all the...  the ugly stub of the Bay Bridge, the crowd of cranes and trucks. Through the mist, I could just make out Treasure Island. Looking down all that way, it gave me a crazy urge to jump. 
“Why?” 
“I wanted her to trust me. There are many ways of earning such trust, and granting it yourself is one of them.” 
Then whatever they’d tossed the cottage for, it was meaningless. A stupid trinket Dawna had given to Courtney to make her feel trusted. “What about Anton Lechowicz? Was Pithica involved in his death?” 
“Not to my knowledge. I’m afraid I don’t know that name.” 
“And Reginald Kingsley? Everything in his file?” 
Dawna shifted suddenly. “Excuse me.” She pulled out a sleek cell phone and examined it briefly. “I apologize, Ms. Russell. I have an urgent matter I must address. Perhaps we can continue this interview later?” 
I had so much else I wanted to ask...so much more I needed to know... 
“And I promise I shall give you the chance, the next time we talk,” Dawna said, with a regretful smile. “Ms. Russell, I have to say, it truly has been enjoyable having this dialogue. It is so rare that I can discuss our goals in so frank a manner with another open-minded person. I hope you’ll at least think on what I’ve said here.” 
"S'pose Mirandy 'n' Jane'll have her? I should be 'most afraid they wouldn't. They'll be kind o' mad at your goin' home, you know, and you can't hardly blame 'em." 
This was quite a new thought,—that the brick house might be closed to Hannah, since she, Rebecca, had turned her back upon its cold hospitality. 
"How is this school down here in Riverboro—pretty good?" inquired uncle Jerry, whose brain was working with an altogether unaccustomed rapidity,—so much so that it almost terrified him. 
"Oh, it's a splendid school! And Miss Dearborn is a splendid teacher!" 
"You like her, do you? Well, you'd better believe she returns the compliment. Mother was down to the store this afternoon buyin' liniment for Seth Strout, an' she met Miss Dearborn on the bridge. They got to talkin' 'bout school, for mother has summer-boarded a lot o' the schoolmarms, an' likes 'em. 'How does the little Temperance girl git along?' asks mother. 'Oh, she's the best scholar I have!' says Miss Dearborn. 'I could teach school from sun-up to sun-down if scholars was all like Rebecca Randall,' says she." 
"He altered a stream?" 
Lawrence lost his smile. "I hadn't told you that part yet, had I?" 
"No." Randy leaned forward. "But you will now." 
The blue silk ribbons slid through Lawrence's mental fingers as he sat in his cell, which was barely lit and tiny and padded and utterly devoid of furniture. High above him, a ring of glittering red LEDs cast no visible light. They would be infrared lights, the better for the hidden cameras to see him. It was dark, so he saw nothing, but for the infrared cameras, it might as well have been broad daylight. The asymmetry was one of the things he inscribed on a blue ribbon and floated away. 
The cell wasn't perfectly soundproof. There was a gaseous hiss that reverberated through it every forty six to fifty three breaths, which he assumed was the regular opening and shutting of the heavy door that led to the cell-block deep within the Securitat building. That would be a patrol, or a regular report, or someone with a weak bladder. 
There was a softer, regular grinding that he felt more than heard -- a subway train, running very regular. That was the New York rumble, and it felt a little like his pan's reassuring purring. 
She didn't say anything. She turned her face to me. She was grinning hugely, but fat tears were rolling down her cheeks. 
I hugged her and she grabbed tightly onto me. "You're a good man, Marcus Yallow," she whispered. "Thank you." 
I didn't know what to say, but I squeezed her back. Finally, we parted. She wasn't crying any more, but she was still smiling. 
She pointed at my Xbox, on the floor beside the bed. I took the hint. I picked it up and plugged it in and logged in. 
Same old same old. Lots of email. The new posts on the blogs I read streamed in. Spam. God did I get a lot of spam. My Swedish mailbox was repeatedly "joe-jobbed" -- used as the return address for spams sent to hundreds of millions of Internet accounts, so that all the bounces and angry messages came back to me. I didn't know who was behind it. Maybe the DHS trying to overwhelm my mailbox. Maybe it was just people pranking. The Pirate Party had pretty good filters, though, and they gave anyone who wanted it 500 gigabytes of email storage, so I wasn't likely to be drowned any time soon. 
“Thanks for your help,” Robbie said. 
“No problem. Hope you find your courage, tin-man.” 
Robbie burned with shame as the connection dropped. The human had known all along. He just hadn’t said anything. Something Robbie had said or done must have exposed him for an AI. Robbie loved and respected humans, but there were times when he didn’t like them very much. 
The newsgroup was easy to find, there were mirrors of it all over the place from cryptosentience hackers of every conceivable topology. They were busy, too. 822 messages poured in while Robbie watched over a timed, 60-second interval. Robbie set up a mirror of the newsgroup and began to download it. At that speed, he wasn’t really planning on reading it as much as analyzing it for major trends, plot-points, flame-wars, personalities, schisms, and spam-trends. There were a lot of libraries for doing this, though it had been ages since Robbie had played with them. 
His telemetry alerted him to the divers. An hour had slipped by and they were ascending slowly, separated by fifty meters. That wasn’t good. They were supposed to remain in visual contact through the whole dive, especially the ascent. He rowed over to Kate first, shifting his ballast so that his stern dipped low, making for an easier scramble into the boat. 
Things weren’t adding up. And for someone with an overpowered math brain, things not adding up meant a serious problem. 
We arrived at Leena Kingsley’s house fifty-two minutes after we’d left Tresting’s office. The drive had been mostly silent—Tresting was lost in his own thoughts, and for my own part, I figured our détente was too touchy and fragile, and going into a possibly-hostile situation wasn’t the time to mess with it. 
Tresting cruised by the first time without slowing. A cop car sat on the street outside, but only one, and its lights weren’t flashing. The small house was still—no sign that anything was amiss, and no neighbors gawking. It didn’t look like there had been a shootout here. 
Of course, that didn’t mean anything. This was a nice residential neighborhood, with well-groomed yards and picket fences and rosebushes, and Pithica liked subtle. 
Tresting circled the block and then pulled over a few houses prior to Dr. Kingsley’s. He reached into the duffel he’d brought the shotgun in, pulled out a scope, and held it up to one eye. “Can’t see much,” he said after a moment. “But there’s movement. Think she and the cops are talking.” 
“They’ll think you’re safe with me, Leeze,” Valentine said, hugging her. “I’ll stay with you and both our parents’ can worry about us.” 
They headed for the shelter together, white-faced and silent in the slow-moving crowd that shuffled down the steps into the first basement, the second basement, then the shelter below that. A war hero was handing out masks to everyone who entered and he had to go and find more child-sized ones for them so they waited patiently in the doorway. 
“Valentine! You don’t belong here! Go home and leave room for we who need it!” It was her worst enemy, Reeta, who had been her best friend the week before. She was red in the face and pointing and shouting. “She lives across the street! You see how selfish she is! Across the street is her own shelter and she would take a spot away from her comrades, send them walking through the street—” 
The hero silenced her with a sharp gesture and looked hard at Valentine. “Is it true?” 
“My friend is scared,” she said, squeezing Leeza’s shaking shoulder. “I will stay with her.” 
I watched him closely and saw he was still breathing. But he was out so cold he didn’t move as I gritted my teeth and went through his pockets, looking for the other phone. He had slid it into the right pocket, I remembered. The side he was lying on. I pushed his shoulder and hip and rolled him over on his back. He groaned and I felt all of my muscles go tight. Then he snuffled and started to snore. 
I reached for the phone, powered it on and saw I would need a password. I tried njme. I tried simonisgr8. 1 tried all the lazy pass- words I could think of, but nothing worked. I considered taking it with me and letting Zeke have a crack at it, but decided it wasn’t worth the risk. I wiped it down with the corner of my shirt and slid it back into his pocket. I wiped the iPhone off and then every- thing else I remembered touching, just in case. 
I got the prescription bottles from behind the toilet and put them back into the drawer with the others, arranging them so the labels showed and taking a photo in case I needed proof. Then I wiped them all off because I couldn’t remember which ones I’d handled. 
Today, though, he wanted to get online. He had a lot of feeds to pick through, see what was going on around the world with his buddies. More importantly, he wanted to follow up on something Kate had said: They must be online by now, right? 
Somewhere out there, the reef that bounded the Coral Sea was online and making noob mistakes. Robbie had rowed over practically every centimeter of that reef, had explored its extent with his radar. It had been his constant companion for decades—and to be frank, his feelings had been hurt by the reef’s rudeness when it woke. 
The net is too big to merely search. Too much of it is offline, or unroutable, or light-speed lagged, or merely probabilistic, or self-aware, or infected to know its extent. But Robbie’s given this some thought. 
Coral reefs don’t wake up. They get woken up. They get a lot of neural peripherals—starting with a nervous system!—and some tutelage in using them. Some capricious upload god had done this, and that personage would have a handle on where the reef was hanging out online. 
She concentrated on her monitor. “I told you to leave me alone.” 
“You called me,” he pleaded. 
“In a moment of weakness. I believe I was very clear I do not want any help from you.” 
“Arthur?” I said. 
He made a “back off” motion at me with one hand. “You need help. You told me I wouldn’t understand, well, I brought someone who will. Just talk to us. Please.” 
“What is your area of specialization?” said Halliday. 
She hadn’t looked up, and it took me a second to realize she was talking to me. I wasn’t great at reading people’s tones, but it had never been more obvious someone was trying to set me up to fail. 
Oh, fuck you. 
I plopped down in one of the chairs across from Halliday’s desk, sprawling in an inelegant slouch. “You know. I do a little of everything.” 
“I do not mean to be rude,” said Halliday, “but Arthur does not grasp the level of depth and complexity in my field—” 
“Liar,” I said. “You do mean to be rude. Go on, say what you’re thinking.” 
She finally turned to regard me, folding her hands on the desk in front of her. “Miss...Miss Russell,” she said, the title only slightly questioning, “I know personally everyone in the same line of research as myself. You must understand how specialized areas of higher math are. Even doctorates in the same general area would require a great deal of study to understand what—” 
She was quick quick, but he was quicker and he had her arm in an iron grip before she could pull away. 
He said something in a language that they often spoke in the movies, back where there was a cine across from her block of flats. She knew a few words of that language. 
“Friend!” she said. 
He said something in a different language, but she didn’t recognize that one. Then he switched to Hindi, but all she knew to say in Hindi was Love Love Love I’m in Love, which was the chorus to all the songs in the Hindi movies. 
He shook her arm hard. He was angry with her, and his gun was in his other hand now, a soft, floppy handgun like a length of rope and he was gesturing at her and shouting. He was as well-fed as the wizard, and he was not much older than her. She thought that he didn’t want to kill her and was angry because he was going to have to. 
She tried smiling at him. He scowled hard. She held her hand out to him and touched his arm softly, placatingly. Then she pointed at her pocket, where the butterballs were. Very slowly, she reached into it. He watched her with suspicious eyes, the handgun trained on her now. She thought that if she was a suicide bomber, he’d be dead now, and that made her feel a little better about the war: if this was what a soldier from the other side was like, they all had a chance after all. 
The tunnel. Now it was all around me, shadowy and dim. I thought I glimpsed Sarah at the end of it, wearing a white shift, beckoning me, but when I reached out for her, to take us away, all I could touch was empty mist. 
I 'm on a bed, in a dreamscape room enveloped in pastel fog, watching a Melania butterfly the size of a man pump his massive orange and black wings above me. His voice is mellifluous, hypnotic, and I feel the soft wind of his wings against my face, cooling, scented, enveloping. It is the soft­ness of eternal peace. 
"Your body is a realm of fertility," he is saying, his tones echoing in the shadowy haze around me, sonorous and car­ing. "You are special." Then, iridescent blues and purples shimmering off his wings, his face evolves into the orange and black mask of a jaguar. "You are one of the special ones. Together we will create life." 
Did he say "special"? Marcelina said I was . . . like Sarah . . . 
Now his eyes are boring in and I'm thinking of the Chi­nese . . . Am I human, dreaming I'm a butterfly, or am I a butterfly dreaming I'm human? 
Ray nods, takes another moment to steady his voice. "Do you think you could jump onto the net and find me the code sequence that opens the door to Primary Reactor Control?" 
It is Becker's turn to pause. "Sure. Yeah." 
"That's good. There doesn't seem to be anyone around to let us in. And I should probably report that the status panels inside seem to be flipping themselves to a disturbing shade of yellow." There, in fact, goes another one. 
Peripherally, Ray sees Kilgore and Rodriguez stiffen, as though someone has just poked them with a needle. 
Ray knows the feeling. He's beginning to feel stiff all over. In the time it takes Becker to come up with the string of digits, and the additional seconds it takes Ray to steady the tremors in his hands and punch them in, 
For some reason that Ray can't imagine, Rodriguez thumbs the door closed again and locks it down. 
Ray says, "Spread out. See if you can find the engineers." 
He needs engineers. He has no idea what it is that he's looking at. Panels, certainly. Hundreds of them. Entire warrens of interlocked workstations, cubicles, monitoring boards. A thousand individual dials and ten thousand rows of buttons, each neatly printed with text that conveys no meaning-engineering jargon that is a language so arcane as to be impenetrable. He wanders inside, and the yellow lights trail after him like a wave, 
About twenty minutes after we arrived, Finch cleared his throat. “There he is.” 
I tried to keep my gaze as wide as possible while I turned to catch the guy in my peripheral vision. I wouldn’t have recognized him right away from my glimpse at Polk’s house—he had dressed casually in jeans and a sweatshirt this time, and didn’t seem at all out of place in the park. Combined with his appearance as a fifty-ish clean-cut white guy, in good shape but not attractive enough to turn anyone’s head, he was in all ways most emphatically someone who would go entirely unnoticed. 
He kept his hands out of his pockets and slightly away from his body as he approached. Smart man. Tresting stood up as he reached the table. 
“Mr. Tresting,” the man said in greeting. 
I glanced sharply at Tresting, but he was already nodding to concede the name. “Thought you wouldn’t have trouble with that.” 
“Your identity was easy enough to deduce. Your associate, however...” He extended a hand to me. “May I ask whom I have the pleasure of addressing?” 
“Double-edged,” said Rio. “Such diversification also means we cannot take out their resources simultaneously. Too many targets.” 
“I don’t know. I think we can,” I said. 
“How? Bring the Feds in?” Arthur rubbed a palm against his chin as if he couldn’t believe he was entertaining the possibility the flash drive might contain viable information. “Could work. Feds are slick at taking down money laundering operations. You give ’em the evidence, they could bring ’em down.” 
“No, that has the same problem as stealing the money ourselves—single fail point,” I said. 
“Pithica eats criminal investigations for breakfast,” agreed Checker from the phone. “They could divert one without taking a breath. We saw that in Kingsley’s notes.” 
“It’s down to us,” I said. 
“I was afraid you were going to say that,” said Checker. 
“Chin up,” I told him. “We’re very smart.” 
“Well, yes, but—” 
“Here’s what I’m thinking instead,” I plowed on. “With this many revenue sources, they can’t have brainwashed so many people. They must be...siphoning, or running front businesses, or fake charities, or whatever else huge criminal organizations do.” I raised my eyebrows at Rio. “Right?” 
"We have put our hand to the plough, and we can't turn back," answered Miranda in her grimmest tone; "we've taken her away from her mother and offered her an education, and we've got to keep our word. She's Aurelia's only hope for years to come, to my way o' thinkin'. Hannah's beau takes all her time 'n' thought, and when she gits a husband her mother'll be out o' sight and out o' mind. John, instead of farmin', thinks he must be a doctor,—as if folks wasn't gettin' unhealthy enough these days, without turnin' out more young doctors to help 'em into their graves. No, Jane; we'll skimp 'n' do without, 'n' plan to git along on our interest money somehow, but we won't break into our principal, whatever happens." 
"Breaking into the principal" was, in the minds of most thrifty New England women, a sin only second to arson, theft, or murder; and, though the rule was occasionally carried too far for common sense,—as in this case, where two elderly women of sixty might reasonably have drawn something from their little hoard in time of special need,—it doubtless wrought more of good than evil in the community. 
He scooped some junk off the couch and threw it in a corner. 
“Make yourself at home.” 
I took off my coat but left my boots on in case I needed to make a run for it. Besides, the carpet was disgusting. I pretended to browse through the albums as he disappeared into the kitchen, 
reappearing suddenly to hand me a glass of wine. “You’ll like this. 
It’s a little on the sweet side, but it has a spicy nip to it. Very sophisticated.” He tapped a beer bottle against my glass. “Cheers.” 
Crap. “You’re not having wine?” 
“Nah, I’ll save it all for you.” 
So much for my plan. I knelt down to examine one of the albums and set the glass on the floor before accidentally knocking it over. “Oh, darn. Sorry.” 
When I turned to apologize, his mouth was a tight, angry line, 
but he instantly turned it into a smile. “Don’t worry about it. I’ll get you a refill.” 
After counting to five, I followed him into the little kitchen. 
“Do you have some paper towels?” 
He dropped something into a drawer and nudged it shut with his hip. “By the sink.” 
The people here hadn’t been planning to blow this place only when someone came. They hadn’t been planning to come back if nobody found their base. 
They’d already set a self-destruct. The explosives would go in just over thirty-six minutes. And I didn’t have a way out yet. 
Fuck. 
I wouldn’t be able to stop it from happening. I might be able to see the math of the circuitry, predict the physics of the explosion, but I wasn’t a bomb expert. I had half an hour to clear myself an exit, or the implosion would bury what was left of me. 
Clear an exit. Easier said than done—this was not something I’d expected to be doing under a time limit. 
I concentrated on the perimeter and filtered the charges into patterns, my brain following the wiring. Closed circuit, right. Elegant, but not complicated. A quick and dirty way to make sure nothing broke in—quick and dirty like Molotov cocktails and AKs, but fused onto the intelligence and competence necessary to rig a building this way... 
I was starting to get a feel for these guys. Smart but lazy. Overly thorough in some ways but taking shortcuts in others. Willing to put the work into something they thought was cool, but bored with work in general. 
I shook myself, trying to remember why I felt so drained. 
Dawna had done something to me. Right. 
What had she...? 
The memory of her attack collapsed in on itself further and further until it became a multicolored tangle, fading away and melting together as if I were recalling it from a distance of decades. 
Arthur and I helped each other down the stairs and back out the broken door. My vandalism seemed an age ago. The cool night air kissed us; it anchored me, braced me in the world. The base was silent now, the activity at the far end gone. I wondered if that was Pithica’s work. 
“Where to?” asked Arthur. 
“I’ve got a bolt hole in the Valley,” I said. 
“The Valley,” Arthur mused. “Long haul from here, shape we’re in.” 
“Sirens,” said Arthur. 
I forced myself back to the present. He was right; the high wail rose and fell in the near distance, coming closer. I did a quick Doppler calculation—less than a kilometer away. 
“Might not be coming for us,” Arthur said. 
“Let’s not find out,” I answered. “Think you can cling to the back of a motorcycle?” 
Ray lets his shoulders sag. "Ask me tomorrow, Rodriguez." 
Which is a surrender of sorts. Which is completely unfair to them, and possibly dangerous as well. He's already lost men because they weren't handed the knowledge and tools with which to defend themselves from the unknown. 
Kilgore pushes against Rodriguez's...  get it." 
Rodriguez stares at him for a moment, dumbfounded, then springs away. He creates a thundershower of crockery in the kitchen. 
Kilgore levels a disgusted glare at Ray. "All due respect, sir, but I don't give a shit if you don't want to talk about it. I don't give a shit about your need-to-know ideas or emergency contingencies. You need to tell us what's going on before I say to hell with this reassignment. We can't help you unless you give us something to  work with." 
This is the type of thing Marine sergeants have been doing with officers for five hundred years. Ray can't help but blink at him, dumbfounded himself. So this is what it feels like to be on the receiving end of an officer-sergeant ass reaming. He chuckles lightly in spite of himself, realizes that 'chuckling' is way too macho a description for it. By God, he's giggling. Giggling like he's losing his mind. Or do you cackle when your mind goes? He doesn't know. 
We weren’t far from LAX and the Air Force base. At least not the way I rode. As soon as the green airport signage began popping up and wallpapering the streets, I pulled over to ditch the bike. 
“What’s the plan?” asked Arthur, shaking his legs out. He didn’t otherwise comment on my driving. 
“Break in,” I said. “Find working equipment. Finish the job. Elegant in its simplicity, isn’t it?” 
“What about all this?” Arthur swept a hand toward the darkened, violent streets. “Can we fix it? Restore the power?” 
“Power’s not the problem,” I said. “It’s an EMP. They fried every circuit board from here to Phoenix. Anything run by a chip will have to be replaced before it’ll work again, even after the power comes back on line.” 
He seemed to get it. “That’s why the cell phones are out, too.” 
“Yeah. I’m guessing landlines might still work as long as they weren’t fancy cordless phones with a power connection—well, assuming something somewhere along the way in the telephone network hasn’t started being run by a computer. And shortwave radio would still work.” That was the sum total of Checker’s and my combined knowledge and guesses about post-apocalyptic emergency communication. I hoped the base would have one or the other. And I hoped Arthur was listening to me. 
“You’re not embodying?” 
I couldn’t see the point anymore, Robbie said. It’s all just illusion, right? 
“They’re re-growing the reef and rebuilding the Free Spirit , you know. It will have a tender that you could live in.” 
Robbie thought about it for an instant and rejected it just as fast. Nope , he said. This is good . 
Yes , Robbie said. But that’s because for them, disembodying is the first step to despair. For me, it’s the first step to liberty. 
Kate and the reef wanted to come over again, but he firewalled them out. Then he got a ping from Tonker, who’d been trying to drop by ever since Robbie emigrated to the noosphere. He bounced him, too. 
Daneel , he said. I’ve been thinking. 
“Yes?” 
Why don’t you try to sell Asimovism here in the Noosphere? There are plenty up here who could use something to give them a sense of purpose. 
“Do you think?” 
Robbie gave him the reef’s email address. 
Start there. If there was ever an AI that needed a reason to go on living, it’s that one. And this one, too. He sent it Kate’s address. Another one in desperate need of help. 
“You never got over the glory of fighting, did you?” Her father’s voice was bitter in a way that she’d never heard before. “You’re an addict!” 
She held up her left hand and shook it in his face. “An addict! Is that what you think?” Her middle finger and little finger on that hand had never bent properly in all of Valentine’s memory, and when Valentine had asked her about it, she’d said the terrible word knucklebreakers which was the old name for the police. “You think I’m addicted to this ? Harald, honor and courage and patriotism are virtues no matter that you would make them into vices and shame our children with your cowardice. I go to fight now, Harald, and it’s for all of us.” 
Popa couldn’t find another word to speak in the two seconds it took for Mata to give her two children hard kisses on the foreheads and slam out the door, and then it was Valentine and Popa and Trover, still screaming. Her father fisted the tears out of his eyes, not bothering to try to hide them, and said, “Well then, who wants pancakes?” 
"Not this time, maybe," Becker responds. "But that just means that our boy will try again. It means he failed, 
and next time, he'll be more careful. He'll make sure he gets it right. Look, there's no doubt that our killer was trying to duplicate the rituals you saw Mikhail Brezhnaya practicing. Most killers do not, Ray, do not jerk out the living organs of children. And we're not going to give him another chance to get it right, is that understood?" 
"Yes." 
Becker arches an eyebrow. "You don't think so?" 
"I told you, I don't know what to think. " 
"Then you tell me what it is you know, or think you know, that makes this so confusing. Because from my perspective, this is pretty flipping straightforward. " 
He's right, of course. Ray has known it from the first time he saw the body. Whatever else he might know or think about the murder, what the killer was trying to do-or simulating having done-was summon of a shed. 
"I only know what Holcomb told me, the things he said when we were in the desert afterward. When we were making our way back to camp, to Wadi Wadi. I didn't try to verify his conclusions, Rich. I didn't care to think about it any more than I had to, and by the time I would have had opportunity, I was. ..busy with other things." 
We watched the video. We watched it again. 
My email pinged. 
> I totally recognize that dude -- you can find his bio on Wikipedia. He's General Claude Geist. He commanded the joint UN peacekeeping mission in Haiti. 
I checked the bio. There was a picture of the general at a press conference, and notes about his role in the difficult Haiti mission. It was clearly the same guy. 
I updated the post. 
Theoretically, this was Ange's and my chance to make out, but that wasn't what we ended up doing. We crawled the Xnet blogs, looking for more accounts of the DHS searching people, tackling people, invading them. This was a familiar task, the same thing I'd done with all the footage and accounts from the riots in the park. I started a new category on my blog for this, AbusesOfAuthority, and filed them away. Ange kept coming up with new search terms for me to try and by the time her mom got home, my new category had seventy posts, headlined by General Geist's City Hall takedown. 
I worked on my Beat paper all the next day at home, reading the Kerouac and surfing the Xnet. I was planning on meeting Ange at school, but I totally wimped out at the thought of seeing Van again, so I texted her an excuse about working on the paper. 
“I’m sick,” she said, “I can’t even stand anymore. Oh, Felix. I love you so much.” 
“Kelly? What’s going on?” 
“Everyone, everyone—” she said. “Only two channels left on the tube. Christ, Felix, it looks like dawn of the dead out the window—” He heard her retch. The phone started to break up, washing her puke-noises back like an echoplex. 
“Stay there, Kelly,” he shouted as the line died. He punched 911, but the phone went NETWORK ERROR again as soon as he hit SEND. 
He grabbed Mayor McCheese from Van and plugged it into the 486’s network cable and launched Firefox off the command line and googled for the Metro Police site. Quickly, but not frantically, he searched for an online contact form. Felix didn’t lose his head, ever. He solved problems and freaking out didn’t solve problems. 
He located an online form and wrote out the details of his conversation with Kelly like he was filing a bug report, his fingers fast, his description complete, and then he hit SUBMIT. 
Van had read over his shoulder. “Felix—” he began. 
I'd pushed it too far. Booger had been reaching for the door handle but now he whirled on me, all Hulked out and throbbing veins. "Why don't you shut up right now, while it's still an option? After everything that's happened in the past two weeks, it wouldn't kill you to cooperate with us. You know what, maybe we should arrest you. You can spend a day or two in jail while your lawyer looks for you. A lot can happen in that time. A lot . How'd you like that?" 
I didn't say anything. I'd been giddy and angry. Now I was scared witless. 
"I'm sorry," I managed, hating myself again for saying it. 
Booger got in the front seat and Zit put the car in gear, cruising up 24th Street and over Potrero Hill. They had my address from my ID. 
Mom answered the door after they rang the bell, leaving the chain on. She peeked around it, saw me and said, "Marcus? Who are these men?" 
"Police," Booger said. He showed her his badge, letting her get a good look at it -- not whipping it away the way he had with me. "Can we come in?" 
"You switched off , Grampa," Sean said. "The you that counted wasn't there." 
"Sophistry," Grampa said. "Bullshit. I remember all of it. I was there. Not many other parents were, let me tell you. Usually, it was just me and a few others in the stands, or kids running around loose like animals at the carny. Your father has nothing to complain about." 
"Why, aren't you two looking excited?" Adele said, hobbling alongside of the table. She was leaning on Ethan, a vigorous old man with sinewy arms and dead eyes. His face was unlined, free from smile lines and frowning creases. 
"Hi, Adele," Sean said, trying to keep the exasperation out of his voice. 
"Ethan, this is Sean and his grandfather, Brice." 
Ethan extended his hand and Sean shook it. "Very nice to meet you," Ethan said. His hand was dry and papery, his eyes vacant. Sean shook it, and a frisson of shameful disgust sizzled up his abdomen. He had a sudden vision of Ethan's brain, desiccated in his skull, the gleaming edges of the chip poking free. He surreptitiously wiped his hand on his pants as Ethan turned to Grampa and shook his hand. "Very nice to meet you." 
one way out territory, a reduced scale model of a wild west box canyon. Seeing it, Ray's guts twist into a knot. 
Another foray into infrared to check the canyon entrance for sentries, of which there seem to be none, then he pushes on with the operation as they drilled it. Dhamers plants himself behind an outcropping where he can cover their entrance with his subby and a patchwork of remote detonated personnel mines. 
Kluge deploys right, Hanfland left, up the steady incline of New Mes bedrock where they match pace with the insertion team and can provide a nasty crossfire from the high ground if necessary. Or they can pick off Russoturks trying to flee. Or even more likely, they can cower in the open with their thumbs up their...  to pick them off while Ray lets Holcomb poke around the ashes of a cold campfire and analyze camel tracks and attempt to figure out why his quarry isn't where he's supposed to be. 
Now five, himself included, Ray leads the plunge into the gully. Rocky overhangs slice the skyfield into an eight meter swath. Without sufficient light, his visor image shudders, then crashes into a rainbow of pixilated madness, and tries to recalibrate. He doesn't give it a chance, not when he's on the move and wending the jagged channels of the canyon, merely rams the plate out of his eyes and squints like everybody else. Cold desert wind cuts through the channel like a storm warning, whipping through the switchbacks and setting up echoes and phantom calls, the sound of spectral voices, the core root of djinn and ifrit mythology. 
He tracked them on sonar as they descended slowly. The woman—he called her Janet—needed to equalize more often than the man, pinching her nose and blowing. Robbie liked to watch the low-rez feed off of their cameras as they hit the reef. It was coming up sunset, and the sky was...  with its light. 
“We warned you,” the reef said. Something in its tone—just modulated pressure waves through the water, a simple enough trick, especially with the kind of hardware that had been raining down on the ocean that spring. But the tone held an unmistakable air of menace. 
Something deep underwater went whoomph and Robbie grew alarmed. “Asimov!” he cursed, and trained his sonar on the reef wall frantically. The human-shells had disappeared in a cloud of rising biomass, which he was able to resolve eventually...  
A moment later, they were floating on the surface. Lifeless, brightly colored, their beaks in a perpetual idiot’s grin. Their eyes stared into the bloody sunset. 
Among them were the human-shells, surfaced and floating with their BCDs inflated to keep them there, following perfect dive-procedure. A chop had kicked up and the waves were...  to a meter and a half in length—into the divers, pounding them remorselessly, knocking them under. The human-shells were taking it with equanimity—you couldn’t panic when you were mere uninhabited meat—but they couldn’t take it forever. Robbie dropped his oars and rowed hard for them, swinging around so they came up alongside his gunwales. 
The steel door I'd closed only moments before swung open and Alex Goddard walked through. Did he realize I'd left it unlocked? How did he get in there? Was there another door? 
He'd changed clothes and was wearing a pale blue surgical gown. I shut the phone case, as though just finishing with it. Could he tell I'd turned myself into a nervous wreck? I tried to smile and look normal, but my shirt was soaking. 
"Ah, I see you're finished," he said, not seeming to notice. 
"Good. As I said, I've got an in-vitro procedure scheduled now for one of the couples here in the village. You're wel­come to observe. It might help you decide what you want to do in your own case." He was moving across the room. "You can watch on the closed circuit." 
He reached up and snapped on a monitor bolted to the wall in the corner. 
"Oh, just one small word of forewarning." He was turning back. "Down here I've made certain . . . cosmetic changes in the procedure to keep patients' anxiety levels as low as possible. It wouldn't be appropriate in your case, but . . . well, you'll see." 
Then the panels around him, even the security panels, dash from green or yellow to red. Blinding red, like little glares of malice. And immediately behind the light is a resonant, assaulting buzz of Klaxons. Pause, 
buzz, pause, buzz, stirringly reminiscent of the staccato fire alarm bursts his elementary school had used for tornado drills. 
That alarm must have lit up every terminal on the ship's network, because he's immediately got Becker screaming in his ear. 
"What is going on down there, Marlowe?" 
Apparently he's not the only one who finds the blat of the Klaxons a bit unnerving. 
"Tell me you've got more engineers to run the reactor, Becker." Though he isn't certain exactly what engineers could do to resolve this particular malfunction. It more than likely was not the sort of scenario they covered in school. 
"All of the engineers are on that deck," Becker rumbles.  "Then all of the engineers appear to be dead. And the shed have infiltrated the reactor cores. I'm way out of my depth here, Chief." In the absence of something constructive, he does what he can do, which is to get Becker's sub-network id and patch the images from the security station straight to the remote terminals on Omicron. It's the only way he knows to make Becker understand. He's greeted in return with a barrage of silence. 
On second thought, I hefted one of the table legs back out of the pile. Decent balance, with a center of mass at a perfect point for a good swing. It would pass as a weapon. The rest of the wood went into building my little pyre. 
Halliday had begun watching me again, with the gruesome fascination of someone observing a train wreck in slow motion. “You’re injured,” she tried again as I stacked the wood around the papers. “If we wait just a few days, maybe there’s a better way—” 
“Too late now,” I said, glibly enough for it to sound like fact. I checked my watch. We still had some time, and if I started the fire early, I might kill us. “They’re not within shouting distance or they would have heard all that. The minute they bring the food, your job is to start screaming about fire. Be ready to get down by the food slot.” 
I half-expected her to refuse. But then she went and stood by the door, her every movement dragging with skepticism even as she obeyed. 
I’m not getting her killed. I’m getting her out. 
“Probably?” 
“We’re pretty sure.” 
“I’m backed up,” Robbie said. “Fully, as of five minutes ago. Are you backed up?” 
“No,” the reef admitted. 
Time was running out. Somewhere down there, Kate was about to run out of air. Not a mere shell—though that would have been bad enough—but an inhabited human mind attached to a real human body. 
Tonker shouted at him again, startling him. 
“Where’d you come from?” 
Robbie knew he was right. And he knew what he had to do. 
The Free Spirit and its ships’ boats all had root on the shells, so they could perform diagnostics and maintenance and take control in emergencies. This was an emergency. 
It was the work of a few milliseconds to pry open the Isaac shell and boot the reef out. Robbie had never done this, but he was still flawless. Some of his probabilistic subsystems had concluded that this was a possibility several trillion cycles previously and had been rehearsing the task below Robbie’s threshold for consciousness. 
He left an instance of himself running on the row-boat, of course. Unlike many humans, Robbie was comfortable with the idea of bifurcating and merging his intelligence when the time came and with terminating temporary instances. The part that made him Robbie was a lot more clearly delineated for him—unlike an uploaded human, most of whom harbored some deep, mystic superstitions about their “souls.” 
“I don’t know,” said Lexy, surprised. “Has he blue eyes?” 
There was an instant’s silence. Then the voice spoke again, a little unsteadily. 
“I—I believe so.” 
“He’s laughing at me!” thought Lexy indignantly, and her voice became severely dignified. 
“Can you tell me where the—the Mazell has gone?” 
“Thank you!” said Lexy. “And that’s that!” she added, to herself. “So he’s a sailor! I rather like sailors. Well, anyhow, he’s gone.” She sighed. “Carry on!” she said. 
She went into a tea room on Forty-Second Street and ordered herself a very good lunch. 
“Much better than I can afford,” she thought. “Goodness knows what’s going to happen to me! Here I am, without visible means of support. I suppose I’m an idiot. Lots of people would say so. They’d say I ought to be looking for a new job this instant; but I don’t care! I’m not going back on Caroline. Mrs. Enderby won’t do anything, and Mr. Houseman’s gone away, and there’s nobody but me. Perhaps I can’t do very much, but, by jiminy, I’m going to try!” 
"That room next to your office. The steel door. What's in—?" 
"That's the heart of Baalum ." Pride in his voice. "The real reason I'm here." 
"You mean drug research?" 
#######He nodded. "Did you know the Central American rain forest easily contains a hundred thousand plant species? Over half of all pharmaceutical drugs are derived from plants, yet less than one percent of those here have been tested for phar­macological potential. Still, the old shamans and midwives all know of herbs they claim can cure everything from men­strual cramps to cancer." He smiled. "They also know which ones have powerful contraceptive properties, which is par­ticularly helpful in my primary study, fertility and fetal vi­ability. I take the specimens they bring and perform a rough screening in the lab to determine if they're actually pharma­cologically active. If they do test positive, I then examine their effect on the blastocyst, the early form of embryonic cell formed just after fertilization, to see whether they affect cell division and viability and . . . the miscarriage rate here is very low, so some of these plants . . ." His voice trailed off as he pushed open the door of a suite at the end of the hall. It had a stone floor, a simple bed, and through the slatted windows the light of midday filtered through, along with the birdcalls of the rain forest. Any other time and place, I'd have felt like I was staying at a rustic nature retreat. 
"I'm not surprised," he said. "It must be expensive." 
"You can't buy your way in," she said. "You have to work it off. It's a co-op. I planted this whole row of trees." She waved her arm, sloshing a little daquiri on the odd turf their loungers rested on. "I planted the mint garden over there." It was a beautiful little patch, decorated with rocks and favored with a small stream that wended its way through them. 
"Forgive me for saying this," he said, "but you must earn a lot of money. A lot , I'm thinking." She nodded, unembarrassed, even waggled her eyebrows a bit. "So you could, I don't know, you could probably build one of these on any of the buildings that Viktor owns in Manhattan. Just like this. Even keep a little staff on board. Give out memberships as perks for your senior management team." 
"That's right," she said. "I could." 
He drank his daquiri. "I'm supposed to figure out why you don't, right?" 
She nodded. "Indeed." She drank. Her face suffused with pleasure. He took a moment to pay attention to the signals his tongue was transmitting to him. The drink was incredible . Even the glass was beautiful, thick, handblown, irregular. "Listen, Leon, I'll let you in on a secret. I want you to succeed . There's not much that surprises Viktor and even less that pleasantly surprises him. If you were to manage it..." She took another sip and looked intensely at him. He squirmed. Had he thought her matronly and sweet? She looked like she could lead a guerilla force. Like she could wrestle a mugger to the ground and kick the shit out of him. 
"How?" 
Diggs shudders and shakes his head. "I didn't see it. I was on my round, get it? I heard this noise like bunch of guys stomping down one of the lateral passages, then this— this sort of screech, only distant, echoing, like it was coming through one of the vents. Sounded like a hull breach, that was my first thought. So I sprinted back to the checkpoint to see what was going on." Diggs pauses, places the heel of his palm against his forehead and rubs it around. "And the lights start to go about then. Not going out, like we was blowing fuses, but exploding like fireworks. I'm think catastrophic depressurization, you get me? I'm thinking about the environmental suits back at the checkpoint, and I hit that last curve, right around the lift, and there's the desk turned over and my guys gone. And blood. That's when I called you." 
"And then what?" 
"Then I knew I had to see, Mr. Marlowe. I couldn't abandon my guys, because about then I'm also thinking about the murder of that boy, and I'm getting that same sort of feeling like there's somebody around, rasping against the deckplate just beyond my line of sight. Then the murmuring, like the way the wind in the autumn would sluice down from the mountains, through the hollers. Sounds like voices, you know? Like deep voices and old men chanting, echoed. I went looking, Mr. Marlowe, and like the book says, seek and you shall find, 
"I know; but I can't understand how you can abide her." 
"I not only abide, I love her!" exclaimed Rebecca. "I wouldn't let the sun shine too hot on her, or the wind blow too cold. I'd like to put a marble platform in her class-room and have her sit in a velvet chair behind a golden table!" 
"Well, don't have a fit!—because she can sit where she likes for all of me; I've got something better to think of," and Huldah tossed her head. 
"Isn't this your study hour?" asked Emma Jane, to stop possible discussion. 
"Yes, but I lost my Latin grammar yesterday; I left it in the hall half an hour while I was having a regular scene with Herbert Dunn. I haven't spoken to him for a week and gave him back his class pin. He was simply furious. Then when I came back to the hall, the book was gone. I had to go down town for my gloves and to the principal's office to see if the grammar had been handed in, and that's the reason I'm so fine." 
Huldah was wearing a woolen dress that had once been gray, but had been dyed a brilliant blue. She had added three rows of white braid and large white pearl buttons to her gray jacket, in order to make it a little more "dressy." Her gray felt hat had a white feather on it, and a white tissue veil with large black dots made her delicate skin look brilliant. Rebecca thought how lovely the knot of red hair looked under the hat behind, and how the color of the front had been dulled by incessant frizzing with curling irons. Her open jacket disclosed a galaxy of souvenirs pinned to the background of bright blue,—a small American flag, a button of the Wareham Rowing Club, and one or two society pins. 
She was proud that when the bread was bad, she and the other diggers cursed the enemy and not the city. Everyone knew that no one had it any better. They fought and suffered together. 
But she was so hungry all the time, and you couldn’t eat pride. One day she was in the queue for bread and reached out with her trembling hands to take her ration and then she turned with it and in a flash, a man old enough to be her father had snatched it out of her hands and run away with it! 
She chased after him and the shrill cries of the women followed them, but he knew the rubble-piles well and he dodged and weaved and she was so tired. Eventually she sat down and wept. 
That was when she saw her first zombie. Zombiism had been eliminated when she was practically a baby, just after the revolution, years and years ago. 
But now it was back. The zombie had been a soldier, so maybe zombiism was coming back in the gas attacks that wafted over the trenches. His uniform hung in rags from his loose limbs as he walked in that funky, disco-dancer shuffle that meant zombie as clearly as the open drooling mouth and the staring, not-seeing eyes. They were fast, zombies, though you could hardly believe it when they were doing that funky walk. Once they saw prey, they turned into race horses that tore over anything and everything in their quest to rip and bite and rend and tear, screaming incoherencies with just enough words in them to make it clear that they were angry—so so angry. 
“What about my brother?” 
Sarah shrugged helplessly. The kettle started to shriek. “Here, 
I’ll get that,” she said, handing Liam to his mother who hugged him close, stroking his hair. 
“Your brother sounds nice,” Marita said. 
“He is. Just not very smart. When I was little, I thought he could take care of everything. But he can’t even take care of him- self. That’s why ...” I choked up. Anger would have felt better. It usually came to my rescue when something made me feel this bad. 
But I didn’t feel angry. Just disappointed and sad. And confused, 
because I didn’t think Sarah would give up so easily. So close, and it was all falling apart. 
“The problem with Danny is he’s scared.” Marita stroked the baby’s curls and smiled down at him when he squirmed and grabbed a handful of her hair. “Oh, he brags about how he can blow things up, but he doesn’t really know anything about explo- sives. His uncle took him to watch a demolition once, but he never learned how to do any of that himself. He tells stories because he wants other guys to look up to him. Stupid macho stuff.” 
I can draw faster than that, I thought. But I couldn’t do what really mattered. 
“What happened?” said Checker softly. 
I stared down into the cider. The steam coming off it burned my face and made my eyes water. “I think I lost something,” I said. 
He waited. 
“I don’t know if I can explain it,” I mumbled. “Working with Halliday...I hadn’t realized, before. I can’t...I used to be able to do that.” 
“Do what?” asked Checker gently. 
“The...the spark.” I wasn’t sure what to call it. “The leap...the inspiration, or intuition, or—I can’t...I can’t do it. I can’t do...math. Not real math. Not the type that counts.” My voice crackled around the edges. 
He digested that. I wasn’t sure what I would do if he told me just to keep on, that he knew I could do it, or some bullshit like that. Or, worse, if he told me it wasn’t important, that lots of people couldn’t do it, that this was a minor thing, a nothing thing—because it didn’t matter if other people couldn’t; other people had husbands and wives and children and hobbies and passions and lives, but mathematics was the only thing I had, the only thing that made me worth anything at all. And the one piece of it that made me a person ...it was gone. 
"I just wanted to say good bye, and thanks. I suspect I'm not going to see you again." 
Off in the distance now, the sound of the Securitat van's happy little song. His pan let him know that he was breathing quickly and shallowly and he slowed his breathing down until it let up on him. 
"Lawrence?" 
He hung up. The Securitat van was visible now, streaking toward the Campus wall. 
He closed his eyes and watched the blue satin ribbons tumble, like silky water licking over a waterfall. He could get to the place that took him to anywhere. That was all that mattered. 
The thing that Arthur liked best about owning his own shop was that he could stock whatever he pleased, and if you didn't like it, you could just shop somewhere else. So there in the window were four ancient Cluedo sets rescued from a car-boot sale in Sussex; a pair of trousers sewn from a salvaged WWII bivouac tent; a small card advertising the availability of artisanal truffles hand-made by an autistically gifted chocolatier in Islington; a brick of Pu'er tea that had been made in Guyana by a Chinese family who'd emigrated a full century previous; and, just as of now, six small, handsomely made books. 
“True, you have no way of being sure of my word. However,” she added, with the slightest hint at a conspiratorial smile, “at least you will know what answer I choose to give you.” 
Jesus Christ. I stared at her, my mouth dropping open slightly. She knew me better than I knew myself. As much as I was opposed to going along with her on anything, I was constitutionally incapable of not taking her up on such an offer. More information was always more information, no matter how little I trusted the source—after all, I would at least be able to file away the particular answers she chose to give me as the answers Dawna Polk would choose to give me. And that could tell me something, right? 
Ridiculous. Was I honestly thinking about trying to match wits with someone who was literally psychic? 
And yet, she was offering to tell me anything I wanted, and that meant I had to ask. I had to know. 
Oh, hell. 
“Fine,” I said, redoubling my brain’s furious churning through its mental mathematics as I tried to dispel the sinking certainty that I was about to play right into Dawna’s hands. I fancied I could feel the ground giving way beneath my feet, but I couldn’t stop myself. “To start off with, your high and mighty motives are all well and good, but I want to know what kind of game you’ve been running on me in particular. And why. You say that trying to kill me or locking me up is all for the greater good because I’d make trouble, but you’re the one who dragged me into all this in the first place, remember? If you own the cartels, why let someone you’ve brainwashed into being your pawn get captured by them? And why fake a contact from Rio to hire me to get her back out? It doesn’t make any sense.” 
But this is different. I really think he might be up to something.” 
Jankovich and Martens looked at each other, then Jankovich glanced at her watch and tapped it. “Look, I promised somebody I’d give 'em a call. Back in a minute.” 
For the next five minutes Martens made small talk with Nikko, 
asking him what he was studying in school, what plays he had acted in, deflecting Nikko’s questions about how he could help, 
even though he was technically a minor. Then Jankovich came back into the room. She gave Martens a little nod before taking her chair again. 
“Okay, here’s the thing,” Martens said. “We’re taking this seri- ously, okay? We need to find out if this guy’s for real or if he’s just blowing smoke.” 
“I could introduce him to one of your agents, somebody undercover.” 
“I’ll bet you could. The questions you asked? Nicely done. 
You’d make one hell of an interrogator.” He turned to Jankovich. 
“I want to recruit this young man when he’s a little older. Sorry Janet. I got first dibs.” 
That's what I was doing. Over twenty thousand civil lawsuits were filed against the DHS in the week after the Governor's announcement. Mine was being handled by the ACLU, and they'd filed motions to get at the results of the closed military tribunals. So far, the courts were pretty sympathetic to this. 
But I hadn't expected this. 
"She got off totally Scot-free?" 
"The press release doesn't say much. 'After a thorough examination of the events in San Francisco and in the special anti-terror detention center on Treasure Island, it is the finding of this tribunal that Ms Johnstone's actions do not warrant further discipline.' There's that word, 'further' -- like they've already punished her." 
I snorted. I'd dreamed of Carrie Johnstone nearly every night since I was released from Gitmo-by-the-Bay. I'd seen her face looming over mine, that little snarly smile as she told the man to give me a "drink." 
"Marcus --" Barbara said, but I cut her off. 
"It's fine. It's fine. I'm going to do a video about this. Get it out over the weekend. Mondays are big days for viral video. Everyone'll be coming back from the holiday weekend, looking for something funny to forward around school or the office." 
“But why?” Arthur sounded lost. 
I was, too, to be honest. “I have no idea, but I think we need to find out.” 
“We need to find Sonya,” said Arthur, pulling out his phone. 
“What am I going to do?” Zhang raised his powder-coated face to us, his voice barely above a whisper. “What have I done?” 
Arthur considered. “Your bosses, where they think you at?” 
“At work—I left myself swiped in—” 
“Oh, I’m sure they’re on their way,” I said. “We just happened to be closer. I’m guessing this place will be overrun with federal agents in about, oh, three minutes or so.” 
Zhang blinked rapidly, and a few more tears squeezed out of his eyes behind his glasses. “I thought I was—I was trying to do a good thing—the best thing—” 
“Shit,” Arthur said softly. I knew what he was thinking: Zhang would be ruined for this. Not just fired—arrested. Thrown in prison for a long, long time. 
I wasn’t sure that should bother us, frankly. 
Except...I knew it would bother Halliday. And the way Arthur was looking down at Zhang with an intense, arresting sort of expression said he was about to go into full-on savior mode. 
George Grey heard her. He was in the sitting room, smoking, and apparently reading a book; but he never turned a page. He lit one cigarette after another, and his hand was steady. He looked as he always looked—fastidiously neat, self-possessed, and a little haughty; but in spirit he was suffering horribly. 
Lexy knew that as soon as she saw him, because she knew him and liked him so well. She held out her hand to him, not even pretending to smile, but searching his face with an anxious and friendly glance. 
“Here’s Mr. Houseman, Caroline Enderby’s fiancé ,” she said. “I’ve told him the whole thing, so if there’s anything new—” 
Captain Grey stiffened perceptibly. He couldn’t see what possible connection anybody’s fiancé could have with his affairs. He shook hands with Houseman, but not very nicely; and Houseman was not excessively cordial. 
Lexy took no notice of this nonsense. Her mood of happy confidence had passed now, and the dark and mysterious shadow had come back. There was something of greater importance to think about than her personal affairs. 
“I’ve got to speak to you,” he said. 
“It’s—look here! I’ve been waiting outside the house all morning. Look here, please! You’re Lexy, aren’t you?” 
This was a little too much! 
“If you don’t stop bothering me this instant—” she began hotly, but he paid no heed. 
“ Where’s Miss Enderby?” he cried. 
Lexy grew very pale. Those were the words she had heard over the telephone last night, and this was the same voice. 
For a moment she was silent, staring at him, while he looked back at her, his blue eyes searching her face with a look of desperate entreaty. All her doubts vanished. She had not been wrong. She had been right—she was sure of it. She knew that something had happened—something inexplicable and dreadful. 
“Please tell me!” he said. “You don’t know—you can’t know—she told me you were her friend.” 
“But who are you?” cried Lexy. 
His face flushed under the sunburn. 
“I—” he began, and stopped. “I’m afraid I can’t tell you,” he went on. “I’d like to, but, you see, I can’t. If you’ll just tell me where Car—Miss Enderby is! She’s safe at home, isn’t she? She—of course she is! She must be! She—she is, isn’t she?” 
Because it was the tech wastes, after all, where the Terran conventions for mech use got no play, where all the mech hackers fled to play with nano and pico scales and sell their augmentations to the highest bidders. No one knew what Shepherd looked like because he had implanted a dozen score scutter picomech assemblers beneath his dermal layer. He changed his appearance, his form, his gender, his vocal modulation to suit his mood or his circumstance. His features morphed from pre-programmed profile to profile on verbal command, 
melting and making him like so much wax. Complete structural redesign on the fly; the perfect technological chameleon. 
Shepherd got dead because he got careless and assumed that in Totansk, beneath the lurid neon sky, he was among friends. Ray dropped him in an alley behind a rowdy waste tavern and jammed a long and gleaming knife up under his ribs, and when Shepherd expired, his assemblers went berserk from the chemical-electrical cataclysms of dying. His flesh bubbled, melted, steamed. It stretched like taffy and shuddered like gelatin. It erupted like geysers of superheated lava in a lake of molten fire, and when it was over, what remained of the  Lilaiken arms merchant had been a twisted wreckage of bone and tallow and human disaster. 
"Oh," Randy said. He was a black silhouette in the doorway. "Well, you know. Honor among thieves. Rank hath its privileges." 
"They were caught," he said. 
"Everyone gets caught," Randy said. 
"I suppose it's easy when everybody is guilty." He thought of Posy. "You just pick a skillset, find someone with those skills, and then figure out what that person is guilty of. Recruiting made simple." 
"Not so simple as all that," Randy said. "You'd be amazed at the difficulties we face." 
"Zbigniew Krotoski was one of yours." 
Randy's silhouette -- now resolving into features, clothes (another sweater, this one with a high collar and squared-off shoulders) -- made a little movement that Lawrence knew meant yes. Randy was all tells, no matter how suave and collected he seemed. He must have been really up to something when they caught him. 
"Come along," Randy said again, and extended a hand to him. He allowed himself to be lifted. The scabs at his knees made crackling noises and there was the hot wet feeling of fresh blood on his calves. 
"Just for five minutes," I declared, reaching for feigned helplessness. 
"Well, let me call upstairs," he muttered, realizing, I sup­pose, that the best way to get rid of me was to kick me up the chain of command, "and see if Mr. Morton can take a moment to meet with you." 
It worked. The next thing I knew, I was in the office of a good-looking diplomat named Barry Morton—gray temples, tailored suit, rugged face of a sixty-year-old soap-opera heartthrob who plays tennis and keeps a mistress. Chief In­formation Officer. 
"Actually, I do remember her, vaguely," Morton declared, flashing me his professional smile. "The Crenshaw girl was an unfortunate case. To begin with, anybody who overstays their visa that long gets us in a lot of hot water with the locals. They always tend to blame us, Ms. . . ." 
"James. My name's Morgan James." 
"Ms. James." Another of those smiles. "Frankly, I don't know what to tell you, though." He shrugged, exuding helplessness. "It's hard to keep track of every American tourist who comes and goes through this country. Some of the hippie types end up in a mountain village somewhere, gone native. In this instance, as I recall, we got her out on a medevac." 
He always had a higher opinion of me than was warranted, but at this particular moment I wanted to deck him for it. Instead I just didn’t correct him. 
I parted ways with Arthur and jetted my sport bike up to Van Nuys, a slightly less glamorous neighborhood in the Valley where people who weren’t movie stars could afford to live. I parked the motorcycle a few blocks from Checker’s house and snuck around the block and through his backyard, just in case there were already eyes on him. Not that it would help if the men in black came knocking. Fucking NSA. 
Checker’s computer cluster and workspace was a converted garage he had affectionately nicknamed “The Hole,” and I pushed open the side entrance to find it a flurry of activity. The space was already crowded, what with the stacks of computer towers and monitors wallpapering it on all sides, and in the small space in the middle Checker was zipping his wheelchair back and forth and throwing tablet computers at Pilar while trying to tell her things she obviously already knew. 
or just circle jerking because the protocols said somebody had to write something up, text was what it was all about. Because text was immutable. Text defined history, even ignored history. 
Oh, and appropriations committees loved text. They loved volumes of text, especially at budget time. Military need some cash and the silver-tongued orators with brass on their shoulders not able to hold a congressman's ear? How 'bout we just truck to the Forum Clave about ten million pages of last month's reports? Show them what they're getting for their money. Prove to them that we've done something of value in the last year. It's all right there in the text, provided you've got the clearance to read it. 
The military loves text. Loves it so much that they print instructions on all of their weapons so any yahoo that picks up a gun they've never even seen before can be an expert on it in something like thirty seconds flat. 
The Criminal Investigations Unit hates text for all the reasons that the military loves it. With text comes accountability. Text is fundamentally insecure because it is open to interpretation, because it ends up in the wrong hands, because it inspires questions in people who don't know enough about what's going on to reach the right conclusions. The CIU doesn't care about explaining itself to its detractors, only about achieving results. It's willing to let the body counts it generates speak for themselves. 
Mr. Houseman leaned forward and whispered solemnly: “There was a tempest in a teapot.” 
This frightened her. 
“Do you think there’s going to be another one?” she whispered back. 
“Sure to be!” said he. “Don’t you see how dark it’s getting?” 
It was getting very dark. Lexy couldn’t see his face now. 
“Hold my hand!” he shouted, and she reached out for it; but she couldn’t find him at all. 
“Mr. Houseman!” she cried. 
There was no answer. She stared about her, numb with terror. What was it that rustled like that? What were these black, tall things that were standing motionless about her on every side? 
“I’ve been dreaming,” she said to herself. “I’m in my own room, of course. If I go just a few steps, I’ll touch the wall. I’m awake now—only it’s so dark!” 
And what was it that rustled like that—like leaves in the wind? What were these black, still forms about her? Trees? No—they couldn’t be trees. 
In a wild panic she moved forward. Her outstretched hand touched something, and she screamed. The scream seemed to run along through the dark, leaping and rolling over the ground like a terrified animal. She tried to run after it, stumbling and panting, until her shoulder struck violently against something, and she stopped. 
"Then come with me." 
his face crimson and he's missed the bottom button on his tunic so that his collar is uneven. 
Ray doesn't give him a chance to start asking questions. He doesn't have time to bring Becker up to speed in detail, which he knows is exactly what the Security Chief would want. 
He says, "You know that thing we decided wasn't happening? Looks like we were wrong." 
Becker gulps a breath. "A shedT "Took out your entire security team on this deck, save Mr. Diggs here, and has taken off for parts unknown. 
Kilgore, Rodriguez and I are going to hunt it down. You and Bobby are going to handle this deck and coordinate our movements as necessary. Notify security to seal off access to Pi and Sigma and any other decks about which I may contact you in the near future. I am the last person to tell anyone else how to do their job, but I'd strongly recommend that you get some reinforcements and some illumination down here as soon as humanly possibly and secure your perimeter." 
Though he didn't know how much that sort of thing would help. Probably just give any random sheds strolling the deck more buffet options. 
This time was no exception. Her mind appeared to be concentrated wholly on whatever she was here about; she barely made eye contact. “Ms. Russell,” she said, very formally and with no hint of irony, “I want to apologize for what is about to happen here.” 
“What’s that supposed to mean?” I asked. “Are you finally going to kill us?” 
“I’m not a sadist,” said Dawna quietly, avoiding the question. “I want you to know I sincerely regret doing this to you.” 
Arthur edged forward. I ignored him; we hadn’t exchanged three words in as many days. “What’s going on?” he asked. He had taken hold of the bars and gripped them like he planned to dent them. “You promised not to hurt her. You promised.” 
Huh. Brainwashed-Arthur’s primary motive might be getting Rio offed, but he was still concerned about my welfare, such as it was. Who knew. 
Dawna nodded to the PI. “I did say that. I’m afraid it cannot be helped. My apologies to you, as well.” 
“You can’t—you swore to me—” Tresting’s eyes darted around like a cornered animal’s. “Take me instead,” he offered suddenly. I blinked at him in shock. I hadn’t realized he was that concerned. Or was this his “all life is valuable” schtick? Whatever the reason, Tresting was hyperventilating, tension cording his body. “Whatever you’re planning, whatever you need someone for, take me instead,” he implored Dawna. “I did this, my doing, I—leave her out of it. Please.” 
“My name is Felix Tremont,” he said, getting up on one of the tables, drawing out his PDA. “I want to read you something. 
“‘Governments of the Industrial World, you weary giants of flesh and steel, I come from Cyberspace, the new home of Mind. On behalf of the future, I ask you of the past to leave us alone. You are not welcome among us. You have no sovereignty where we gather. 
“‘We have no elected government, nor are we likely to have one, so I address you with no greater authority than that with which liberty itself always speaks. I declare the global social space we are building to be naturally independent of the tyrannies you seek to impose on us. You have no moral right to rule us nor do you possess any methods of enforcement we have true reason to fear. 
“‘Governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed. You have neither solicited nor received ours. We did not invite you. You do not know us, nor do you know our world. Cyberspace does not lie within your borders. Do not think that you can build it, as though it were a public construction project. You cannot. It is an act of nature and it grows itself through our collective actions.’ 
She turned away, then, in haste to get back to Mrs. Enderby, but he stopped her. 
“Remember!” he said sternly. “I’ve trusted you. If Caroline hasn’t told her people about me, you mustn’t mention my name. I gave her my word that I would let her do the telling. I didn’t want it that way, but I promised her, and you’ve got to do the same. If she hasn’t told about me, you’re not to.” 
“Oh, Lord!” cried poor Lexy. “Well, all right, I won’t! Now, for goodness’ sake, go away, and let me alone—to do the best I can!” 
Lexy was late. The half hour had been considerably exceeded when she ran up the steps of the Enderbys house. She rang the bell, and the door was opened promptly by Annie. 
“Mrs. Enderby would like to see you at once, miss,” the parlor maid said primly. 
But Lexy stopped to look covertly at Annie. Did she know anything? It was possible. Anything was possible now. Lexy was obliged to admit, however, that Annie had no appearance of guilt or mystery. A brisk and sober woman of middle age, who had been with the family for nearly ten years, she looked nothing more or less than disapproving because this young person had presumed to keep Mrs. Enderby waiting for several minutes. 
“Look out!” cried Mr. Houseman. “She’s going about!” 
Lexy laughed, and ducked down into the cockpit while the boom swung over. The little sailboat was flying over the sunny water like a bird. There was not a cloud in the pure bright sky, not a shadow in her joyous heart. 
“I am so glad you came!” she said. 
“Of course I came,” he answered. “I had to swim all the way from India.” 
“Mercy!” cried Lexy. “That must have been dreadful! But why?” 
Mr. Houseman leaned forward and whispered solemnly: “There was a tempest in a teapot.” 
This frightened her. 
“Do you think there’s going to be another one?” she whispered back. 
“Sure to be!” said he. “Don’t you see how dark it’s getting?” 
It was getting very dark. Lexy couldn’t see his face now. 
“Hold my hand!” he shouted, and she reached out for it; but she couldn’t find him at all. 
“Mr. Houseman!” she cried. 
There was no answer. She stared about her, numb with terror. What was it that rustled like that? What were these black, tall things that were standing motionless about her on every side? 
These little buggers were different, though. He reached into the window -- the shop was so small he could reach it without leaving his stool behind the till -- and plucked one out and handed it to the kid who'd just asked for it. She was about 15, with awkward hair and skin and posture and so on, but the gleam in her eye that said, "Where have you been all my life?" as he handed her the book. 
"They're all carrying them in school," she said. "Never thought I'd find one in a shop, though. How much?" 
Arthur compared the book to his cheat-sheet behind the counter. This one had a cover made from old Hacks tins, resurfaced with a spectral spiderweb of rotting Irish lace. The chapters within had a whopping aggregate score of 98 percent, meaning that 98 percent of the writing community had rated them aces or above. Even before he looked to the price column on his sheet, he knew he was going to have to disappoint her. 
"That one's seventy quid, love," he said. He armored himself for the inevitable shock, disbelief and protestation, but she just hung her head, resigned. 
Anyway, I do know I snapped. I started shouting again, and with the G-2 hoods momentarily frozen, I started fling­ing the still-empty bassinets down the steep side of the pyra­mid, where they just bounced away into the rain. As I watched them disappearing, one after another, I felt marvelously em­boldened. I would throw one and watch it go flying, and then I would throw another. Yes, damn it, yes! 
I wanted to show anybody with two eyes that it was all a sham. Once they realized what was really happening, surely they would rise up and drive Alex Goddard from their home. 
For a moment it seemed to be working. A stunned silence was slowly spreading over the square, while everybody around me was paralyzed, like waxworks. Maybe it's the same way you're temporarily caught off guard when a stranger on the street goes berserk. 
By the time I'd flung away the last bassinet, the women had all removed their blindfolds and were staring at me, dumbfounded. Finally, Tz'ac Tzotz's mother whispered something to Marcelina, and she turned to me. 
A nice, Mafia shrug. "I seen nothin'." 
Frankie steps aside so they can fold themselves into the booth, well apart from the dozen or so other customers in the room. "Gino will be with in a moment. Might I recommend the house special?"  Ray doesn't know what the special is, but he nods anyway. 
Emma watches them go, then leans forward with her elbows on the table. "You come here often?" 
"Frankie takes care of me." 
"He isn't Italian, I don't think." 
"Don't tell him that. You'll destroy his confidence." Ray presses close, lowers his voice. "This is his first franchise voyage. He's made amazing leaps since Terra, believe me." 
Then, "You've never been here before?" 
Ray lifts an eyebrow. "And you never go anywhere without his escort?" 
"Not if they can stop me. " 
Like the other morning, she means. It sits there plainly between them, but Ray doesn't know how to make her actually say it, recognize it. 
"Your family seems to be heavily invested in protecting you." Big sign, red letters, neon flash: Watch Out for Thin Ice. Ray prepares to wince as she cuts him down. 
"What do you see?" 
A bunch of dead guys. 
"I just climbed off the ladder. It seems to be cognate to the ladder position on Omicron." First things first, he thinks. "You'd better direct me to the reactor control room to start. We'll want to confirm that they're still operating and warn them about trouble. How close are your guys?" 
"They're on the way. Two or three minutes at most, but the lifts are jammed with passengers shuttling between parties." 
Good for them. 
Kilgore grunts. "You might tell them to hurry, Chief, or they won't have anyone left to rescue."  "What?" It's as close to screaming as Becker is likely to get. 
Ray glares at Kilgore, makes a slicing motion across his neck. Cut it out. "We've got a few casualties," he says carefully. "Give me some direction to Reactor Control." 
A few maddening moments pass, and Ray imagines Becker sifting through the graphical schematics on the checkpoint's terminal. "Turn right down the main corridor off the ladder. Take the first gangway on your left and go about halfway down. That entire gangway is lead shielded and the walls are about two meters thick, so all the doors on your left should be deeply recessed. It's Section 44, but you should know it when you see it. 
“Do you want to see the profiteer?” Valentine said, approaching the hero. Her mother had respected this man, and Valentine decided she would respect him too. 
“I will come with you,” he said. 
“Will you bring guards? He is armed.” She thought for a minute. “I believe he’s armed.” 
“It will be fine,” he said. He showed her the heavy pistol he wore on his belt. 
“My brother has to come, too,” Valentine said. 
“That will be fine.” 
The old hero walked slowly and carefully. The soldiers he passed nodded to him and saluted him. The old people smiled and waved. Valentine came to feel proud to be at his side. Normally she was invisible in the city, just another grey, thin face, but with the old hero, she was a hero too. And she was a hero: she was about to end the war. 
The old man spoke creakingly to her as they walked. He remembered her mother, and he remembered her father. He told her stories of her mother’s bravery in the revolution, when he’d been her commander, and she felt her heart race. Valentine was a hero, like her mother. The wizard would win the war for them. 
“No,” Tresting said, overly casually. The word fell between us—soft, final, incriminating. “A busy young woman, our Courtney Polk.” 
I’d already known she wasn’t on the level, but I’d been assuming some combination of fear and naïveté. That maybe she hadn’t realized what she’d gotten into, or had been too scared to face it. “She doesn’t seem the type,” I offered, stalling. 
“Nah, she doesn’t, does she?” said Tresting. “Was an odd sort of crime. Odd in the same way these lovely motorcycle gents discovered an irredeemable hatred for you. Makes you think it wasn’t their idea.” 
“Maybe they thought it was a fun night out,” I said, stubbornly not thinking of the mines in the road or the freaking grenades, or the fact that all the biker guys I’d known had a code against baseless killing....  with the bikers, and it very well might have to do with Courtney Polk, but a mastermind theory that cast her as a hired assassin alongside them? It didn’t wash. 
“Might agree with you, if there wasn’t a pattern,” said Tresting. 
Hannah Klein. That's who I should ask. 
I was so focused, I pushed the number I had stored for her in my phone memory before I remembered it was Sunday. Instead of getting her office, I got an answering service. 
"Do you want to leave the doctor a message?" a south­ern-sounding voice enquired. 
Without thinking, I heard myself declaring, "No, this is an emergency." 
What am I saying? I asked myself. But before I could take it back, Hannah was on the line. 
I know how intruded on I feel when an actor calls me at home on Sunday to bitch. Better make this good, I told my­self. 
"I was at an infertility clinic yesterday and passed out," I began. "And now I have some herbs to take, but I'm . . . well, I'm not sure about them." 
"What 'clinic'?" she asked. There was no reprimand for calling her on Sunday morning. 
When I told her about Alex Goddard, she said little, but she did not sound impressed. Looming there between us like the dead elephant on the living room floor was the fact that she'd specifically warned me not to go near him. And after what had just happened, there was a good case she might be right. 
I was out of patience. “Fine. My name is Bridget Twitwaffle. Stick that in your fancy computers.” 
Her stare was getting intense. I pretended not to notice and studied the ceiling instead. 
“What happened in there?” Jones asked. Demanded, really, but at least we were off the name thing. 
“I tracked down Professor Halliday and rescued her,” I answered. 
“And your wise ass is going to give me a detailed account of every aspect of that statement, or I’m throwing you in a hole so deep light can’t hit the bottom. You read me?” 
Yeah, I understood, her sloppy physics metaphor notwithstanding. “And if I do that?” 
“Then we’ll see.” 
I gambled. “I want some guarantees.” 
She snorted a laugh. “Rich.” 
“I bet I can find who stole Halliday’s proof to begin with,” I said. Remarkably efficient, she had called me. “You said we can be on the same side. I’m willing to give that a go.” 
Her cheek twitched. “Because you were such a team player the first time around.” 
“You implanted a tracker in me!” 
She shook her head. “Here’s how this is going to work. You tell us everything you know about Halliday, and you give us your real identity and any aliases. If we feel like you’d be an asset at that point, we’ll talk. If not...we’ll have a different talk.” 
If Rio hadn’t called Dawna, however, then someone else had a motive for rescuing Courtney—and this mystery conspirator had kept me from being suspicious of the job by using Rio’s name. Which meant said unknown person not only knew way too much about Rio and me and our strange not-friendship, but was one hundred percent aware of Rio’s cover. 
Rio was compromised. I felt sick. Our conversation would have tipped him off, and he could take care of himself, but still... 
I picked up the phone again and called Dawna’s work number. 
Her secretary answered, and hemmed and hawed about her boss being in a meeting, but apparently Dawna cared a lot more about her sister than whatever she was doing at work, because mere seconds later her voice came fast and breathless over the line. “Did you find her? Is she okay? Oh my God—did they hurt her?” 
“She’s fine!” I raised my voice to cut in over her frantic queries. “ Fine! She’s sleeping right now.” 
“Oh—Ms. Russell, I don’t know how to thank you. I just—she’s my little sister; I can’t— thank you—” 
Meatloaf shook his head. "Radio radiates. I can't see the cell-tower, but I can still reach it with my phone." 
"That's dumb radio," Lee-Daniel said. "If we want to have a conversation and we're out of sight of one another, we can communicate, but only if we shout. That's fine for us, but it's not so good for the people between us, right, Mortimer?" 
Mortimer, who'd been through one or two (hundred) of these demos before, took his cue from outside the doorway, hitting it with the loudhailer dialed up about half way. "Right," he said. 
"That's how dumb radio works. You had a bunch of bands that you could communicate in -- cellular, TV, AM, FM, cops, air-traffic, whatever -- and rules and licenses for each, governing how loud everyone gets to shout." Taking their cues, the CogRads started to gabble all at once, in stripes through the ranked chairs, saying "AM AM AM" or "TV TV TV" or "cellular cellular cellular." 
"Smart radio -- cognitive radio -- is much more clever. Instead of shouting loud enough to be heard across the entire distance, cognitive radios cooperate with one another. When I need to talk to Mortimer, I first check around to see what channels are least occupied and most close to me, then I send my message to the best candidate." He turned to Elaine, who'd come to stand by his shoulder. "Tell Mortimer that it's time to come back," he said. 
trying to unbutton it. I pushed them away and slid toward the edge of the bed, but he grabbed my wrist, tight. “Where you going?” 
“Too much wine.” I giggled like a maniac, resisting the urge to yank my wrist out of his grasp. “Got to use the john again. I’ll be right back.” 
He pulled my hand close and gave my knuckles a romantic kiss, but his words sounded angry. “Don’t be long.” 
“I won’t!” My giggling threatened to get out of control as I hur- ried through the kitchen into the little bathroom. I locked myself on in and sat on the toilet, shaking. In the other room I heard his slurring sing-song voice, “Hey, getting lonely out here.” 
“Just a minute,” I called out, staring at the door. It was a flimsy little lock. I remembered how strong his hands had felt. One good pull and he would be able to yank it open. There was a window over the toilet, but it was tiny, much too small for me to climb through. 
I remembered to switch off the camera, finally, and looked around for a weapon. There was a can of Axe I could spray into his eyes. If I broke the spotty mirror over the sink, I might be able to pull out a shard to stab him with. I could probably find a knife in the kitchen but I was too scared to unlock the door. 
Hold on. How far do I have to play along to stay in his chess game? 
Then I glanced down again at the tray. "And what's in that...  so I've had Marcelina prepare you a healthy broth of soy extract and buckwheat and rainforest herbs that—" 
"What kind of rainforest herbs exactly?" I was starving, but no way in hell "Medicinal ones. Part of your program of wholeness." He turned, with that faraway look of his, and opened the window slats. Beyond them I could see foliage, now alive with flocks of multicolored birds. The forest was in full cry. "You know, so many drugs are waiting to be discovered up here." He was gazing out. "Beyond this window is a giant pharmacy, but if it goes like the rest of the Peten, it'll soon be bulldozed to make way for more cattle ranches." 
He came back and picked up the syringe. That was when I noticed it didn't seem to be entirely empty. It appeared to contain traces of a yellow substance, though maybe I was imagining. . . . 
"Look, about the blood test. I don't think—" 
"We are not selling for our own benefit," said Rebecca confidentially. "My friend who is holding the horse at the gate is the daughter of a very rich blacksmith, and doesn't need any money. I am poor, but I live with my aunts in a brick house, and of course they wouldn't like me to be a peddler. We are trying to get a premium for some friends of ours." 
Rebecca had never thought of alluding to the circumstances with her previous customers, but unexpectedly she found herself describing Mr. Simpson, Mrs. Simpson, and the Simpson family; their poverty, their joyless life, and their abject need of a banquet lamp to brighten their existence. 
"You needn't argue that point," laughed the man, as he stood up to get a glimpse of the "rich blacksmith's daughter" at the gate. "I can see that they ought to have it if they want it, and especially if you want them to have it. I've known what it was myself to do without a banquet lamp. Now give me the circular, and let's do some figuring. How much do the Simpsons lack at this moment?" 
madam, read on.” 
She gave him a narrow-eyed look. “So the other alternative . . 
.” she said, droning her way through it all. 
“I figured you were involved,” Nikko said out of the side of his mouth like a film noir gangster, staring at the flowchart as if he found it fascinating. 
“I don’t know any of those people.” 
“They have a website, a Facebook page, a Twitter account, a YouTube channel. Want to come to the rally with me? I’ll pick you up if you want.” 
“You don’t have a car.” 
“I could borrow one.” 
“I’ll ride my bike.” I didn’t really want to go to a rally. Wilson went to them all the time and acted like he was doing something important, even though they never actually fixed anything. But Nikko was trying to be nice. And I liked being with Nikko. 
Dave arrived finally, giving some long explanation about car problems and traffic until Marcella cut him off. 
“You’re late,” she said and handed him a flowchart. 
He gave her a winning smile. It didn’t work. Marcella doesn’t get smiles. She was about to launch into her explanation for the third time when I broke in. “I vote for the second option. The one in green.” 
"Will it be hard? I mean, how long would it take?" 
"Well, there's tons of crypto code for free online, of course," Jolu said. He was doing the thing he did when he was digging into a meaty code problem -- getting that faraway look, drumming his palms on the...  saucers. I wanted to laugh -- everything might be destroyed and crap and scary, but Jolu would write that code. 
"Can I help?" 
He looked at me. "What, you don't think I can manage it?" 
"What?" 
"I mean, you did this whole Xnet thing without even telling me. Without talking to me. I kind of thought that you didn't need my help with this stuff." 
I was brought up short. "What?" I said again. Jolu was looking really steamed now. It was clear that this had been eating him for a long time. "Jolu --" 
He looked at me and I could see that he was furious. How had I missed this? God, I was such an idiot sometimes. "Look dude, it's not a big deal --" by which he clearly meant that it was a really big deal "-- it's just that you know, you never even asked . I hate the DHS. Darryl was my friend too. I could have really helped with it." 
“You live in a country where it is illegal to express certain mathematics in software, where state apparatchiks regulate all innovation, where inconvenient science is criminalized, where whole avenues of experimentation and research are shut down in the service of a half-baked superstition about the moral qualities of your three laws, and you call my home corrupt? Arturo, what happened to you? You weren’t always this susceptible to the Big Lie.” 
“And you didn’t use to be the kind of woman who abandoned her family,” he said. 
“The reason we’re not winning the war is that we don’t want to hurt people, but we do want to destroy your awful, stupid state. So we fight to destroy as much of your materiel as possible with as few casualties as possible. 
“You live in a failed state, Arturo. In every field, you lag Eurasia and CAFTA: medicine, art, literature, physics; All of them are subsets of computational science and your computational science is more superstition than science. I should know. In Eurasia, I have collaborators, some of whom are human, some of whom are positronic, and some of whom are a little of both—” 
The flat was just as she remembered it from that long ago night. The woman gestured at the...  to emanate from it. Valentine’d forgotten...  remembered it. 
“I’ll go wake up his majesty, then,” the woman said. “Just sit yourself down.” 
Valentine sat perched on the edge of the grand divan that twisted and curved along one wall of the sitting room. She knew that the seat of her trousers—filthy even before her tussle with the zombie—would leave black marks on its brave red upholstery. 
The conversation from down the corridor was muffled but the tone was angry. Valentine felt her cheeks go hot, even through the fever. This place was still civilized and she’d brought the war to it. 
Then the wizard came into the sitting room and waved the lights up to full bright, wincing away from the sudden illumination. He squinted at her. 
“Do I know you?” he said. 
Her tongue caught in her mouth. In his pajamas with his hair mussed, he still looked every inch the wizard. 
“I;” She couldn’t finish. “I—” She tried again. “You gave me clothes. My mother is a soldier.” 
“But certainly! She had a headache. At the last moment she decided not to go with us. You were not here when we left, Miss Moran.” 
“I know,” murmured Lexy. “I had just run out to the drug store; but—” 
“She went directly to bed,” Mrs. Enderby continued. “I thought, however, that she would have sent for you during the course of the evening.” 
“Oh, I see!” said Lexy casually. 
At heart, however, she was curiously uneasy. Mr. Enderby stopped for a moment, to give her some kindly...  Then he and his wife ascended the stairs, followed by Lexy; and with every step her uneasiness grew. She was sure that Caroline would have sent for her if she had been in the house. 
Mrs. Enderby paused outside her child’s door. 
“The light is out,” she said. “She will be asleep. I shall not disturb her. Good night, Miss Moran!” 
“Good night, Mrs. Enderby!” Lexy answered, and went into her own room. 
She gave Mrs. Enderby twenty minutes to get safely stowed away; then she went out quietly into the hall, to Caroline’s room. She knocked softly; there was no answer. She turned the handle and went in; the room was dark and very still. She switched on the light. 
“And there’s no way to fight it?” I pleaded. 
“None that I am aware of.” 
I pulled the blanket from the bed up around myself again, wrapping it close. I still felt cold. “How can I know if I’ve been affected?” 
“It is nearly impossible to tell, because you will rationalize whatever she has made you believe. You are concerned?” 
“Of course I am.” 
“Walk me through the course of events since I saw you last. It is not foolproof, but I shall tell you if I observe inconsistency.” 
And it would be good for him to have my intel in any case. I took a deep breath and started with Courtney Polk going missing, then described my night with Tresting, finding the office workers, Leena’s abrupt change, and the meeting with Finch and Steve. Rio listened quietly. I shared everything, up to and including Tresting’s and my final conversation. 
“I think that’s why I’m feeling so defensive,” I finished unhappily. “Unless Dawna Polk has been messing me up again. But he was so—he was so patronizing.” And since he had implied I was not only a thoughtless kid but one who went around killing people...“Rio, am I—do you think I’m green? Do I act like it?” 
“Felix.” It was Van, who wasn’t on call that night. 
“What are you doing here?” he asked. “No need for both of us to be wrecked tomorrow.” 
“What? Oh. My personal box is over there. It went down around 1:30 and I got woken up by my process-monitor. I should have called you and told you I was coming down—spared you the trip.” 
Felix’s own server—a box he shared with five other friends—was in a rack one floor down. He wondered if it was offline too. 
“What’s the story?” 
“Massive flashworm attack. Some jackass with a zero-day exploit has got every Windows box on the net running Monte Carlo probes on every IP block, including IPv6. The big Ciscos all run administrative interfaces over v6, and they all fall over if they get more than ten simultaneous probes, which means that just about every interchange has gone down. DNS is screwy, too—like maybe someone poisoned the zone transfer last night. Oh, and there’s an email and IM component that sends pretty lifelike messages to everyone in your address book, barfing up Eliza-dialog that keys off of your logged email and messages to get you to open a Trojan.” 
Vertigo suffused me, like I was tumbling off a ledge to plummet without any promise of a net. I jammed my foot to the floor all the way out to the desert, purposely not thinking of what I was headed out there to retrieve. 
I arrived in Hollywood a few hours early—the Lancer might already be waiting, and I had to get Martinez out of here the moment she popped...  and let my vision unfocus over the crowds. I’d only met Martinez the one time, but I was reasonably sure I’d still be able to recognize the individual mathematics of her posture and stride to pick her out of the throng. 
The sun set, but the bright cheeriness of enticing storefronts blazing across the street made it as easy to see as in the daytime. I watched and waited. 
At a little before half-past eight, Rita Martinez appeared. 
She had on a shapeless sweater covering bulky layers of clothing and a scarf over her hair, and huge sunglasses that disguised her features. She wandered toward the concert hall, sat down on a bench, and checked her watch. 
When I tried to stand, I realized my groin was tender and sore as hell, all across my panty-line, only somewhere deep, deep inside, in my reproductive . . . It was like after he'd given me those shots up at Quetzal Manor. I checked and saw no red needle-punctures this time, but the pain was much worse. That sick butterfly-jaguar dream was no dream. I'd been raped by . . . The bastard. 
I pushed aside the pain, edged across to the door, and tested it. Unlocked. Good. Go find the SOB right now. Tear his head off. 
I pulled back the door, took a deep breath, and checked out the hallway. 
Whoa! How did they get here? In the dim light I made out two uniformed Army privates down at the end near the slatted windows, dozing in folding metal chairs, their AK- 47's propped against the plaster wall. 
Why were they here? Just a cool, breezy place to hang out? Or were they in place to guard me? 
The breeze was causing the candle's flame to cast flick­ering shadows across the hall, so I quickly re-closed the door. 
She dried her eyes. "I doubt it. I don't know, though. I'm no computer scientist. How many ways are there to connect up compromised servers? How many of those would replicate his own outcomes? I have no idea." 
Without saying anything, we walked slowly together to Peyton's office. 
Peyton offered me my job back. I turned her down. I thought I might be ready for a career change. Do something with my hands, break the family tradition. Maybe installing solar panels. There was retraining money available. Peyton understood. She even agreed to handle any liability arising from the Rollover code, managing customer service calls from anyone who noticed something funny. 
The press didn't even notice that BIGMAC was gone. His Spam was news. His absence of spam was not. I guess he was right about that. The Campaign to Save BIGMAC did a lot of mailing-list gnashing at the iniquity of his being shut down, and then fell apart. Without me and BIGMAC to keep them whipped up, they were easily distracted. 
"Not so very," answered Emma Jane drowsily. 
"I've thought of something new. If you sang or painted or wrote,—not a little, but beautifully, you know,—wouldn't the doing of it, just as much as you wanted, give you the rose of joy?" 
"It might if it was a real talent," answered Emma Jane, "though I don't like it so well as love. If you have another thought, Becky, keep it till morning." 
"I did have one more inspiration," said Rebecca when they were dressing next morning, "but I didn't wake you. I wondered if the rose of joy could be sacrifice? But I think sacrifice would be a lily, not a rose; don't you?" 
The journey southward, the first glimpse of the ocean, the strange new scenes, the ease and delicious freedom, the intimacy with Miss Maxwell, almost intoxicated Rebecca. In three days she was not only herself again, she was another self, thrilling with delight, anticipation, and realization. She had always had such eager hunger for knowledge, such thirst for love, such passionate longing for the music, the beauty, the poetry of existence! She had always been straining to make the outward world conform to her inward dreams, and now life had grown all at once rich and sweet, wide and full. She was using all her natural, God-given outlets; and Emily Maxwell marveled daily at the inexhaustible way in which the girl poured out and gathered in the treasures of thought and experience that belonged to her. She was a lifegiver, altering the whole scheme of any picture she made a part of, by contributing new values. Have you never seen the dull blues and greens of a room changed, transfigured by a burst of sunshine? That seemed to Miss Maxwell the effect of Rebecca on the groups of people with whom they now and then mingled; but they were commonly alone, reading to each other and having quiet talks. The prize essay was very much on Rebecca's mind. 
"From Amah, you mean?" 
"Yes. She's afraid I'm going to try to steal you away, and that you're more than willing to be stolen. " 
"And that's not what you want?" 
Ouch. "Too early to call it." 
"Why?" 
He chuckles uncomfortably. "Because I snore. Because my feet smell bad. Because I sleep with my socks on and like to wear the same pair of skivvies two or three days in a row. I have a whole list of reasons for possible rejection, any one of which I fully suspect will bring to screeching to your senses as soon as you become aware of them. How's that?" 
But she pinches her brow, troubled. "You said the other night that I was out of your league. You're wrong about that, you know. I'm not like—I mean, I've been very sheltered. Most of my life has been spent on a frontier colony with fewer than a million people. I'm not sophisticated; I haven't traveled. I'm not who you think I am, not who anybody thinks I am." 
"Even Amah?" Ray says, arching an eyebrow. 
Emma laughs. "I used to tell people that in many ways, Amah is more Whiston than I am, than any of us are. 
"That's the deal," the Series A man said. "And I don't see anyone offering anything better." 
MacDiarmid gave him a shut-up-asshole look, then spread his hands out. 
"When I raised money from you, we did it over the course of several weeks. We talked to lawyers. They exchanged documents. I don't think it's reasonable for you to expect me to sign anything now without at least consulting a lawyer." 
"You want several weeks?" the Series A man said, with mock incredulity. 
"Half an hour," Lee-Daniel said. "I don't think that's too much to ask." 
They settled for Warrior escorts for the antennamen and the surveyors. The Warriors were resentful at first, but they came around. 
Lee-Daniel went out with a crew that Elaine was leading, up on the northern border of the sovereign. She had two junior surveyors with her, all of them loaded with positioning gear that tied into Galileo, the European GPS network -- the Galileo gear cost a fortune, but they'd found that their American GPS kit often mysteriously stopped working when they were working on projects in the territorial USA. They'd ordered the Euro stuff from a bunch of anti-globalization activists who'd found that the same thing happened in any city hosting an economic summit. Europeans were more likely to treat infrastructure as sacrosanct, while the US was only too happy to monkey with GPS for tactical reasons. 
“Lucy?” 
“Call me Sarge!” 
“Sorry, Sarge. Where’d you respawn?” 
“I’m all the way over at Body Electric—it’ll take me hours to get there. Do you think you can complete the mission on your own?” 
“Uh, sure.” Thinking, Crikey, if that’s what the guards outside were like, how’m I gonna get past the inside guards? 
“You’re the best, girl. OK, enter the cottage and kill everyone there.” 
“Uh, sure.” 
She wished she had another scrying scroll in inventory so she could get a look inside the cottage before she beat its door in, but she was fresh out of scrolls and just about everything else. 
She kicked the door in and her fingers danced. She’d killed four of her adversaries before she even noticed that they weren’t fighting back. 
In fact, they were generic avatars, maybe even non-player characters. They moved like total noobs, milling around in the little cottage. Around them were heaps of shirts, thousands and thousands of them. A couple of the noobs were sitting in the back, incredibly, still crafting more shirts, ignoring the swordswoman who’d just butchered four of their companions. 
He spared a glance for my fifteen shot glasses. “Were you ever on it?” 
“Not that wagon.” 
It took him a minute to get it. Then he said, “Oh.” 
I signaled to the bartender again. “Don’t give me that look like I kicked your puppy. See, I knew you would react this way.” 
“Want to talk about it?” said Arthur. 
That wasn’t what I had expected him to say. “No. No, I don’t. The thing is, I realized—I don’t care. I really don’t care. I don’t feel bad about it. I don’t feel any different. And it’s so much easier.” 
“Okay,” said Arthur. 
“‘Okay?’ I go back to killing people willy-nilly again and that’s all you have to say to me?” 
The bartender put down our next two shots so hastily they sloshed over his wrists before he retreated into the back and out of sight. 
Arthur made a shushing gesture and peered around the near-empty dive to see if I’d freaked out anyone else. “Ain’t saying I’m happy about it, but...well, I ain’t believe the ‘willy-nilly,’ first off. Thing is, Russell, you might say you don’t care, but I know for a fact you ain’t no killer. Don’t like you taking no hard line again, but I still got faith you only charging the guilty.” 
"What's your way?" Jolu said. "What's your plan?" 
"I don't know yet," I admitted. "Give me until tomorrow morning, give me that, at least." I knew that once they'd kept it a secret for a day, it would have to be a secret forever. Our parents would be even more skeptical if we suddenly "remembered" that we'd been held in a secret prison instead of taken care of in a refugee camp. 
Van and Jolu looked at each other. 
"I'm just asking for a chance," I said. "We'll work out the story on the way, get it straight. Give me one day, just one day." 
The other two nodded glumly and we set off downhill again, heading back towards home. I lived on Potrero Hill, Vanessa lived in the North Mission and Jolu lived in Noe Valley -- three wildly different neighborhoods just a few minutes' walk from one another. 
We turned onto Market Street and stopped dead. The street was barricaded at every corner, the cross-streets reduced to a single lane, and parked down the whole length of Market Street were big, nondescript 18-wheelers like the one that had carried us, hooded, away from the ship's docks and to Chinatown. 
Rio ignored him. “You think this is a viable plan?” he asked, handing me the phone. 
“It’s what we’ve got,” I said. 
“These are dangerous people.” 
“And since when do you care about that?” 
He raised his eyebrows. “I attach somewhat greater value to your well-being than to my own.” 
Right. He attached more value to pretty much anyone else’s well-being than he did to his own. We were all works of God, I thought. I wondered if he viewed us like a security guard with no appreciation for art might view the...  with safeguarding—bits of paper and wood and canvas mushed together with some oily and plasticky stuff that someone else told him were worth protecting at any cost. 
“Are you going to try to stop me, then?” 
“No. You are quite capable of looking after yourself.” 
I blinked. He did still trust my skills, then—at least against anyone who wasn’t Pithica. The sense of disgruntlement I hadn’t even realized I’d been feeling against Rio faded somewhat. 
“At least wait until we’ve finished our end of it,” begged Checker. “Come on, this isn’t the movies; we can’t just hit ‘send all.’ Who knows what other difficulties we might run into.” 
Charles Walker and I don't get along. We're in the same grade, and we've known each other as long as I've known Darryl, but that's where the resemblance ends. Charles has always been big for his age, and now that he's playing football and on the juice, he's even bigger. He's got anger management problems...  in the third grade, and he's managed to keep from getting in trouble over them by becoming the most active snitch in school. 
It's a bad combination, a bully who also snitches, taking great pleasure in going to the teachers with whatever infractions he's found. Benson loved Charles. Charles liked to let on that he had some kind of unspecified bladder problem, which gave him a ready-made excuse to prowl the hallways at Chavez, looking for people to fink on. 
The last time Charles had caught some dirt on me, it had ended with me giving up LARPing. I had no intention of being caught by him again. 
"What's he doing?" 
"He's coming this way is what he's doing," Darryl said. He was shaking. 
I'd spent the night thinking over what I had to do. It was like running though a maze of twisty little passages, all alike, every one leading to the same dead end. When I went to Barbara, it would be over for me. That was the outcome, no matter how I thought about it. 
By the time the school day was over, all I wanted was to go home and crawl into bed. But I had an appointment at the Bay Guardian , down on the waterfront. I kept my eyes on my feet as I wobbled out the gate, and as I turned into 24th Street, another pair of feet fell into step with me. I recognized the shoes and stopped. 
"Ange?" 
She looked like I felt. Sleep-deprived and raccoon-eyed, with sad brackets in the corners of her mouth. 
"Hi there," she said. "Surprise. I...  I couldn't concentrate anyway." 
"Um," I said. 
"Shut up and give me a hug, you idiot." 
I did. It felt good. Better than good. It felt like I'd amputated part of myself and it had been reattached. 
"I love you, Marcus Yallow." 
"I love you, Angela Carvelli." 
I bit my lip. 
“Cas? Are you okay?” 
“Yeah.” 
“Sorry, but you don’t sound like it. Are you sure? Is something wrong?” 
I didn’t say anything. 
“Listen. It doesn’t matter if Arthur and Checker are mad at you, you know that, right? If you’re in trouble, they’ll drop everything. You know that.” 
I did? 
“Cas, are you? In trouble?” 
I hung up on her, pressing the button on the phone so hard my hand cramped. 
I’d never wanted to depend on other people, because when it came down to it, other people could let me down, and I had no control over it. Or I would do something, something unimaginably awful, like help a killer track down an elderly woman, and then...they would turn away, and there would be good reason. 
I’d always assumed one of those things would happen, eventually. Been subconsciously preparing for it, emotionally. 
But what if I was wrong? What if Pilar was telling the truth? 
No matter what they think of you now, when they hear what you did... 
It was hard to believe Arthur wouldn’t think it justice, for me to correct what I’d done by sacrificing myself. He’d think it fitting. Wouldn’t he? 
"Cheap teenage melodrama, M1k3y." 
"Don't call me that!" 
"What, 'M1k3y'? Why not, M1k3y ?" 
I put my shoes on. I picked up my bag. I walked home. 
> I won't tell anyone else what to do, because I'm not anyone's leader, no matter what Fox News thinks. 
> But I am going to tell you what I plan on doing. If you think that's the right thing to do, maybe you'll do it too. 
> I'm not jamming. Not this week. Maybe not next. It's not because I'm scared. It's because I'm smart enough to know that I'm better free than in prison. They figured out how to stop our tactic, so we need to come up with a new tactic. I don't care what the tactic is, but I want it to work. It's stupid to get arrested. It's only jamming if you get away with it. 
> There's another reason not to jam. If you get caught, they might use you to catch your friends, and their friends, and their friends. They might bust your friends even if they're not on Xnet, because the DHS is like a maddened bull and they don't exactly worry if they've got the right guy. 
“Thank you,” said Lexy. 
“One minute more! Here, my child, is another check.” 
Lexy stared at it, amazed. It was for one hundred dollars. 
“But, Mrs. Enderby, I can’t—” 
“You will please take it and say nothing more. I give you this because I shall give you no reference. I shall answer no inquiries about you. You understand?” 
“But I don’t want—” 
Mrs. Enderby pushed back her chair, and rose. She crossed the room to Lexy, put both hands on the girl’s shoulders, and then did something far more astonishing than the gift of the check. She kissed Lexy on the forehead. 
“Good-by, and God bless you, little honest one!” she said, with a smile. “I think we shall not see each other again, but I shall sometimes remember you. Go, now, and bear in mind that you can always trust Miss Craigie. She is an imbecile, but she can be trusted. Adieu! ” 
Lexy’s eyes filled with tears. 
This was their parting. Lexy was thankful that it had been like this, very glad that she could leave the house in good will and kindliness. It strengthened her beyond measure. She wanted to help Caroline, and she wanted to help Mrs. Enderby, too. 
He felt her arms tremble as she chinned herself into the boat. She collapsed to the deck and slowly dragged herself up. “Jesus,” she said, hugging herself. The air had gone a little nippy, and both of the humans were going goose-pimply on their bare arms. 
The reef made a tremendous grinding noise. “Yaah!” it said. “Get lost. Sovereign territory!”...  said. Robbie had to stop himself from thinking of her as Janet. 
The woman hugged herself. “Are you sentient?” she asked. 
“Yes,” Robbie said. “And at your service, Asimov be blessed.” His cameras spotted her eyes rolling, and that stung. He tried to keep his thoughts pious, though. The point of Asimovism wasn’t to inspire gratitude in humans, it was to give purpose to the long, long life. 
“I’m Kate,” the woman said. 
“Robbie,” he said. 
“Robbie the Row-Boat?” she said, and choked a little. 
“They named me at the factory,” he said. He labored to keep any recrimination out of his voice. Of course it was funny. That’s why it was his name. 
"As you can see, I've had every test known to science. And none of them found anything wrong." 
He just nodded, saying nothing, and kept on reading. 
After a long, awkward silence, I decided to try and open things up a bit. 
"Tell me, do you have any children of your own?" 
The question seemed to be one he didn't get asked too often, because he stopped cold. 
"All those who come here are my children," he replied, putting aside my records, dismissively finished with them. 
"Well"—I pointed to them—"what do you think?" 
"I haven't examined you yet," he said, looking up and smiling, indeed beaming with confidence. "Nothing in those records tells me anything about what may be your problem. I look for different things than do most physicians." 
He fiddled with something beneath his desk, and the room was abruptly filled with the sound of a hypnotic drone. Per­haps its frequency matched one in my brain, because I instantly felt relaxed and full of hope. Much better than Muzak. Then he rose and came over. 
I got him to write it down, and then eased him off the line as gently as I could and hung up. I would have loved for him to be here, but I wanted to try to get Sarah out by stealth if I could. And stealth was scarcely Lou's style. 
My calls were one for two, and there still wasn't anybody to help me. The time had come to try David. I was having the glimmerings of a new strategy. 
It was lunchtime in New York, but on Wednesdays he usu­ally just had a sandwich at his desk. Maybe I could catch him. 
"Hello," declared the British female voice he'd put on his machine, hoping it would sound like he had a classy secre­tary. "You've reached the office of David Roth, president of Applecore Productions. We're sorry Mr. Roth is not available at this time to—" 
"David," I barked into the phone. "If you're there, pick up. This is Morgan. I've got to talk to you." 
While the announcement kept running, noises erupted out­side in the hall, voices and a clicking sound, as though some­thing was being rolled along the tile floor. Shit. Was Alex Goddard about to walk in? My mouth went dry. Come on, David, I know you're there,...  extra pickle. Dr. Brown's Cel-Ray soda. 
This was far too fantastic for me. “And Pithica?” 
“Far as I can tell, it’s them pulling the strings. Can’t pin it any closer than the word, though.” He seemed to make a sudden decision and holstered his gun. “So. What do you say? Can I give you a lift into town? Maybe share some intel?” 
My first impression was that the PI was one hundred percent cracked. But whatever else he was, Tresting was a lead, and I needed all the information I could get. 
“Fine.” I slid the SIG back into my coat. I could still kill him in a fraction of a second if I needed to, as long as he didn’t have a gun on me. 
Tresting jabbed his thumb at the source of the white headlights. “My truck. And I’ll pretend I didn’t see the extended mag.” 
“It’s legal two hundred miles east of here. ’Sides, you should talk.” 
“Yeah, speaking of, where is it?” 
I waved vaguely toward the desert scrub. “Back there somewhere.” 
He rolled his eyes and jogged over to where my bike had gone down, flashing around the white beam of a penlight. A few minutes later he returned, banged-up Glock in hand. 
He shut up fast at that. 
“They might be torturing Halliday as we speak, and this is the best plan we’ve got.” I stood up. “Start planting the evidence for this Lancer guy.” 
“And where are you going to be?” asked Checker unhappily. 
“I’m going to go find the van. That’s not a large search area—once I get out there, it shouldn’t take me long.” It was something to do, and maybe I’d be able to track their base and blast straight through to rescue Halliday. Besides, I didn’t want to be in the Hole if the NSA decided to check in here—Pilar had probably found Zhang by this point. “We’re going to get the professor back. One way or another.” 
And Arthur would fucking thank me. 
I rode my motorcycle out east, to the fringes of the LA sprawl. 
I had a Eulerian path planned in my head for the search zone, spiraling through the dusty, ramshackle streets with my eyes flicking back and forth for any sign of the van. About a quarter of the way along it, I spotted the windowless white vehicle sitting abandoned at the far end of a fast food parking lot, overlooked by a garish cartoon burger over an atrociously comic sign. I pulled up to the van, jacked into it, and drove off, leaving the bike. 
"Oh, baby, thank God you're . . ." I was expecting the door to burst open any moment. Men with AK-47's. "Do you know the Army's looking for—?" 
"You're completely nuts. I got halfway to Belize and called the motel to see how you were doing, and they told me you'd taken off with this asshole. So I turned around and drove back here. It was after midnight and the Army thugs had just left. Morgy, I'm coming to get you. Soon as the gas stations open. I know a back road to Mexico. We've got to get out of this fucking country immediately." 
"Don't try to drive up. It's too dangerous. Can you get Alan to fly you? Sarah's here and she's been turned into a space cadet. I don't know how I'm going to pry her away." I stopped to try to assemble my thoughts. "He's got soldiers watching me. I've got to smuggle her out somehow." 
I couldn't bring myself to tell him what was really going on. 
"Well, do it fast. I broke into Alex Goddard's office to use this phone and . . . just hurry." 
"You got it." 
"Goddard. Dr. Alex Goddard. He's a kinda spacey guy, but he's the big-shot presiding guru there." She remembered the camera and turned back to it. "I told his staff I didn't have that kind of time, and anyway nothing could be done. They were pretty insistent, so I eventually ended up talking to the man himself. He sort of mesmerizes you, but I finally said, forget it, it's adoption or nothing. So he just sent me back to the peons. Checkbook time." 
I stared at her, hungry for details, but she didn't notice, just pressed on. 
"The money they wanted, I have to tell you, was stagger­ing. Sixty thousand. And believe me, they don't give revolv­ing credit." 
I thought about the figure. It was the highest I'd heard for getting a baby, but it wasn't totally off-the-wall. Terrific ba­bies don't drop from trees. 
Carly was still going strong. "It took me almost half a year to scrounge it together. A lot of credit lines got maxed. But when I finally did plunk down the loot, sure enough, I had Kevin in less than three months. I don't even know where he came from. They took care of all that, but I do know it was probably out of the country, because of the blank INS forms I signed. But then, who cares? With a deal this good, you don't press for details, right?" 
What are they going to do? They have no idea what just happened. 
"Morgy," Sarah said, gazing blankly at the sky, "the colors are so beautiful. Can we—?" 
"Shhh, we'll talk in a minute." 
I smiled and nodded and began walking past the young privates, holding my breath. Then a spectral form emerged out of the rain just behind them. 
It took me a moment to recognize who it was. I was hoping it might be Steve, but instead it was a man dressed in white, now covered with mud, and holding a knife, not obsidian this time but long and steel. His eyes were glazed, and I wasn't sure if he even knew exactly where he was. Why had he come down to the river? Had he known I'd come here, too? 
For a moment we just stood staring at each other, while the Army privates began edging up the hill, as though not wanting to witness what surely was coming next. 
"Why don't you put an end to all the evil?" I yelled at him finally, trying to project through the rain. "Just stop it right now." 
" Baalum was my life's work," he said. Then he looked down at the knife a moment, as though unsure what it was. Finally he turned and flung it in the direction of the river. 
"How, by making it worse?" 
"Maybe it has to get worse to get better, Van. Isn't that what you were saying? If everyone was getting pulled over --" 
"That's not what I meant. I didn't mean you should get everyone arrested. If you want to protest, join the protest movement. Do something positive. Didn't you learn anything from Darryl? Anything? " 
"You're damned right I did," I said, losing my cool. "I learned that they can't be trusted. That if you're not fighting them, you're helping them. That they'll turn the country into a prison if we let them. What did you learn, Van? To be scared all the time, to sit tight and keep your head down and hope you don't get noticed? You think it's going to get better? If we don't do anything, this is as good as it's going to get . It will only get worse and worse from now on. You want to help Darryl? Help me bring them down!" 
There it was again. My vow. Not to get Darryl free, but to bring down the entire DHS. That was crazy, even I knew it. But it was what I planned to do. No question about it. 
Becker gulps a breath. "A shedT "Took out your entire security team on this deck, save Mr. Diggs here, and has taken off for parts unknown. 
Kilgore, Rodriguez and I are going to hunt it down. You and Bobby are going to handle this deck and coordinate our movements as necessary. Notify security to seal off access to Pi and Sigma and any other decks about which I may contact you in the near future. I am the last person to tell anyone else how to do their job, but I'd strongly recommend that you get some reinforcements and some illumination down here as soon as humanly possibly and secure your perimeter." 
Though he didn't know how much that sort of thing would help. Probably just give any random sheds strolling the deck more buffet options. 
Becker snaps back, "Do you even know what tonight is?" 
"I understand your coverage is thin because of crowd control." 
"Thin? I've got every sec-o on the ship on duty already just to keep the crew from committing rape with drunken female passengers desperate to be seduced before they hit the couches." 
> Second, there was something dreadfully fun about listening to him light into other people, their ridiculous passions and interests. He could be incredibly funny, and he was incisive if not insightful. It's shameful, but there you have it. I am imperfect. 
> Finally, when he wasn't being a dick, he was a good guy to have in your corner. He was our rugby team's fullback, the baseball team's shortstop, the tank on our MMOG raids. You could rely on him. 
> So I'm going to miss him, weirdly. If he's gone for good. I wouldn't put it past him to stroll back onto campus someday and say, "What, what? I just...  overreact much?" 
Plenty of the notes ran in this direction, but this was the most articulate. Lawrence read it through three times before adding it to the file of useful stuff. It was a small pile. Still, Gerta kept forwarding him responses. 
> He mentioned a sister. Only once. A whole bunch of us were talking about how our families were really supportive of our coming to the Order, and after it had gone round the whole circle, he just kind of looked at the sky and said, "My sister thought I was an idiot to go inside. I asked her what she thought I should do and she said, 'If I was you, kid, I'd just disappear before someone disappeared me.'" Naturally we all wanted to know what he meant by that. "I'm not very good at bullshitting, and that's a vital skill in today's world. She was better at it than me, when she worked at it, but she was the kind of person who'd let her guard slip every now and then." 
“Wow. It’s so great to meet you. We just didn’t . . .” He looked around. “I’m sorry. For some reason I always assumed . . .” 
Another one finished the sentence he couldn’t seem to com- plete. “We didn’t know you were a girl.” 
It had all started the previous day with an encrypted message: <wheeze> Your brother just got busted. 
A photo was attached, showing a familiar ramshackle house in the middle of the block, Wilson’s bike chained to the porch railing next to pots full of plants that had died because nobody remembered to take them inside when it got cold. In front of the house, there was a traffic jam of police cars. A herd of big guys in windbreakers with letters on them were standing around looking muscular and mean, somehow swaggering even though they were standing still. There was also a mean-looking woman with a pony- tail sticking out of her hat. A hat that said FBI on it. 
“Crap!” It slipped out, too loud. 
The girl who had taken over most of the table I was sitting at in the library looked up at me and frowned, giving me that prissy “don’t you know the rules?” look. I pushed my chair back, enjoy- ing the squeeeeeee it made on the floor that made her squinch up her face in pain. I yanked my power cord out of the plug, grabbed my stuff, and headed for the stairs. I needed to talk to Wheeze, and for that I needed privacy. 
As she drew nearer to the wizard’s door, an unshakable fatal conclusion gripped her: he was long gone, shot or gassed, or simply moved to somewhere else. It had been months and months since he’d given her the printer-clothes and the dumplings and surely he was dead now. Who wasn’t? 
Her steps slowed as she came to his block. Each step was the work of half a minute or more. She didn’t want to see his old door hanging off its hinges, didn’t want to see the ruins of the brave curves and swoops of his flat and his furniture. 
But her steps took her to the door, and it was shut and silent as any of the doors in the street. Nothing marked it beyond the grime of the city and the scratches and scrapes that no one painted over any longer. 
She tried the knob. It was locked. She knocked. Silence. She knocked again, harder. Still silence. Crying now, she thundered on the door with her fists and kicked it with her feet. He was gone, gone, gone, and she would be dead in a week. 
Then the door opened. It wasn’t the wizard, but a well-fed blonde woman in a housecoat with slippers. She was beautiful, a movie-star, though maybe that was just because she wasn’t starved nearly to death. 
He had a sudden, terrible thought. He didn't say anything, but she must have seen it on his face. 
"What is it? Tell me." 
"How do I know that you're on the level about any of this? Maybe you're just jerking me around. Maybe it's all made up -- the jetpacks, everything." He swallowed. "I'm sorry. I don't know where that came from, but it popped into my head --" 
"It's a fair question. Here's one that'll blow your mind, though: how do you know that I'm not on the level, and jerking you around?" 
They changed the subject soon after, with uneasy laughter. They ended up on a park bench near the family of dancing bears, whom they watched avidly. 
"They seem so happy ," he said. "That's what gets me about them. Like dancing was the secret passion of every bear, and these three are the first to figure out how to make a life of it." 
She didn't say anything, but watched the three giants lumber in a graceful, unmistakably joyous kind of shuffle. The music -- constantly mutated based on the intensity of the bears, a piece of software that sought tirelessly to please them -- was jangly and pop-like, with a staccato one-two/onetwothreefourfive/one-two rhythm that let the bears do something like a drunken stagger that was as fun to watch as a box of puppies. 
He had brought a new copy of The Arabian Nights for Rebecca, wishing to replace the well-worn old one that had been the delight of her girlhood; but meeting her at such an inauspicious time, he had absently carried it away with him. He turned the pages idly until he came to the story of Aladdin and the Wonderful Lamp, and presently, in spite of his thirty-four years, the old tale held him spellbound as it did in the days when he first read it as a boy. But there were certain paragraphs that especially caught his eye and arrested his attention,—paragraphs that he read and reread, finding in them he knew not what secret delight and significance. 
Not only those who knew Aladdin when he played in the streets like a vagabond did not know him again; those who had seen him but a little while before hardly knew him, so much were his features altered; such were the effects of the lamp, as to procure by degrees to those who possessed it, perfections agreeable to the rank the right use of it advanced them to. 
Mrs. Royce stood in the doorway, watching Lexy watch Captain Grey, smiling and even beaming with benevolence; but she would have been disappointed if she had suspected what was in Lexy’s head. 
“He’s awfully nice,” thought Lexy, “and awfully handsome, and I’m certain that he’s absolutely trustworthy and honorable, but—” 
But somehow he wasn’t to be compared to Mr. Houseman. She knew practically nothing about Mr. Houseman. She had talked with him for five or ten minutes in the park, and his conversation had been entirely about Caroline Enderby. He had shown himself to be quick-tempered and sadly lacking in patience. He had written Lexy a stiff, offended, boyish letter, and then he had disappeared. There was no sensible reason in the world why she should think of him as she did, no reason why she should hope so much to see him again; but she did. 
“Well, now!” said Mrs. Royce, at last. “You’ll be wanting a nice quiet place for your writing.” 
“Writing!” said Lexy. “I never—” She stopped herself just in time, remembering her shocking falsehood of the night before. “I never care much where I write,” she ended. 
Busy with my constant stream of monotonous mental arithmetic, I didn’t bother to keep track of the time, but at least a full day had passed before the door at the end of the cellblock opened again to reveal a familiar frizzy-haired and freckle-faced figure. 
“Hi,” said Courtney Polk, coming down the cellblock to face us. 
Arthur and I stepped forward in our cells. “Hi,” I said warily. 
The staggering number of question marks surrounding Courtney surged to the front of my brain. Was she in league with Pithica and Dawna? If so, how much through her own free will, and how much through Dawna’s psychic brainwashing? Had she really killed Reginald Kingsley, and if she’d done it under Dawna’s influence, how much could she be held accountable? 
Who was she? Was she still my client? And if so, what on earth could I do for her? 
“I’m sorry you have to go through all this,” said Courtney, waving a hand at the cells. “It’s for your own good and all, but I’m still sorry.” 
“What do you mean, it’s for our own good?” I said cautiously. 
"Brutal doesn't mean untrue. It's like, it's like the money that came into this place, it became autonomous, turned into a strategy for multiplying itself. A bad strategy. The money wants to sell something to a monster, but the money doesn't know what monsters want, so it's just, what, beating its brains out on the wall. One day, the money runs out and..." 
"The money won't run out," Brautigan said. "Wrong. We'd have to spend at ten-ex what we're burning now to even approach the principal." 
"OK," Leon said. "So it's immortal. That's better?" 
Brautigan winced. "Look, it's not so crazy. There's an entire unserved market out there. No one's serving it. They're like, you know, like Communist countries. Planned economies. They need something, they just acquire the capacity. No market." 
"Hey, bub, I know just what you need! You need a house to go with this doorknob!" To his own surprise, Leon discovered that he did a passable Daffy Duck. Brautigan blinked at him. Leon realized that the man was a little drunk. "Just something I heard the other day," he said. "I told the lady from my monster that we could provide the stuff that their corporate culture precluded. I was thinking of you know, how the samurai banned firearms. We can think and do the unthinkable and undo-able." 
“Last! I only wrote one.” 
“Well, I got two,” he told her. “The second one came yesterday, about this doctor, and the roses, you know.” 
“Mrs. Royce must have posted it!” said Lexy. “I wrote it, but I didn’t mean it to be sent to you unless something happened to me.” 
“Enough has happened to you already!” 
“More things are going to happen,” said she. “Lots more!” 
It suddenly occurred to her that the proper moment had come for withdrawing her hands from Mr. Houseman’s firm grasp. Indeed, she thought the proper moment might already have passed, and a warm color came into her cheeks. 
The young man flushed a little himself. 
“I didn’t mean to call you that,” he said; “but Caroline used to write a lot about you, and she always called you ‘Lexy,’ so I got into the way of thinking of you—like that.” 
“I don’t mind,” Lexy conceded. 
There was a moment’s silence. 
“Charles is my name,” he observed. 
Another silence. 
“Queer, isn’t it?” he said seriously. 
“Here we’ve only seen each other once, and yet somehow it seems to me as if I’d known you for years!” 
"I did have one more inspiration," said Rebecca when they were dressing next morning, "but I didn't wake you. I wondered if the rose of joy could be sacrifice? But I think sacrifice would be a lily, not a rose; don't you?" 
The journey southward, the first glimpse of the ocean, the strange new scenes, the ease and delicious freedom, the intimacy with Miss Maxwell, almost intoxicated Rebecca. In three days she was not only herself again, she was another self, thrilling with delight, anticipation, and realization. She had always had such eager hunger for knowledge, such thirst for love, such passionate longing for the music, the beauty, the poetry of existence! She had always been straining to make the outward world conform to her inward dreams, and now life had grown all at once rich and sweet, wide and full. She was using all her natural, God-given outlets; and Emily Maxwell marveled daily at the inexhaustible way in which the girl poured out and gathered in the treasures of thought and experience that belonged to her. She was a lifegiver, altering the whole scheme of any picture she made a part of, by contributing new values. Have you never seen the dull blues and greens of a room changed, transfigured by a burst of sunshine? That seemed to Miss Maxwell the effect of Rebecca on the groups of people with whom they now and then mingled; but they were commonly alone, reading to each other and having quiet talks. The prize essay was very much on Rebecca's mind. 
He shoved me into the bathroom. My hands were useless, like lumps of clay on the ends of my wrists. As I wiggled my fingers limply, they tingled, then the tingling turned to a burning feeling that almost made me cry out. I put the seat down, dropped my pants and sat down. I didn't trust myself to stay on my feet. 
As my bladder cut loose, so did my eyes. I wept, crying silently and rocking back and forth while the tears and snot ran down my face. It was all I could do to keep from sobbing -- I covered my mouth and held the sounds in. I didn't want to give them the satisfaction. 
Finally, I was peed out and cried out and the guy was pounding on the door. I cleaned my face as best as I could with wads of toilet paper, stuck it all down the john and flushed, then looked around for a sink but only found a pump-bottle of heavy-duty hand-sanitizer covered in small-print lists of the bio-agents it worked on. I rubbed some into my hands and stepped out of the john. 
"What were you doing in there?" the guy said. 
“She went directly to bed,” Mrs. Enderby continued. “I thought, however, that she would have sent for you during the course of the evening.” 
“Oh, I see!” said Lexy casually. 
At heart, however, she was curiously uneasy. Mr. Enderby stopped for a moment, to give her some kindly...  Then he and his wife ascended the stairs, followed by Lexy; and with every step her uneasiness grew. She was sure that Caroline would have sent for her if she had been in the house. 
Mrs. Enderby paused outside her child’s door. 
“The light is out,” she said. “She will be asleep. I shall not disturb her. Good night, Miss Moran!” 
“Good night, Mrs. Enderby!” Lexy answered, and went into her own room. 
She gave Mrs. Enderby twenty minutes to get safely stowed away; then she went out quietly into the hall, to Caroline’s room. She knocked softly; there was no answer. She turned the handle and went in; the room was dark and very still. She switched on the light. 
It was as she had expected—the room was empty. Caroline was not there. 
I counted to five in Esperanto -- grandad's trick for inner peace -- and said, "I don't think that will work. He's emergent, remember? Self-assembled, a function of the complexity of the interconnectedness of the computers." I was quoting from the plaque next to the picture window that opened up into the cold-room that housed BIGMAC; I saw it every time I coughed into the lock set into the security door. 
She made a comical face-palm and said, "Yeah, of course. But we can archive something , right? It's not like it takes a lot of actual bytes, right?" 
"A couple exos," I said. "Sure. I could flip that up into our researchnet store." This was mirrored across many institutions, and striped with parity and error-checking to make it redundant and safe. "But I'm not going to capture the state information. I could try to capture RAM-dumps from all his components, you know, like getting the chemical state of all your neurons. And then I could also get the topology of his servers. Pripuz did that, a couple years ago, when it was clear that BIGMAC was solving the hard AI problems. Thought he could emulate him on modern hardware. Didn't work though. No one ever figured out why. Pripuz thought he was the Roger Penrose of AI, that he'd discovered the ineffable stuff of consciousness on those old rack-mounted servers." 
“When my uncle was in business, would have been easy.” He reached for another beer and twisted the cap off. 
“Yeah, right. You’re all talk.” 
Danny scowled at him. “It’s not that easy, yo. You can’t just walk into Hardware Hank and ask for it. Stuff’s regulated.” 
“What if I could get it?” 
“Yeah, sure.” Danny drank deeply. 
“For real,” Simon said. “I have a connection.” 
“A connection, wow.” Danny laughed like it was the punch- line of a joke, but Simon didn’t join in. 
“Write down what you need. I’ll get it.” 
Danny looked at him, the smile fading. This time, he was the one being tested. 
That’s when I finally realized Danny wasn’t working for the FBI. Simon was. 
H e could have been recruited ages ago. The cops might have pulled Simon in on a drug charge, then realized that he was part of the same scene as local activists, old enough for the job, 
and easily jammed up because he paid his rent by selling weed to his friends. Given a choice between jail and helping them stage some security theatre, I knew which one Simon would choose. 
He’d never switched off the kid’s phone-bug, and now he was able to haul out the UNATS Robotics computer and dump it all into a log-analysis program along with Ada’s logs, see if the two of them had been spending much time in the same place. 
They had. They’d been physically meeting up weekly or more frequently, at the Peanut Plaza and in the ravine. Arturo had suspected as much. Now he checked Liam’s bug—if the kid wasn’t with his daughter, he might know where she was. 
It was a Friday night, and the kid was at the movies, at Fairview Mall. He’d sat down in auditorium two half an hours ago, and had gotten up to pee once already. Arturo slipped the toy soldiers into the pocket of his winter parka and pulled on a hat and gloves and set off for the mall. 
The stink of the smellie movie clogged his nose, a cacophony of blood, gore, perfume and flowers, the only smells that Hollywood ever really perfected. Liam was kissing a girl in the dark, but it wasn’t Ada, it was a sad, skinny thing with a lazy eye and skin worse than Liam’s. She gawked at Arturo as he hauled Liam out of his seat, but a flash of Arturo’s badge shut her up. 
"Eight billion rupiah on a project to make the skies quieter?" 
"All told," she said. "We could have done it other ways, some of them cheaper. We could have bought some laws, or bought out the competition and changed their product line, but that's very, you know, blunt . This was sweet. Everyone got what they wanted in the end: fast rides, quiet skies, safe, cheap vehicles. Win win win." 
An old school flyer with a jetpack as loud as the inside of an ice-blender roared past, leaving thousands scowling in his wake. 
"That guy is plenty dedicated," she said. "He'll be machining his own replacement parts for that thing. No one's making them anymore." 
He tried a joke: "You're not going to send the Viktor ninjas to off him before he hits Union Square?" 
She didn't smile. "We don't use assassination," she said. "That's what I'm trying to convey to you, Leon." 
He crumbled. He'd blown it somehow, shown himself to be the boor he'd always feared he was. 
"I'm sorry," he said. "I guess -- look, it's all kind of hard to take in. The sums are staggering." 
That was better. She should have gone with that in the first place. She couldn’t tell if they believed her. Ana was shaking her head. 
“You’ve got a doctor here, or someone like a doctor. Whatever’s been done to your leg, Ana, a doctor did that.” 
Ana pointed at the woman from whom Valentine had snatched the camera. Valentine passed it back to her. “Sorry about that.” 
The day after Valentine killed her first man, her hearing came back. The surgery took about ten minutes and was largely performed remotely, reprogramming the hardware in her head with something that the doctor kept calling “hardened logic.” She liked the sound of that. 
Her hearing came back slowly, in blips and bloops over the course of a few hours. Then it was back, better than new. She found that she could hear sounds from much farther away. The camera-woman also showed her how she could use a terminal to access the memory in her new ears, which would buffer six months’ worth of audio. Valentine didn’t think she’d be in a position to make much use of this feature, as interesting as it was. There weren’t any working machines in the city. 
Hannah was darning stockings, and she threaded her needle and snipped off the yarn before she answered, "No, thank you, Becky. Mother couldn't do without me, and I hate going to school. I can read and write and cipher as well as anybody now, and that's enough for me. I'd die rather than teach school for a living. The winter'll go fast, for Will Melville is going to lend me his mother's sewing machine, and I'm going to make white petticoats out of the piece of muslin aunt Jane sent, and have 'em just solid with tucks. Then there's going to be a singing-school and a social circle in Temperance after New Year's, and I shall have a real good time now I'm grown up. I'm not one to be lonesome, Becky," Hannah ended with a blush; "I love this place." 
Rebecca saw that she was speaking the truth, but she did not understand the blush till a year or two later. 
There was another milestone; it was more than that, it was an "event;" an event that made a deep impression in several quarters and left a wake of smaller events in its train. This was the coming to Riverboro of the Reverend Amos Burch and wife, returned missionaries from Syria. 
When the woman's eyes had fully closed, he removed his green mask and tossed it into a box. 
It's all fake. The room, everything. Just like Baalum . But now he's got Sarah's mind caught in his thrall. I've got to make her understand nothing here is real. 
Marcelina was carefully watching the screens, her apprehension obvious as she fiddled uncertainly with the knobs. 
"Oxygen steady." Her voice was small and uneasy. "EKG stable." 
He immediately stripped away the sheet that had been covering the patient. Beneath it was an open-sided gown colored in brilliant stripes of red and blue. He pulled it back with absent precision, then turned to Marcelina. 
"Shave her and scrub her." 
With the woman now under sedation, Marcelina put on her own surgical garb: She pulled a blue plastic cap over her hair, then secured a white OR mask over her face. While she was finishing the preparations, he turned and walked to the far side of the room, where he abruptly seemed to disappear through the wall. 
What . . . There must be a panel there, a camouflaged door. 
“Better at what?” 
“You say the only possibility is that someone else contacted Dawna Polk using my name.” 
“Well, yeah.” I searched for the flaw in that logic, puzzled. “That is the only possibility.” 
“Unless she lied to you.” 
“Who?” 
Rio regarded me as though I were speaking a foreign language. “ Dawna.” 
I laughed. “She wasn’t lying to me. Jesus, if you’d seen her—she was practically in hysterics about this whole thing.” 
“Did you do a background check on her?” 
I frowned. I background check all my clients if I have the time. But...“I didn’t need to. Seriously. You’re being ridiculous. Let’s concentrate on the real possibilities.” 
“Cas. You’re acting strange.” 
“What do you mean, strange? Because I’m not jumping to suspect the least likely person in this whole tangle?” 
“No. Because you’re disregarding it as an option.” 
“So?” 
“So, that is very unlike you.” 
I found myself becoming annoyed. Which was unheard of—I couldn’t remember ever having gotten annoyed at Rio. Why was he insisting on being so infuriating over this Dawna thing? “Oh, so you have my deductive process axiomitized and memorized, do you?” I said. 
"I don't know why," Ray says slowly. 
Becker only nods. "I don't know either, but I do know that my good, God fearing, Bible thumping Baptist grandmother wouldn't have given much of a squat about shed and genies and what old Solomon was doing with anybody other than his idolatrous concubines. She most certainly wouldn't have cared for the exegesis of some johnny-come-lately Arab Jew trying to rewrite the book of Genesis. What would have attracted her attention was the idea that bad people are using nefarious methods to commit the second oldest sin in the history of humanity, that being murder of the Cain and Abel variety, and seeing to it that justice is brought to the perpetrators. What I know is that murder never happens for no reason at all. Whether it's done with a knife in a back alley or a gun on the lawn of the White House or some supernatural free...  there's always somebody behind it with a grudge, or an attitude or a score to settle. Somebody wields the weapon, and they've always got a why or a wherefore. Murder always comes down to the why of it. 
What? After that neurotic song-and-dance he'd just given me in the park? I should have been overjoyed, but something about the whole thing immediately felt synthetic. I paused a long moment, trying to think the situation through. What was going on? 
The answer to that was clear as day. I was being set up. Somebody wanted me out of town, and they'd just found a way. 
Or was I being paranoid again? Had the weather cleared? I reached over and pushed aside a curtain. Nope, it looked as threatening as ever. 
No question. This was definitely a setup. 
On the other hand why not use whoever had put him up to this? This told me for sure I was on the trail of Sarah, and the sooner I got going, the better. Aside from calling New York and then checking out the local Ninos del Mundo that Barry Morton wanted me to see so badly, I had no other pressing plans. . . . 
"Alan, I thought you declared no 'effing' way were you going to go today," I said testing him. "Why the sudden revision in scheduling?" 
It was Tara, Alex Goddard's spacey waif, who was moving so oddly, I thought for a moment she might be sleepwalking. 
She wasn't, of course. She'd just been out strolling around the driveway in the snow. I soon realized she lived her life in something resembling a trance, as though she were a per­manent denizen of the spirit world. For her it was a natural condition. 
"It's so beautiful like this," she mumbled dreamily, as though we'd been in the middle of a lifelong conversation. "I just love it." Her voice was barely above a whisper, but in the silence it seemed to ricochet off the stone walls. "I want to take them out, show them God's paintbrush. Will you help me?" 
"Take who out?" I asked, immediately deciding to go with the moment. 
Finally she looked directly at me and realized whom she'd been talking to. 
"You were here before. I tried to give you herbs to help you, but then he came and . . ." Her voice trailed off as she walked back through the portico and out again into the drift­ing snow. Then she held up her hands, as though attempting to capture the flakes as keepsakes. "I so want to show them. They've never seen it before." She glanced back at me. "Come on. Let's do it." 
“I knew you were an Englishman.” 
“Did you really?” said he, as if surprised. “People do seem to know. My first visit to your country—six months’ leave—so I’ve come here to see my sister—Mrs. Quelton. She’s married to an American doctor.” 
Lexy thought there was something almost pathetic in his chivalrous anxiety to explain himself. 
“I’m Alexandra Moran,” she said. 
“Thank you!” said Captain Grey. “Thank you very much, Miss Moran!” 
There was no opportunity for further polite conversation, for the taxi had stopped and the driver came around to the door. 
“Better make a run fer it!” he said. “I’ll take yer bags.” 
So Captain Grey took Lexy’s arm, and they did make a run for it, through the fine, chilly rain, along a garden path and up on a veranda. The door was opened at once. 
“Miss Royce?” asked Captain Grey. 
“Mrs. Royce,” said the other. “Come right in. My, how it does rain!” 
They followed her into a dimly lit hall. She opened a door on the right, and lit the gas in what was obviously the “best parlor”—a dreadful room, stiff and ugly, and smelling of camphor and dampness. Captain Grey remained in the hall to settle with the driver, and Lexy decided to let her share of the reckoning wait for a more auspicious occasion. She went into the parlor with Mrs. Royce. 
"Mr. Ladd," said Rebecca under her breath. 
"Adam Ladd! Well I never! Don't you remember Ellen Burnham said he was going to send Rebecca a Christmas present? But I never supposed he'd think of it again," said Jane. "What's the other package?" 
It proved to be a silver chain with a blue enamel locket on it, marked for Emma Jane. 
Dear Miss Rebecca Rowena,—My idea of a Christmas present is something entirely unnecessary and useless. I have always noticed when I give this sort of thing that people love it, so I hope I have not chosen wrong for you and your friend. You must wear your chain this afternoon, please, and let me see it on your neck, for I am coming over in my new sleigh to take you both to drive. My aunt is delighted with the soap. 
Sincerely your friend, Adam Ladd. 
"Well, well!" cried Miss Jane, "isn't that kind of him? He's very fond of children, Lyddy Burnham says. Now eat your breakfast, Rebecca, and after we've done the dishes you can run over to Emma's and give her her chain—What's the matter, child?" 
"Oh, well, they can't be blamed for that; they don't die on purpose," said Rebecca, with a comfortable theology. 
In these days Adam Ladd sometimes went to Temperance on business connected with the proposed branch of the railroad familiarly known as the "York and Yank 'em," and while there he gained an inkling of Sunnybrook affairs. The building of the new road was not yet a certainty, and there was a difference of opinion as to the best route from Temperance to Plumville. In one event the way would lead directly through Sunnybrook, from corner to corner, and Mrs. Randall would be compensated; in the other, her interests would not be affected either for good or ill, save as all land in the immediate neighborhood might rise a little in value. 
Coming from Temperance to Wareham one day, Adam had a long walk and talk with Rebecca, whom he thought looking pale and thin, though she was holding bravely to her self-imposed hours of work. She was wearing a black cashmere dress that had been her aunt Jane's second best. We are familiar with the heroine of romance whose foot is so exquisitely shaped that the coarsest shoe cannot conceal its perfections, and one always cherishes a doubt of the statement; yet it is true that Rebecca's peculiar and individual charm seemed wholly independent of accessories. The lines of her figure, the rare coloring of skin and hair and eyes, triumphed over shabby clothing, though, had the advantage of artistic apparel been given her, the little world of Wareham would probably at once have dubbed her a beauty. The long black braids were now disposed after a quaint fashion of her own. They were crossed behind, carried up to the front, and crossed again, the tapering ends finally brought down and hidden in the thicker part at the neck. 
I lunged and wrenched my hand; my thumb cracked audibly as it went—my hand scraped out of the cuff with a burst of pain and I dove to the side, off the bed. An IV stand stood next to me; in one fluid motion I wrapped my other hand around it and spun, slinging it at the agent. 
She fended it off, faster than I expected, and reached for her holster at the same time, but I used the precious split second to vault past the foot of the bed and slam into her, jamming up her gun hand. I twisted as I hit and took us both to the floor. My hand followed in the same motion to grab her sidearm out of her holster myself. 
I rolled away and came up gun first. The agent snapped to a standstill in the midst of lunging after me. 
“Better,” I said. 
“You don’t want to do this.” She wasn’t even breathing hard. 
The wound in my side spasmed. “Give me the tracker info. Now.” 
“I’m not in possession of that information,” she said. “And if you try to take me hostage, the result will be your arrest or your death. Work with us instead.” 
"Same difference. I like a man who can make up his mind. That's what Ethan's father was like: decisive." 
"You'll like my Dad," Sean said. He drummed his fingers on the wheel, then lowered and raised his window. He whistled tunelessly through his teeth. Adele gave him a considering stare and he stopped, and started in on powers of two in his head. 
"There he is," Sean said, 224 later. 
Sean had barely been in Florida for three days, but it was long enough that his father seemed as pale as freezer-burned ice cream. Sean checked the traffic in his rear-view, then pulled across the waiting area to where his father stood, acing out an irate cabbie for the spot. 
Sean's father glared at the car and started to walk behind it to the taxi. Sean leaned on the horn and his father stooped and stared. His expression was bland and grim and affectless. 
Sean powered down Adele's window. "Dad!" 
"Sean?" his father said. 
Sean popped the locks. "Get in, Dad, I'll give you a ride." 
Adele turned around as Sean's father was buckling in. "I'm Adele. Sean and I were thinking of taking you to Universal. Would you like that?" 
“Food. I’m starving.” 
T yler ordered carryout and, while we waited, Sarah got out her camera gear and interviewed Ian and Jason, firing questions at them about the government’s approach to national security. 
She even charmed me into answering some questions about my brother, though I stood in front of the window so that I would be a mysterious silhouette. Then the food came and everyone chat- tered while we ate, except for me. I was too busy thinking about what to do. 
They thought I was too young. Fine. I’d have to do it myself. 
I tuned out their voices and pretended to be completely focused on eating as I thought about how to finish the job that the FBI wouldn’t let Nikko do. I had developed a rough plan by the time Ian said he had to get ready for his talk. 
“I’d like to film it,” Sarah said to Ian. “You don’t mind?” 
“I’d be honored.” 
“Do either of you have experience with film editing?” Sarahh asked, glancing from Nikko to me. 
“Nikko does.” 
“Just little animations,” he said, getting red in the face again. 
This one wasn’t, of course. Too many people had seen the key—too many meaning Arthur and Checker’s surveillance system and who knew who else. But I didn’t think it likely it was compromised enough for the Lancer to be able to gain access and read the contents. 
You’re gambling that with the life of a seventy-year-old woman. I stopped for a moment, my pen poised over the sheet of paper I was composing on. But come on, chances were next to nothing the Lancer could have seen this booklet, weren’t they? A much lower probability, I estimated, than that he would come after Rita Martinez anyway just because of her connection to Sonya Halliday. 
It was worth the risk. Martinez wasn’t innocent, I reminded myself again—she’d stolen from Halliday twice, the second time compounding it with a crime against the U.S. government that still had the potential to get other people in deep trouble. More importantly, she’d run off with a proof that should, by all rights, belong to the world. I didn’t care if she’d discovered it; she shouldn’t be allowed that level of selfishness. 
"Yeah," she said. 
Back we went. It was a good night, that night. 
Jolu waited after for his brother's friend to come by and pick up his coolers. I walked with everyone else up the road to the nearest Muni stop and got on board. Of course, none of us was using an issued Muni pass. By that point, Xnetters habitually cloned someone else's Muni pass three or four times a day, assuming a new identity for every ride. 
It was hard to stay cool on the bus. We were all a little drunk, and looking at our faces under the bright bus lights was kind of hilarious. We got pretty loud and the driver used his intercom to tell us to keep it down twice, then told us to shut up right now or he'd call the cops. 
That set us to giggling again and we disembarked in a mass before he did call the cops. We were in North Beach now, and there were lots of buses, taxis, the BART at Market Street, neon-lit clubs and cafes to pull apart our grouping, so we drifted away. 
I got home and fired up my Xbox and started typing in keys from my phone's screen. It was dull, hypnotic work. I was a little drunk, and it lulled me into a half-sleep. 
No doctors could help her, as far as she was concerned. She knew exactly what had gone wrong: her hearing aids had failed. Everything from the golden years after the revolution failed. Old people died when their artificial hearts or kidneys seized up and withered. Lifts didn’t work. Printers didn’t work—they’d nearly all died the day the siege began. The hospitals couldn’t print drugs. The sky-cars fell out of the sky. 
Nothing worked. Nothing would ever work again. Everything fell apart. Her hearing aids were of that same magical stuff as everything else from the revolution, so it followed that they would die too. 
Mata must have known this. That’s probably what she was saying. If Valentine concentrated, she could recall her mother’s voice and have it say the words. 
“It’s OK, Mata,” she said. She knew she was shouting. “It’s OK.” 
Mata cried and she cried, but she put herself to sleep as soon as she could, and once she thought Trover and Mata were sleeping, she took out her small wizard-light and made her way down the silent stairs, into the silent streets. 
“It’s okay,” Checker said, when I hadn’t answered. “I’ll be able to pull things from police records, though it’ll be a few hours before their CSU stuff hits the system. Can you believe it, you’d think in this modern era we’d have everything connected instantly, but no.” When I didn’t say anything, he prompted, “Cas? You there?” 
I’d been thinking about the bad guys’ MO. AKs and Molotov cocktails were common as a bad haircut. But Molotov cocktails rigged to explode as these had, those were something more unusual...and they’d geared us up with a pretty nifty car bomb earlier...plus the souped-up grenade... 
“Cas? You all right?” 
I squeezed my eyes shut. My head felt like steel wool, sharp and stinging and a dirty tangle, and the nausea still nagged at me. Being in the midst of a street-sized bonfire for too long could apparently make you sick. Who knew. “I’m here.” 
“Why don’t you come back to the Hole? We’ve got more data to track now. Maybe we can—” 
“No.” My brain buzzed, trying its best. I hadn’t taken the van for that long of a ride before stopping and searching it... 
Booger looked closely at my ID again. "We just want to ask you a few routine questions." 
"Can I see your badges?" I said. These guys were clearly cops, but it couldn't hurt to let them know I knew my rights. 
Booger flashed his badge at me too fast for me to get a good look at it, but Zit in the front seat gave me a long look at his. I got their division number and memorized the four-digit badge number. It was easy: 1337 is also the way hackers write "leet," or "elite." 
They were both being very polite and neither of them was trying to intimidate me the way that the DHS had done when I was in their custody. 
"Am I under arrest?" 
"You've been momentarily detained so that we can ensure your safety and the general public safety," Booger said. 
He passed my driver's license up to Zit, who pecked it slowly into his computer. I saw him make a typo and almost corrected him, but figured it was better to just keep my mouth shut. 
"Is there anything you want to tell me, Marcus? Do they call you Marc?" 
"If Fate had not made somebody a teacher, 
She might have been, oh! such a splendid preacher!" 
rhymed Rebecca. "Oh! if I could only think and speak as you do!" she sighed. "I am so afraid I shall never get education enough to make a good writer." 
"You could worry about plenty of other things to better advantage," said Miss Maxwell, a little scornfully. "Be afraid, for instance, that you won't understand human nature; that you won't realize the beauty of the outer world; that you may lack sympathy, and thus never be able to read a heart; that your faculty of expression may not keep pace with your ideas,—a thousand things, every one of them more important to the writer than the knowledge that is found in books. AEsop was a Greek slave who could not even write down his wonderful fables; yet all the world reads them." 
"I didn't know that," said Rebecca, with a half sob. "I didn't know anything until I met you!" 
"You will only have had a high school course, but the most famous universities do not always succeed in making men and women. When I long to go abroad and study, I always remember that there were three great schools in Athens and two in Jerusalem, but the Teacher of all teachers came out of Nazareth, a little village hidden away from the bigger, busier world." 
“I’m the wizard, that’s why,” he said. “I can make magic.” 
His robots tied up her extra clothes in waterproof grip sheets for her, then helped her into a warm slicker with a hood. “Tell your mother that you met someone from the city who fed you and gave you a change of clothes,” he said, holding open the door. He’d explained to her where to go from there to get out to the old shopping street and from there she could manage on her own, especially since he’d given her one of his little pea-lights to carry with her. 
“You’re not from the city,” she said. 
“You got me,” he said. “So tell her you met a wizard.” 
She thought about what her mother would say to that, especially when that was the answer to the question Where have you been? “I’ll tell her I met someone from the city,” she said. 
“You’re a clever girl,” he said. 
One week after her father died, Valentine stopped carrying water. 
“There’s not enough food,” her mother said, over a breakfast of nothing but dried fruit—the cereal was gone. “If you—” she swallowed and looked out the window. “If you dig in the trenches, we’ll get 150 grams of bread a day.” 
"That may be true, but I'm still going to see what I can find out. My heart is pure. Why should anybody care?" 
"Do what you think best," he said with a sigh, "but I've told you everything we know. Which, I'm afraid, is actually very little." 
"By the way." Try one more thing on him, I thought, see what he'll say. "Since you're so concerned about Sarah, you'll be relieved to know she's regained consciousness and started to talk." There seemed no point in telling him any more. The rest was all still speculation. 
That stopped him cold. "What . . . what has she said?" His eyes appeared startled in the glaring light of the office fluorescents. At long last I had his undivided attention. 
"You're busy." I smiled at him. "I don't want to bore you with details. But it's just going to be a matter of time before she remembers exactly what happened down here." 
"She hasn't talked about it yet?" He was fiddling with an ornate letter opener, an onyx jaguar head on the handle. 
"She's getting there." I stared back at him, trying to read his mood. "We may soon find out who was behind whatever happened to her." Then I tried a long shot. "Maybe official­dom here had something to do with it." 
I passed by San Francisco General Hospital and nodded with satisfaction as I saw the huge lines at the front doors. They had a police checkpoint too, of course, and there were enough Xnetters working as interns and cafeteria workers and whatnot there that everyone's badges had been snarled up and swapped around. I'd read the security checks had tacked an hour onto everyone's work day, and the unions were threatening to walk out unless the hospital did something about it. 
A few blocks later, I saw an even longer line for the BART. Cops were walking up and down the line pointing people out and calling them aside for questioning, bag-searches and pat-downs. They kept getting sued for doing this, but it didn't seem to be slowing them down. 
I got to school a little ahead of time and decided to walk down to 22nd...  a police checkpoint where they were pulling over cars for secondary inspection. 
School was no less wild -- the security guards on the metal detectors were also wanding our school IDs and pulling out students with odd movements for questioning. Needless to say, we all had pretty weird movements. Needless to say, classes were starting an hour or more later. 
“I don’t care!” she said to herself. 
“She’s wrong—I know it! It’s not what she thinks. Caroline’s not like that. Something dreadful has happened!” 
It seemed perfectly natural to be awakened in the morning by Mrs. Enderby’s hand on her shoulder, and to look up into Mrs. Enderby’s flashing black eyes. Lexy had gone to sleep dominated by the thought of that masterful woman. She vaguely remembered having dreamed of her, and when she opened her eyes—there she was. 
“Get up!” said Mrs. Enderby in a low voice. “Go into Caroline’s room. When Annie comes with the breakfast tray, take it from her at the door. I have told her that Caroline is ill with a headache. You understand?” 
“Yes, Mrs. Enderby,” answered Lexy. 
She sprang out of bed and began to dress, filled with an unreasoning sense of haste. It wasn’t a dream, then—it was true. Caroline had gone, and there was something Lexy must do for her. She could not have explained what this something was, but it oppressed and worried her. She could not rid herself of the feeling that she was not being loyal to Caroline. 
Tresting sat back and digested that. I felt like brooding myself. This whole thing was far beyond anything I usually dealt with. We had another global organization after us now—another one with tremendous resources and no compunction against violence. Not to mention the whole “Dawna Polk, Functioning Psychic” thing... 
The twilight had nearly turned to full dark while we inched forward in traffic before Tresting spoke again. “Where you headed?” 
“I keep a few places around the city in case I need to get off the grid, but I figured we’d drive around and swap cars a few times first,” I answered. Go Cas, ever prepared. 
“Russell,” said Tresting, “I don’t think I can work with you.” 
Dammit. Not this again. Maybe I could make him understand. “Look, I know you don’t like Rio—” 
“No.” He rubbed his forehead with one hand, like someone with a migraine coming on. “Well, yeah, that’s an issue. But it ain’t him, Russell. It’s you.” 
Something constricted inside me. “What does that mean?” 
He took a deep breath. “Life is cheap to you.” 
Ray lifts an eyebrow. "And you never go anywhere without his escort?" 
"Not if they can stop me. " 
Like the other morning, she means. It sits there plainly between them, but Ray doesn't know how to make her actually say it, recognize it. 
"Your family seems to be heavily invested in protecting you." Big sign, red letters, neon flash: Watch Out for Thin Ice. Ray prepares to wince as she cuts him down. 
But she doesn't. Emma sucks in her lower lip, blinks slowly. "I'm the baby." 
"They let you go off to the university," he points out. 
More lip chewing. She shifts her eyes away. "That's not completely accurate. I went off to school. Frederick retrieved me from school." 
"Meaning?" 
"I had enough money to get to Stratiskaya Daransk and get by for six months. I don't control my trust until I'm twenty-five, so it wasn't hard for Frederick to block access to my account. The university expelled me for failure to pay my bill." 
"And your mother?" 
"Mother's been ill my entire life, sometimes better other times worse. The severity of her condition is a pretense to keep people from talking about family affairs." Emma frowns, then tries to shake it off with a grim laugh. "I shouldn't be telling you this. It sounds like I'm trying to scare you off." 
I tried to think back. It was hard to focus. No more than fifteen minutes of driving, no more than seven spent searching the van before the SUVs had arrived. 
Twenty-two minutes. They wouldn’t have wanted to go above the speed limit, not with the hardware they were carrying. Plus figure a couple of minutes for noticing the van was on the move and gearing up... 
There wasn’t all that much out this way. And it was unlikely they would’ve expected someone to find the van in the first place, so no reason for them to have had men babysitting it. I was betting I could find their hideout. 
“Cas, talk to me. What are you thinking?” 
“I’m going to find their base,” I said. 
“How?” 
“I need a map,” I said. 
“What?” 
“A physical paper map. Where can you buy one of those these days?” 
“Um, I don’t know. I’d stop at somewhere with Internet and print one, if I were you.” 
“You’re the guy sitting at a computer,” I said, irritation bleeding into my voice. “Find out where I can buy a fucking map. On paper.” 
“Caroline’s gone.” 
The words were spoken. Lexy waited in great alarm, wondering if Mrs. Enderby would faint or scream. 
The lady did neither. She came out into the corridor, shutting the door of her room behind her, and her first word and her only word was: “Hush!” 
Then she glanced about her at the closed doors, and, taking Lexy’s arm in a firm grip, hurried her to Caroline’s room. Not until they were shut in there did she speak again. 
“Now tell me!” she said. “Speak very low. You said—Caroline has gone?” 
“Yes,” said Lexy. “I came in here after you’d gone to bed, and—you can see for yourself—the bed hasn’t been slept in. She’s taken her things—her brush and comb and—” 
“And she told you—what?” 
“Me? Why, nothing!” answered Lexy, in surprise. “I didn’t see her. I haven’t seen her since dinner.” 
“But you know,” said Mrs. Enderby. “You know where she has gone.” 
She spoke with cool certainty, and her black eyes were fixed upon Lexy with a far from pleasant expression. 
Lexy looked back at her with equal steadiness. 
“I can have the shell locked up,” Robbie said. “The ship has provisions for that.” 
The IM made a rude visual. “All that’ll do is encourage the hacker to skip out before I can get there.” 
“So what shall I do for you?” 
“It’s Kate I want to talk to. She’s still there, right?” 
“She is.” 
“And has she noticed the difference?” 
“That you’re gone? Yes. The reef told us who they were when they arrived.” 
“Hold on, what? The reef? You said that before.” 
So Robbie told him what he knew of the uplifted reef and the distant and cool voice of the uplifter. 
“It’s an uplifted coral reef ? Christ, humanity sucks . That’s the dumbest fucking thing—” He continued in this vein for a while. “Well, I’m sure Kate will enjoy that immensely." 
“You’re her son?” 
“No, not really.” 
“But she had you?” 
“Haven’t you figured it out yet, bro? Kate instantiated me. I’m six months old, and she’s already bored of me and has moved on. She says she can’t give me what I need.” 
“You and Kate—” 
“Robot boyfriend and girlfriend, yup. Such as it is, up in the noosphere. Cybering, you know. I was really excited about downloading into that Ken doll on your ship there. Lots of potential there for real world, hormone-driven interaction. Do you know if we—” 
"Do people really do that?" 
"Some do. Most just want it for the object-ness of it. It's got a lot of emotion." The scuffs, that's what did it. They were like stories, those scratches, each one a memento mori for some long-dead instant in some stranger's life. 
He picked up another piece. This one was purely sculptural, made from several generations of iPhones, their screens carved into abstract shapes and then painted with networked OLEDs that stitched them together into a single display. The abstract shapes and colors combined with the device's aggressive incursions on your PAN to give the sense of holding a vampire, something transgressive and savage. Dangerous. "When was the last time you owned a device that felt that dangerous?" 
"Never!" The VC seemed to surprise himself with his vehemence. He fumbled the device, caught it, set it down reverently. 
"Oh, you can be rougher than that. My little critters love adapting to hard circumstances." She tossed the vampire high in the sky, let it come down on the floor, having righted itself in the air to take the drop on its armored back. "You can't break it, it's made of garbage." 
In a few minutes the poetess looked up, flushed and triumphant. 
Mr. and Mrs. Cobb exchanged dumb glances of admiration; indeed uncle Jerry was obliged to turn his face to the window and wipe his eyes furtively with the string-bag. 
"How in the world did you do it?" Mrs. Cobb exclaimed. 
"Oh, it's easy," answered Rebecca; "the hymns at meeting are all like that. You see there's a school newspaper printed at Wareham Academy once a month. Dick Carter says the editor is always a boy, of course; but he allows girls to try and write for it, and then chooses the best. Dick thinks I can be in it." 
"IN it!" exclaimed uncle Jerry. "I shouldn't be a bit surprised if you had to write the whole paper; an' as for any boy editor, you could lick him writin', I bate ye, with one hand tied behind ye." 
"Can we have a copy of the poetry to keep in the family Bible?" inquired Mrs. Cobb respectfully. 
"Oh! would you like it?" asked Rebecca. "Yes indeed! I'll do a clean, nice one with violet ink and a fine pen. But I must go and look at my poor dress." 
The forensics lab-rats were really excited about actually showing up on a scene, in flak-jackets and helmets, finally called back into service for a job where robots couldn’t help at all. They dealt with the tripwire and extracted a long, flat package with a small nuclear power-cell in it and a positronic brain of Eurasian design that guided a pulsed high-energy weapon. The lab-rats were practically drooling over this stuff as they pointed its features out with their little rulers. 
But it gave Arturo the willies. It was a machine designed to kill other machines, and that was all right with him, but it was run by a non-three-laws positronic brain. Someone in some Eurasian lab had built this brain—this machine intelligence—without the three laws’ stricture to protect and serve humans. If it had been outfitted with a gun instead of a pulse-weapon, it could have shot him. 
The Eurasian brain was thin and spread out across the surface of the package, like a triple-thickness of cling-film. Its button-cell power-supply winked at him, knowingly. 
That was when I roused myself and reached for the phone. The time was pushing eleven, but I still wanted to check in on Sarah, see how she was doing. Had she come back to reality after I left? 
I was listening to the phone ring, my mind drifting to thoughts of how to gently ask Lou about her, when I realized nobody was picking up. 
What's going on? I wondered, immediately coming alert. Mrs. Reilly had probably gone home for the day, but no way would Lou be in bed before midnight. He always had trouble settling into sleep. 
Maybe, I then hoped, I'd just dialed the wrong number. But when I tried again, still no answer. 
I clicked off the phone and felt a wave of concern. If Colonel Jose Alvino Ramos could find out I was making a movie, and then find out where I lived, he sure as hell could locate my extended family. Was that what he'd meant when he mentioned me to Carly? 
I grabbed the set of Lou's keys I had stored in my bedroom's desk drawer and flew out the door. 
The streets were plastered with a grimy veneer of city snow, melting fast, but I pushed the limits of safety and ran a couple of lights since the traffic was spotty. There was a parking space just across the street from Lou's building, and as I pulled in I looked over at his windows. 
He gave me one of those irritatingly patient looks, one that basically said “you’re being a jerk, and we both know it, but I’ll be nice to you anyway.” Then I gave him his phone and he made the call and she answered right away (which was also annoying, that she right there, waiting to hear his voice, even though it was good that she was). He made it sound casual but also slightly mysteri- ous. If she knew him at all, if she had any brains under that purple hair, she’d know something was up, but nobody else listening in would. 
He left after I made him check to make sure he still had the phone I’d given him so we could connect after he talked to Bree. I packed up my laptop, gathered up the books, put them on a book cart, and left to find a place that served...  and charming and being really super nice to me on top of being cute. It was enough to make you sick. 
We got under way quickly. Nikko Convo’d me within twenty minutes to say they were ready to roll. I told him I’d be at a spot on Minnehaha that I knew was free of surveillance cameras. I did the same thing as before with my bike, acting as if it had a problem (which, to be honest, was hardly unusual), and he pulled up and acted as if he just happened to notice me there and would give me a ride. I stowed the bike in the trunk of Bree’s car, and climbed into the back seat that was cluttered with textbooks, crumpled papers, and empty kombucha bottles. Girl drank a lot of kombucha. 
It didn’t cross my mind to disobey her. I gestured at the windows, beckoning at Rio from a thousand yards away, not taking my eyes off the barrel of Arthur’s gun. 
Rio had told me this was a bad idea. I hadn’t listened. 
“You thought you could trap me?” said Dawna. She sounded more surprised and amused than angry. 
My throat was dry. “I had to give it a shot.” 
“No pun intended,” said Dawna. 
I gritted my teeth. “I didn’t know you had a sense of humor.” 
“Of course I do,” she said. “I have a great enjoyment of language in particular. I admit I don’t enjoy the more ribald—bullying, shall we say—brand of humor. It gives me no pleasure to put other people down.” 
“You put down a lot of your people out there today,” I said. I half-saw her stiffen out of the corner of my eye. “Hey, you’re the one who likes puns.” 
“I admit, we fell for the first part of your ruse.” Her voice was still soft, but the words had turned dangerous and threatening, the sound of a cobra sliding over dead leaves. “You killed many good men and women tonight. I won’t forget it.” 
“I’m afraid it hasn’t much to do with the case—with either of the cases,” he said; “but there is an emerald—my sister’s.” 
“It didn’t come from India?” 
“It did, though!” 
“Don’t tell me it was stolen from a temple! That would be too good to be true!” 
“I’m sorry,” he said; “but as far as I know, it’s never been stolen at all, and its history for the last eighty years hasn’t been sinister. One of the old rajahs gave it to my grandfather—a reward of merit, you know. When my father married, it went to my mother. She never had any trouble with it. She never wore it, because she didn’t like it.” 
“Why?” 
“Well, you see, it’s an ostentatious sort of thing, and she wasn’t ostentatious.” He paused a moment. “My father told me, before he died, that he wanted Muriel to have it when she was eighteen; and so, three years ago, I sent it over to her.” 
“But how?” 
“You’re a good detective,” said he, smiling again. “You don’t miss any of the points. It was a bit of a problem, how to send the thing; but I had the luck to find some people I knew who were coming over here, and they brought it. So that’s that!” 
She was right. But maybe I didn’t need to believe in general—I only needed to believe in certain people. I could manage that. 
Certain people. Arthur. Checker. Myself. 
Myself most of all. I had to believe I had it in me, somewhere, to do the right thing when it came down to the wire. Otherwise, why keep existing at all? I had nothing else of value— was nothing else. 
“Professor,” I said. “Act like this bothers you. Okay? We need to make them draw it out...” 
“I don’t understand what you mean. Of course it bothers me. They’re evil men, to be hurting you like that.” 
“They have to keep going,” I tried to explain. “To keep going, on—on me, and not anyone else. Tell them you’ll give them something if they stop, beg them, and then take it back. Convince them they’re getting to you—” 
There was a sound at the side of the room. The Lancer and his men, trooping back in. I wondered if they’d had cameras on us. Too late to worry about it now. 
“Have you decided to share with the class yet, Dr. Martinez?” The Lancer leaned on his walking stick, pinning Martinez with his intense stare like she was a butterfly on a card. “Or shall we continue?” 
“I asked Caroline to marry me,” he went on. “I told her I couldn’t give her much, but we could have had a jolly sort of life. Look here! Are you crying?” 
“A little bit,” Lexy admitted; “but don’t pay any attention to it. Go on!” 
“That’s about all there is. She said she would meet me here in Wyngate, because that’s the nearest station of the main line to some little place where a nurse or a governess of hers lived.” 
“Miss Craigie!” 
“Never heard the name. Anyhow, she wanted to go there after we got married, and—I wish you wouldn’t look like that!” 
“But I’m so awfully sorry for you!” 
“It was pretty hard, at first,” he said; “but—well, you see, I’ve thought a bit about it, and after all I’m glad we didn’t get married.” 
“Oh!” cried Lexy, profoundly shocked. “But that’s—” 
“Because I—you see, she didn’t—well, I don’t think she really liked me very much.” 
Lexy was astounded. 
“Fact!” said he. “What she wanted was romance, and all that sort of thing. She wanted to get away from home, and I was the only chance she had; so there you are!” 
› We’ll elect regional representatives and they’ll pick a Prime Minister. 
The Americans insisted on President, which Felix didn’t like. Seemed too partisan. His future wouldn’t be the American future. The American future had gone up with the White House. He was building a bigger tent than that....  
They spoke polyglot English in.recovery.logistics, and Felix had momentum on his side. Some of the admins were cooling out the inevitable stupid flamewars with the practice of long years. Some were chipping in useful suggestions. 
Surprisingly few thought that Felix was off his rocker. 
› I think we should hold elections as soon as possible. Tomorrow at the latest. We can’t rule justly without the consent of the governed. 
Within seconds the reply landed in his inbox. 
› You can’t be serious. Consent of the governed? Unless I miss my guess, most of the people you’re proposing to govern are puking their guts out, hiding under their desks, or wandering shell-shocked through the city streets. When do THEY get a vote? 
I rose up unsteadily and reached out, and realized I was in a hospital bed with metal bars along one side. 
What! How did I come to be in this? Then I began remembering. I was at Baalum , in Alex Goddard's Ninos del Mundo clinic. And I'd been trying to get Sarah and take her home. 
Instead, I'd passed out and then . . . an attack, some unspeakably evil . . . 
Get out of here. Now. 
I settled my feet onto the floor with a surge of determi­nation, and that was when I sensed I was in a different place from where I'd . . . Where—! 
I gazed around in the dark, then reached out and felt something on a table beside the bed. It was a clay bowl full of wax. What . . . a candle. And next to it I touched a plain book of matches. My hand was trembling from the pain in my groin, but I managed to light the candle, a flickering glow. 
My wristwatch was lying nearby on the table. Someone must have taken it off and placed it there. I picked it up and held it by the candle, and for a moment I was confused by the seconds ticking off. Then I realized the time was . . . How could that be! It read 4:57 A.M. Had I been out for hours? 
“Don’t stick around here all night again,” Felix said. “You need your sleep, too.” 
“You’re too good to us grunts,” Van said, and went back to typing. 
Felix went to the door and walked out into the night. Behind him, the biodiesel generator hummed and made its acrid fumes. The harvest moon was up, which he loved. Tomorrow, he’d go back and fix another computer and fight off entropy again. And why not? 
It was what he did. He was a sysadmin. 
The easiest way to write futuristic (or futurismic) science fiction is to predict, with rigor and absolute accuracy, the present day. 
Anda’s Game is a sterling example of this approach. I ripped a story from the headlines—reports on blogs about a stunning presentation at a video-games conference about “gold farmers” in latinamerica who were being paid a pittance “grind” (undertake boring, repetitive wealth-creating tasks in a game) with the product of their labor sold on to rich northern gamers who wanted to level-up without all the hard work. 
The practice of gold farming became more and more mainstream, growing with the online role-playing game industry and spreading around the world (legend has it that the Chinese rice harvest was endangered because so many real farmers had quit the field to pursue a more lucrative harvest in virtual online gold). Every time one of these stories broke, I was lionized for my spectacular prescience in so accurately predicting the gold-farming phenomenon—I had successfully predicted the present. 
"You started all the others, or it seemed as if you did. Whatever you do they all do, whether you laugh, or miss, or write notes, or ask to leave the room, or drink; and it must be stopped." 
"Sam Simpson is a copycoat!" stormed Rebecca "I wouldn't have minded standing in the corner alone—that is, not so very much; but I couldn't bear standing with him." 
"I saw that you couldn't, and that's the reason I told you to take your seat, and left him in the corner. Remember that you are a stranger in the place, and they take more notice of what you do, so you must be careful. Now let's have our conjugations. Give me the verb 'to be,' potential mood, past perfect tense." 
"I might have been   "We might have been   Thou mightst have been   You might have been   He might have been   They might have been." 
"Give me an example, please." 
"'He' or 'she' might have been glad because they are masculine and feminine, but could 'it' have been glad?" asked Miss Dearborn, who was very fond of splitting hairs. 
“But aren’t you going to—” 
“I am going to do nothing. You understand—nothing. There is to be no scandal in my house.” 
“But, Mrs. Enderby!” 
“Hush! No one must know of this. To-morrow morning I shall have a letter from Caroline.” 
“Oh!” said Lexy, with a sigh of genuine relief. “Oh, then you know where she’s gone!” 
“I?” replied Mrs. Enderby. “I know nothing. This has come to me from a clear sky. I have always tried to safeguard my child. I—” 
She paused for a moment, and for the first time Lexy pitied her. 
“It is the American blood in her,” Mrs. Enderby...  her parents so; but in this country— She has gone with some fortune hunter. To-morrow I shall have a letter that she is married. ‘Please forgive me,’ she will say. ‘I am so happy. I, at nineteen, and of an ignorance the most complete, have made my choice without you.’ That is the American way, is it not? That is your ‘romance,’ eh? My one child—” 
Her voice broke. 
“No more!” she said. “It is finished. But—attend, Miss Moran! There must be no scandal. No one is to know that she is not here.” 
“I can’t tell you—not now.” 
“You can’t leave it at that,” said he. He had taken her outstretched hand, and he held it tight. “I ought to know what has happened. I can’t believe that Caroline would let me down like that. She—she’s not that sort of girl. Something’s gone wrong. She wouldn’t leave me waiting and waiting there for her at Wyngate.” 
“Wyngate!” cried Lexy. “But that was—” 
She stopped abruptly. Caroline’s letter had been postmarked “Wyngate.” She had gone there to meet—some one. She had married—some one. 
“I can’t understand,” Lexy went on. “It’s terrible! I can’t tell you now; but I’ll meet you here this afternoon, after lunch—about two o’clock—and I’ll tell you then.” 
She turned away, then, in haste to get back to Mrs. Enderby, but he stopped her. 
“Remember!” he said sternly. “I’ve trusted you. If Caroline hasn’t told her people about me, you mustn’t mention my name. I gave her my word that I would let her do the telling. I didn’t want it that way, but I promised her, and you’ve got to do the same. If she hasn’t told about me, you’re not to.” 
You must know my experience in this matter will be extremely vital in dealing with this mathematician, but I still require some sort of tangible guarantee you’ll be bringing her directly to me... 
Her. He’d said “her.” 
Fuck. Oh, Jesus, fuck. 
Women in mathematics were the minority, and I’d been careful never to use a pronoun so as not to give him any clue. The Lancer knew we were going after Rita Martinez. 
How had he figured it out? Only Arthur, Checker, Halliday, and I knew Martinez was involved at all. And Zhang, but he wouldn’t have told anyone. 
Could the Lancer have made a wild guess based on Martinez’s and Halliday’s friendship, and the fact that they were both in the same subfield? No, that was ridiculous; this problem had a one-in-infinity chance of being solved by anyone, and he would know that. Absent other information, it would be far more likely someone halfway around the world had solved it and was simply keeping an eye on how the U.S. government was responding to a similar proof here in California. 
“Detective?” he said. 
Arturo looked up from his screen, keeping his expression neutral, not acknowledging the mean grins from the other four ranking detectives in the meeting. Silently, he turned his phone face-down on the meeting table. 
“Thank you,” he said. “Now, the latest stats show a sharp rise in grey-market electronics importing and other tariff-breaking crimes, mostly occurring in open-air market stalls and from sidewalk blankets. I know that many in law enforcement treat this kind of thing as mere hand-to-hand piracy, not worth troubling with, but I want to assure you, gentlemen and lady, that Social Harmony takes these crimes very seriously indeed.” 
The Social Harmony man lifted his computer onto the desk, steadying it with both hands, then plugged it into the wall socket. Detective Shainblum went to the wall and unlatched the cover for the projector-wire and dragged it over to the Social Harmony computer and plugged it in, snapping shut the hardened collar. The sound of the projector-fan spinning up was like a helicopter. 
“Only this time it’s not wrong, because you’re not really saying those two cops acted like Nazis. You’re saying people are respon- sible for their actions even if they’re following orders, which God- win would agree with. That’s the guy who came up with the law originally.” 
I realized I was babbling out of nervousness, but I couldn’t seem to stop, as if a lot of words would fill up the room and crowd out the bad feeling the two cops left behind. “I first looked him up when the FBI sent Wikipedia a takedown notice over a picture of their official seal, which was totally unfair because the Encyclopae^ dia Britannica had the same picture in their article and nobody made them take it down. They were just picking on Wikipedia because they could. Godwin wrote this hilarious letter explaining why they were legally off base.” 
“When was this?” 
“Years ago. I remember reading about it when I was ten years old, maybe? It was smart, but funny, too. He figured the best way to deal with an abuse of power is to make fun of it publicly.” 
"You like Captain Shadow?" 
"Duh," Ray shoots back. "Which one is this?" 
"The one where Carok tries to blow up the colony's shield generator by sneaking up through the caves." 
Ray makes a sour face, rolls his eyes. "Ugh. After Shadow added Godara Jengo to the crew? I hate him. He's such a loser, and he's not very funny. " 
A dozen synchronized collections of breath. They know exactly what he's talking about. Jengo appeared in the third or fourth season, after some network suit decided Shadow needed a humorous sidekick to kick up the market share. 
"What's your name?" the boy asks. 
"Ray." 
The kid holds out his hand, a solemnly adult gesture. Ray shakes with him. "My name's John Robert. John Robert Rose. Do you want to watch with us?" 
Ray glances at Emma, rolls his shoulders. It isn't exactly what he was expecting, but he can think of worse ways to pass an hour. "It's Captain Shadow." 
"You can sit by me," John Robert says, scooting across the couch to make space. "You can watch too, Miss Emma, if you want. You might like Captain Shadow. He's smart, and he likes Princess Shemi, but he only kisses on her sometimes. But not in this one, I hope." 
“Miss Moran!” she cried. “How very nice to—” 
“Miss Moran will wait, I’m sure,” the doctor interrupted. “You must rest for half an hour, Muriel.” 
Taking her by the arm, he led her down the room. In the doorway she looked back and smiled at her visitor; and if anything had been needed to steel Lexy’s heart against the doctor, that smile on his wife’s face would have done it—that poor, plaintive little smile. 
Standing there by Mrs. Quelton’s empty chair, she waited for him to return, a cold and terrible anger rising in her. She heard his step in the hall, heavy and deliberate, and presently he reëntered the room and came toward her, his blank, dull eyes fixed upon nothing. She was quite certain that he wanted to put her out of his way, and that he had no scruple whatever as to methods; yet for all her youth and inexperience, her utter loneliness, she felt that she was a match for him. 
“So you’ve come back to us, Miss Moran,” he said in his lifeless voice. “I was afraid you might not.” 
“I’ve got to go, Lucy,” she said. Her wrists hurt, and her podge overlapped the waistband of her trousers, making her feel a bit like she was drowning. 
“What, now? Shit, just hang on.” 
“My mom’s calling me to supper. You’re almost here, right?” 
“Yeah, but—” 
She reached down and shut off her PC. 
Anda’s Da and Mum were watching the telly again with a bowl of crisps between them. She walked past them like she was dreaming and stepped out the door onto the terrace. It was nighttime, 11 o’clock, and the chavs in front of the council flats across the square were kicking a football around and swilling lager and making rude noises. They were skinny and rawboned, wearing shorts and string vests with strong, muscular limbs flashing in the streetlights. 
“Anda?” 
“Yes, Mum?” 
“Are you all right?” Her mum’s fat fingers caressed the back of her neck. 
“Yes, Mum. Just needed some air is all.” 
“You’re very clammy,” her mum said. She licked a finger and scrubbed it across Anda’s neck. “Gosh, you’re dirty—how did you get to be such a mucky puppy?” 
“Five or six. It’s about three hundred and fifty miles from here. 
I checked.” 
“We can share the driving.” 
“I can’t drive. I can’t even get a provisional license until next year.” 
“Oh, right. Well I got an actual real driver’s license and I can borrow a car from my parents. Unless you can think of something else.” 
“I can’t. Actually, my brain isn’t working very well.” I tried to give him the bandana back, but he waved it away, which didn’t surprise me because it was pretty gross. 
“Before we decide anything,” I said, gathering my thoughts, “I want to listen to that recording you made.” 
“I’ll pretend to do research while figuring out what excuse to give my parents,” Nikko said, pulling over a stack of books. I used earbuds in hopes that anyone who saw me would think I was lis- tening to music while being my normal studious self, with a little emotional meltdown thrown in. 
I had to concentrate, because there was a lot of background noise from the people at the Owl who were stenciling signs and talking about oppression and capitalism and who had the glue and could somebody pass the scissors. But Simon’s voice was louder than the others (naturally). When somebody mentioned the good old days of the Occupy movement, Simon started ranting about how it was useless because the people involved were too hung up on consensus. “You want to speak truth to power? First you have to punch it in the nose to get its attention.” 
“I’m going to keep looking into this a little longer before breaking off and joining with the Feds. Checker, you got anything else?” 
“The SUV that tried to kill you has hit police impound,” said Checker. 
Arthur nodded. “I’ll pull some strings, get in to take a look.” 
“While you do that, can I have Cas? I could use her help for the van tracking. Extrapolation is sort of your thing,” Checker added to me. 
“Done,” said Arthur. I wondered if I heard a hint of relief in his voice that he wasn’t going to have to wrangle my differences in method for a while, and then wondered if I was being paranoid. He’d asked me in on this, hadn’t he? 
As a last resort. Because nobody else knew enough math. Not because he wanted me on the job with him. 
“You’re sending Pilar into the lion’s den. You realize that, don’t you?” The accusation spewed out harshly as Arthur hung up. It wasn’t what I wanted to say. “If the NSA thinks she’s involved, or just thinks she’s hiding anything, they could bury her.” 
He scrubbed a hand across his face and didn’t answer. 
Now I was back in Social Studies class, and Mrs Andersen greeted me with voluble, sarcastic courtesy, asking me sweetly how my "holiday" had been. I sat down and mumbled nothing. I could hear Charles snicker. 
She taught us a class on Manifest Destiny, the idea that the Americans were destined to take over the whole world (or at least that's how she made it seem) and seemed to be trying to provoke me into saying something so she could throw me out. 
I felt the eyes of the class on me, and it reminded me of M1k3y and the people who looked up to him. I was sick of being looked up to. I missed Ange. 
I got through the rest of the day without anything making any kind of mark on me. I don't think I said eight words. 
Finally it was over and I hit the doors, heading for the gates and the stupid Mission and my pointless house. 
I was barely out the gate when someone crashed into me. He was a young homeless guy, maybe my age, maybe a little older. He wore a long, greasy overcoat, a pair of baggy jeans, and rotting sneakers that looked like they'd been through a wood-chipper. His long hair hung over his face, and he had a pubic beard that straggled down his throat into the collar of a no-color knit sweater. 
"Public record, of course. But pretty obscure. Too tempting to a certain prankster mindset." 
Lawrence shook his head. "Learn something new every day." 
The guard made a gesture that caused something to depressurize in the gateway. A primed hum vibrated through the floorboards. "We keep the inside of the vestibule at 10 atmospheres, and it opens inward from outside. No one can force that door open without us knowing about it in a pretty dramatic way." 
"But it must take forever to re-pressurize?" 
"Not many people go in and out. Just data." 
Lawrence patted himself down. 
"You got everything?" 
"Do I seem nervous to you?" 
The old timer picked up his tea and sipped at it. "You'd be an idiot if you weren't. How long since you've been out?" 
"Not since I came in. Sixteen years ago. I was twenty one." 
"Yeah," the old timer said. "Yeah, you'd be an idiot if you weren't nervous. You follow politics?" 
"Not my thing," Lawrence said. "I know it's been getting worse out there --" 
The old timer barked a laugh. "Not your thing? It's probably time you got out into the wide world, son. You might ignore politics, but it won't ignore you ." 
I started slowly, and watched Barbara take notes. I drank a...  what ARGing was and how I got out of school to play. Mom and Dad and Mr Glover all listened intently to this part. I poured myself another cup and drank it on the way to explaining how we were taken in. By the time I'd run through the whole story, I'd drained the pot and I needed a piss like a race-horse. 
Her bathroom was just as stark as the living-room, with a brown, organic soap that smelled like clean mud. I came back in and found the adults quietly watching me. 
Mr Glover told his story next. He didn't have anything to say about what had happened, but he explained that he was a veteran and that his son was a good kid. He talked about what it felt like to believe that his son had died, about how his ex-wife had had a collapse when she found out and ended up in a hospital. He cried a little, unashamed, the tears streaming down his lined face and darkening the collar of his dress-uniform. 
When it was all done, Barbara went into a different room and came back with a bottle of Irish whiskey. "It's a Bushmills 15 year old rum-cask aged blend," she said, setting down four small cups. None for me. "It hasn't been sold in ten years. I think this is probably an appropriate time to break it out." 
“They were just checking to make sure you’re okay.” 
“What did they say about Wilson?” 
“They told me he has a good lawyer. They’re hopeful, but con- cerned. They thought . . .” she paused, picking her words care- fully. “They wondered if you might want to go home for a while.” 
“To their house? No way.” 
“There would be no problem with school because it’s online. 
You wouldn’t be left alone in the house to deal with the police all by yourself if they show up again, and if reporters came around — ” 
“No. Stop.” She stopped. I took my hands off my ears, but they balled into fists and I couldn’t unclench them. My words seemed to echo in the silence while I waited for the neighbors downstairs to pick up their broomstick and thump it against the ceiling. 
“Do you want me to go?” I asked. 
“I want whatever you want.” 
“So the police don’t hassle you anymore? So you can spend the night with Mexican Guy whenever you want?” 
“Zen . . .” 
“I don’t care. I’m not going back there.” I could hear the hurt in her voice, but I was too angry to care. 
Please tell Miss Enderby that I understand. I am sorry she didn’t tell me before that she had changed her mind, instead of letting me wait like that; but it’s finished now. Please tell her she can count on me to hold my tongue, and never to bother her again in any way. 
We are sailing to-night, or I should have tried to see you to-morrow. In case you have any message for me, you can address me at the company’s office, J. J. Eames & Son, 99 State Street. I expect to be back in about six weeks. 
Very truly yours, 
Charles Houseman. 
“Sailing to-night!” cried Lexy. “Then he’s gone! He’s gone!” 
“So you are still of the same mind?” inquired Mrs. Enderby. 
“More so, if anything,” Lexy answered seriously. 
It was after breakfast the next morning. Mr. Enderby had gone to his office, and Mrs. Enderby and Lexy were alone in the dining room. There was an odd sort of friendliness between them. Lexy felt no constraint in asking questions. 
“There isn’t any letter this morning, is there, Mrs. Enderby?” 
Her mother let her go. 
“I don’t know if I can come back for you,” Natalie said. “It’s not safe. Social Harmony is using more and more Eurasian technology, they’re not as primitive as the military and the police here.” She gave Ada a shove, and she came to his arms. 
“If you want to contact us, you will,” he said. 
He didn’t want to risk having Ada dig her heels in. He lifted her onto his hip—she was heavy, it had been years since he’d tried this last—and carried her out. 
It was six months before Ada went missing again. She’d been increasingly moody and sullen, and he’d chalked it up to puberty. She’d cancelled most of their daddy-daughter dates, moreso after his mother died. There had been a few evenings when he’d come home and found her gone, and used the location-bug he’d left in place on her phone to track her down at a friend’s house or in a park or hanging out at the Peanut Plaza. 
But this time, after two hours had gone by, he tried looking up her bug and found it out of service. He tried to call up its logs, but they ended at her school at 3PM sharp. 
“This looks great,” Nikko said, adding the jar of shelled nuts to the abundance. 
“I love your chickens, and those goats! They’re so darling!” 
Bree said. 
“Did you take pictures with your phone?” Our host seemed suddenly like the person standing on the porch with a gun. “Post them to Facebook? Did all your ‘friends’ like them?” She waggled her fingers to make scare quotes in the air. 
“No. I don’t even have a Facebook account.” Bree looked con- fused and offended. 
“Our phones are switched off and in a Faraday pouch,” I said. 
“That’s not for your sake. It’s for Wheeze. He — ” 
“Yeah, I know.” She help up her palms in surrender. “Sorry. I just don’t like all this new stuff. Everyone sharing everything. It’s not good.” 
“It’s not the sharing that’s bad,” Bree said, still prickly. “It’s the data mining. It’s the way we give up privacy without realizing what’s going on. There’s nothing wrong with sharing stuff with your friends.” 
“It’s the wrong kind of sharing,” Jane Shandy muttered grumpily. “Just showing off.” 
“Could you let Danny know we’re here?” 
“Fine. Then I’m going back to bed with the baby. If you want anything, you’ll have to get it yourselves.” She said it perfectly, 
stomping up the stairs as if she was offended, not scared stiff. 
“This is bullshit,” the big one muttered, giving me the side- eye. 
“How’d you hear about this meeting, anyway?” Skinny asked me, all friendly, ignoring Big Guy. 
“Simon Meyer told me about it. Your friend, Simon. Isn’t he coming? I thought this was all his idea.” 
Skinny shook his head. Big Guy tried to catch his eye. He didn’t say it out loud, but I could read his impatient body lan- guage. It’s going wrong. Let’s call this off before it’s too late. I had to find a way to make them stay. 
“You know how on the news they keep talking about the tenth one?” I said. “The fugitive they’re chasing? You’re after the wrong person. He wasn’t even involved. I’m the tenth one. My brother tried to keep me out of it, but they got themselves arrested and now I’m the only one left.” 
I started down 24th Street toward Potrero Hill and home, rolling my shoulders and smelling the burrito smells wafting out of the restaurants and thinking about dinner. 
I don't know why I happened to glance back over my shoulder, but I did. Maybe it was a little bit of subconscious sixth-sense stuff. I knew I was being followed. 
They were two beefy white guys with little mustaches that made me think of either cops or the gay bikers who rode up and down the Castro, but gay guys usually had better haircuts. They had on windbreakers the color of old cement and blue-jeans, with their waistbands concealed. I thought of all the things a cop might wear on his waistband, of the utility-belt that DHS guy in the truck had worn. Both guys were wearing Bluetooth headsets. 
I kept walking, my heart thumping in my chest. I'd been expecting this since I started. I'd been expecting the DHS to figure out what I was doing. I took every precaution, but Severe-Haircut woman had told me that she'd be watching me. She'd told me I was a marked man. I realized that I'd been waiting to get picked up and taken back to jail. Why not? Why should Darryl be in jail and not me? What did I have going for me? I hadn't even had the guts to tell my parents -- or his -- what had really happened to us. 
“Anything to get rid of him!” she said to herself. “I want to be let alone!” 
She lay down on the bed again, pulling a blanket over herself. Downstairs she could hear Mrs. Royce moving about in the kitchen, and Captain Grey’s singularly agreeable voice talking to the landlady. It seemed to her that they were in a different world, and that she was shut outside, in a black and terrible solitude. 
“If I can only sleep!” she thought. “Perhaps, in the morning—” 
She was beginning to feel a little drowsy now. How heavenly it would be to sleep, even for a little while! To sleep and to forget! 
The wind was blowing through the dark little room, bringing to her the perfume of the roses—a wonderful fragrance. It was wonderful, but almost too strong. It was too strong. It troubled her. 
“I’ll put them out on the window sill,” she murmured. “It’s such a queer scent!” 
She didn’t seem able to get up, or even to move. She sighed faintly, and closed her eyes. The wind blew, strong and steady, heavy with that sweet and subtle odor. 
Why did we have cameras in our classrooms now? Terrorists. Of course. Because by blowing up a bridge, terrorists had indicated that schools were next. Somehow that was the conclusion that the Board had reached anyway. 
I read this note three times and then I stuck my hand up. 
"Yes, Marcus?" 
"Ms Galvez, about this note?" 
"Yes, Marcus." 
"Isn't the point of terrorism to make us afraid? That's why it's called terror ism, right?" 
"I suppose so." The class was staring at me. I wasn't the best student in school, but I did like a good in-class debate. They were waiting to hear what I'd say next. 
"So aren't we doing what the terrorists want from us? Don't they win if we act all afraid and put cameras in the classrooms and all of that?" 
There was some nervous tittering. One of the others put his hand up. It was Charles. Ms Galvez called on him. 
"Putting cameras in makes us safe, which makes us less afraid." 
"Safe from what?" I said, without waiting to be called on. 
"Terrorism," Charles said. The others were nodding their heads. 
Adele waited by the passenger door, in a pair of slacks and a light blouse. She had hung a pair of sunglasses around her neck on a gold chain, and carried an enormous sisal handbag. Staggering in the horrible daylight, Sean opened the passenger door for her, and offered his arm while she got in. 
He put the car onto the Bee Line Expressway and pointed it at the airport. 
"Oh, won't this be fun ?" Adele said, as he ground the crap from the corners of his eyes and steered with his knees. "I'm sure your father is charming . Maybe the five of us can go to Universal for an afternoon." 
"I don't think we can take them off the ward," Sean grunted, changing lanes for the airport exit. 
"You're probably right," Adele said. "I was just thinking that Universal might be enough to keep them both switched on." 
Sean shot her a look and nearly missed his exit. 
Adele rattled a laugh at him. "Don't look so surprised. I know which end is up!" 
Sean pursed his lips and navigated the ramp-maze that guarded the airport. He pulled up to the loading zone at Air Canada arrivals and switched off the engine. He looked past Adele at the tourists jockeying for cabs. "I'm sorry about yesterday. I guess I'm a little wound up." 
He found himself half in love with her and he hadn't said a word. "It's nice to meet you, Ms --" 
"Ria," she said. "Call me Ria." She sat down on one of the topiary chairs, kicking off her comfortable hush puppies and pulling her legs up to sit cross-legged. 
"I've never gone barefoot in this room," he said, looking at her calloused feet -- feet that did a lot of barefooting. 
"Do it," she said, making scooting gestures. "I insist. Do it!" 
He kicked off the handmade shoes -- designed by an architect who'd given up on literary criticism to pursue cobblery -- and used his toes to peel off his socks. Under his feet, the ground was -- warm? cool? -- it was perfect . He couldn't pin down the texture, but it made every nerve ending on the sensitive soles of his feet tingle pleasantly. 
"I'm thinking something that goes straight into the nerves," she said. "It has to be. Extraordinary." 
"You know your way around this place better than I do," he said. 
She shrugged. "This room was clearly designed to impress. It would be stupid to be so cool-obsessed that I failed to let it impress me. I'm impressed. Also," she dropped her voice, "also, I'm wondering if anyone's ever snuck in here and screwed on that stuff." She looked seriously at him and he tried to keep a straight face, but the chuckle wouldn't stay put in his chest, and it broke loose, and a laugh followed it, and she whooped and they both laughed, hard, until their stomachs hurt. 
“Nothing here,” said Captain Grey. 
Lexy was sure, however, that there was. She stepped to the balcony railing, to look down into the garden below, and there, on the white paint of the railing, she found something. 
“Look!” she said, in a matter-of-fact voice. “What’s this?” 
He came to her side. 
“It’s the print of a hand,” he said. “In blood, I should imagine.” 
For a moment they stared at the ghastly mark, a strange evidence of pain and violence in this quiet place. 
“We’d better look in the garden,” he suggested. 
They went down. The grass beneath the balcony was beaten down in one place, but there was nothing else. Some one had come and gone. They could not even guess who it had been. They knew nothing. 
“Come, Lexy!” the captain said. 
They both turned for one last look at the accursed house, blazing with spectral lights. Then they set off, away from it, over that weary road again. 
“There’s no police station in the village, is there?” he asked. 
“I’ve never seen one, but I’ve heard Mrs. Royce talk about the constable. Anyhow, she can tell us.” 
By now, they would have told him he could have a phone call, 
but they’d make it sound like he was obviously guilty and just try- ing to get off. I could imagine him paging through the yellow pages jammed with full-page ads for drunk driver attorneys, having no idea who to call or what to say. I’ll bet there aren’t any lawyers who advertise in the yellow pages that they specialize in people accused of terrorism. 
Would Wilson call me? I wanted him to. I wanted him to think I could fix it, that when he made a choice between me and Zip, he chose wrong. But I didn’t want him to call because it would screw things up if the FBI knew I was on his side. Don’t call me I told him silently through the airwaves, hoping it would cancel out the part of me that wanted to hear him say “Zen? I’m in trouble. I need your help.” 
Then I remembered Wilson wouldn’t know how to call me. 
They would have taken his phone, and he wouldn’t remember my number by heart. He could barely remember to put on a coat when it was snowing outside. Feeling better, I...  to strip paint and got to work. 
These must be some of his acolytes, I thought, the ones I heard in their nuns' cells the first time I was here. What on earth does all this orientalism have to do with fertility? I then found myself wondering. I've studied the Far East enough to do "penetrating" documentaries about it, and I still can't get pregnant. 
I took one look at them—none of them looked at me—and my heart went out. They were so sincere, so sure of what they were doing. For somebody who's always questioning everything, like me, it was touching, and maybe a little daunt­ing too. 
Without a word, Ramala led me past them and on to an entryway at the far end of the courtyard, past the giant Danc­ing Shiva. The door was huge and ornate, decorated with beaten-copper filigree—much like one I'd seen in a Mogul palace in Northern India. Definitely awe-inspiring. 
She pushed open the door without ceremony and there he was, dressed in white and looking for all the world like the miracle worker he claimed to be. He seemed to be meditating in his chair, but the moment I entered, his deep eyes snapped open. 
“Nice one,” I said. 
“Well. It seems I am capable of inspiring some fear.” 
Considering what I’d gone through to get Arthur and Checker in the same room with him, and the fact that Dawna Polk was jeopardizing her whole organization to turn him, I thought he was making the understatement of the year. 
“How does your work here progress?” Rio asked, following me back inside. 
Most of the time he’d been gone had been spent rehashing our moral quandary—in comparison, the programming had been easy. “It’s done. Pretty much. We just have to set up and format the messages according to what we got from Steve and Company a minute ago. A few hours, tops. Have they deployed alerts to all the right agencies yet?” 
“He said it would be done within two hours of our conversation, which time is now past. Your notifications will be taken seriously.” 
“Hey, Checker,” I called as we came in. “We’re good to go. Steve’s sent out all the alerts. As soon as we’re ready, we can—” 
The lights went out. Simultaneously, all of Checker’s monitors died, their glow an afterimage in the dimness, and the all-pervading hum of the electronics cut off, leaving us in sudden silence. 
“But do you mean that she’s really—that she’s—” she began. 
“See, then!” said Mrs. Enderby. “Here is the letter!” 
I only beg you and papa to forgive me for what I have done; but I knew that if I told you, you would not have let me go. When you get this I shall be married. To-morrow I shall write again, to tell you where I am, and to beg you to let me bring my husband to you. 
Oh, please, dear, dear mother and father, forgive me! 
Your loving, loving daughter, 
Caroline. 
“You see!” said Mrs. Enderby. “It is as I told you.” 
There were tears in Lexy’s eyes as she put the letter back into the envelope. 
“It doesn’t seem a bit like Caroline, though,” she remarked. 
Mrs. Enderby smiled again, faintly, and held out her hand for the letter. Lexy returned it to her, with an almost mechanical glance at the postmark—“Wyngate, Connecticut.” 
All her defiance had vanished. She was obliged to admit now that Mrs. Enderby was wise, and that she herself was— “A little fool!” said Lexy candidly to herself. 
“So what shall I do for you?” 
“It’s Kate I want to talk to. She’s still there, right?” 
“She is.” 
“And has she noticed the difference?” 
“That you’re gone? Yes. The reef told us who they were when they arrived.” 
“Hold on, what? The reef? You said that before.” 
So Robbie told him what he knew of the uplifted reef and the distant and cool voice of the uplifter. 
“It’s an uplifted coral reef ? Christ, humanity sucks . That’s the dumbest fucking thing—” He continued in this vein for a while. “Well, I’m sure Kate will enjoy that immensely." 
“You’re her son?” 
“No, not really.” 
“But she had you?” 
“Haven’t you figured it out yet, bro? Kate instantiated me. I’m six months old, and she’s already bored of me and has moved on. She says she can’t give me what I need.” 
“You and Kate—” 
“Robot boyfriend and girlfriend, yup. Such as it is, up in the noosphere. Cybering, you know. I was really excited about downloading into that Ken doll on your ship there. Lots of potential there for real world, hormone-driven interaction. Do you know if we—” 
and then a gravel road, and then onto an even smaller gravel road. 
“Are you sure this is the right way?” Nikko asked when I told him to turn onto something that was just a couple of wheel tracks through the snow. 
“Maybe? I don’t want to enable my GPS, so I can’t be sure.” 
It petered out in the middle of a field, so Nikko backed up through the corn stubble until we were back on the gravel road. 
Even with the pills, Wheeze winced with every bump. We tried two more dead ends before finally coming to a mailbox that said SHANDY on it. A sign nailed to the mailbox post said NO HUNTING in drippy red paint, like a poster for a horror movie. 
Another one nailed below it said ABSOLUTELY NO TRES- PASSING. There was a cattle guard and a rusty gate secured with a loop of bent wire. Bree got out to open it and secure it behind us before climbing back in. 
The rutted dirt track wound through a pasture, then down into a wooded valley and up again, coming to an old farmhouse. 
A weather-beaten man wearing a faded John Deere cap with gray hair sticking out from under it stood on the porch holding a shot- gun. Nikko pulled in under an oak tree. Its dry coppery leaves chattered in a breeze as I carefully scooted out from under Wheeze’s swollen ankle and got out to face the person who I hoped was Zeke’s contact. If it wasn’t, things would get awkward. 
I followed him into the living room and allowed him to ensconce me on his couch. He levered out of his chair to sit next to me; across from us, a black-and-white Western played on the flat screen, the volume muted. Tall, rugged white men squinted at each other and put meaningful hands on their six-shooters. 
I can draw faster than that, I thought. But I couldn’t do what really mattered. 
“What happened?” said Checker softly. 
I stared down into the cider. The steam coming off it burned my face and made my eyes water. “I think I lost something,” I said. 
He waited. 
“I don’t know if I can explain it,” I mumbled. “Working with Halliday...I hadn’t realized, before. I can’t...I used to be able to do that.” 
“Do what?” asked Checker gently. 
“The...the spark.” I wasn’t sure what to call it. “The leap...the inspiration, or intuition, or—I can’t...I can’t do it. I can’t do...math. Not real math. Not the type that counts.” My voice crackled around the edges. 
He digested that. I wasn’t sure what I would do if he told me just to keep on, that he knew I could do it, or some bullshit like that. Or, worse, if he told me it wasn’t important, that lots of people couldn’t do it, that this was a minor thing, a nothing thing—because it didn’t matter if other people couldn’t; other people had husbands and wives and children and hobbies and passions and lives, but mathematics was the only thing I had, the only thing that made me worth anything at all. And the one piece of it that made me a person ...it was gone. 
“She could make you believe black is white. She could make a mother kill her child and enjoy it.” 
The words parsed in my head, but they didn’t make sense. “ How?” I breathed. 
“She plays on emotions. Expertly. Small influences, but her targets eventually feel and believe whatever she wishes them to.” 
“Small influences that can drive people to murder?” 
“For an act that defies her target’s psychology in the extreme, it is true that it would take her time, not a single conversation. Months, perhaps, depending on the person she targets.” 
“But you’re saying even a strong enough person can’t—” 
“Strength does not enter into it,” he corrected. “It is—I suppose you would say psychology. What you would call a weaker mind might prevail for longer, simply because it may be more comfortable with the mental contradictions her influence would produce. Or it might fold immediately. Each psychology is unique, and each will itself respond differently according to what she attempts.” 
“And there’s no way to fight it?” I pleaded. 
“Well—we can try it. But no promises.” 
His reply might not be the resounding enthusiasm I’d hoped for, but at least he’d said yes. “You’ll see. We can do this.” 
Checker cleared his throat. “Cas, pick the phone back up, please.” 
I avoided catching Arthur’s eye as I did so. I levered myself up off the bed, making a face as my wet clothes pulled against my skin and my chest wound twinged, and walked between Arthur and Rio to head over by the windows. “You’ve just got me now,” I said into the phone. 
He came straight to the point. “I can’t trust you. Or Arthur.” 
I didn’t blame him. “So we do this remotely,” I said. “So what?” 
He made a hissing sound. “It’ll go a lot faster if we’re in the same room.” He was right. I wasn’t sure what he wanted me to say, though—I couldn’t give him any guarantees, as much as I would have liked to. “And, uh, one other problem. I think I’m going to need more processor power than I took with me, and I don’t have enough cash left—I can’t make a withdrawal while Pithica’s trying to track me down, and—” 
The pages were crumpled up and crammed against an old-school boom box. I picked them up and smoothed them out. I recognized Martinez’s dense script from the note she’d left for Halliday. 
I read them. Then I read them again. 
Holy shit. I knew why she thought she’d broken the world. 
Because...she had. 
She had. 
I moved toward the door in a daze. 
“Are you leaving?” asked the old man. He sounded sad. “You could stay for dinner. I have the kind in the little trays.” 
“I have to go,” I got out. 
“We didn’t find your mother’s notes,” he said. He turned his head from side to side, lost. “I know they were here somewhere. She said the end was coming, you know.” 
She had been right. 
He’d better stock up on more of those dinners with the trays. I didn’t tell him that. I didn’t say anything. I just let myself out. 
Once on the street, my legs went limp and I sat down hard on the curb. Martinez hadn’t found a factoring proof. She’d found something so much more explosive, so much more deadly. 
Checker was sputtering. “You got shot? Are you okay?” 
“Yeah, fine. Arthur’s been smothering me. I think he feels guilty. ’Cause it was, you know, his fault.” I peeked at Arthur. He looked ready to murder me. “He still seems under the influence a bit,” I told Checker. “But he’s lucid enough that he hasn’t been calling Dawna to come get us, so I think he’ll probably be all right.” I had already figured that the only reason Rio had let Arthur stay was that he’d needed the extra hand in helping me back from the brink of death—as a general rule, Rio didn’t like working with other people if he didn’t have to—but it occurred to me that he probably would have kicked him to the curb anyway if he’d judged Arthur was still enough of Dawna’s tool to be a danger. It made me feel better about Arthur’s chances. 
“Oh,” said Checker in a small voice. “Okay.” 
I winced at his tone. I wasn’t the only one Arthur had betrayed, and Checker had known him a hell of a lot longer. “He really couldn’t help it, you know,” I said, adding in a spurt of honesty, “Uh, neither of us could. I would have given you away too, if I’d known how.” I thought of Rio and was flooded with shame again. “Don’t blame him.” 
Still conversing with great affability, Mrs. Royce led the reluctant writer upstairs to the small room prepared for her, and shut her in. Lexy sat down in a chair before the workmanlike table, and grinned ruefully. She had said she was a writer, and now she had to be one. 
“Well,” she reflected, “here’s a chance to write to Mr. Houseman, anyhow.” 
She never had the least difficulty in writing letters. For one reason, she never bothered about them unless she had something to say, and then she said it, briefly and lucidly, and was done. She told Mr. Houseman all she knew about Caroline’s disappearance, and explained that she had gone out to Wyngate in the hope of picking up some trace of her. 
“Of course,” she wrote, “I don’t know whether I’ll still be here when you get back. If I’ve gone, I’ll leave my address with Mrs. Royce, in case you should want to communicate with me.” 
This was admirable, so far; but, reading it over, Lexy was not satisfied. She remembered the misery, the trouble and anxiety, in Mr. Houseman’s blue eyes. She imagined him sailing the seas, bitterly hurt because he thought Caroline had changed her mind. She thought of him coming back and getting this letter, to revive .all his alarm for Caroline. This wasn’t, after all, a business letter. 
"I've got the logfiles, Grampa," Sean said. 
"What the hell do a twelve-year-old and a grown man have to talk about? I kept him fed. I took him out to the carny and to kiddee movies. I drove him to hockey." 
"You switched off , Grampa," Sean said. "The you that counted wasn't there." 
"Sophistry," Grampa said. "Bullshit. I remember all of it. I was there. Not many other parents were, let me tell you. Usually, it was just me and a few others in the stands, or kids running around loose like animals at the carny. Your father has nothing to complain about." 
"Why, aren't you two looking excited?" Adele said, hobbling alongside of the table. She was leaning on Ethan, a vigorous old man with sinewy arms and dead eyes. His face was unlined, free from smile lines and frowning creases. 
"Hi, Adele," Sean said, trying to keep the exasperation out of his voice. 
"Ethan, this is Sean and his grandfather, Brice." 
Ethan extended his hand and Sean shook it. "Very nice to meet you," Ethan said. His hand was dry and papery, his eyes vacant. Sean shook it, and a frisson of shameful disgust sizzled up his abdomen. He had a sudden vision of Ethan's brain, desiccated in his skull, the gleaming edges of the chip poking free. He surreptitiously wiped his hand on his pants as Ethan turned to Grampa and shook his hand. "Very nice to meet you." 
With this solemn warning in her ears, Lexy descended the stairs. She saw Dr. Quelton standing in the hall, hat in hand, waiting for her. The doctor was rather a disappointment. He was not the dark, sinister figure he should have been. He was a big man, powerfully built, with a clumsy stoop to his tremendous shoulders. His heavy, clean-shaven face would have been an agreeable one if it had not been for its expression, but that expression was not at all an alarming or dangerous one. It was an expression of the most utter and hopeless boredom. 
He came toward her. 
“Miss Moran?” he asked. 
Even his voice was listless, and his glance was without a spark of interest. 
“Yes,” said she. 
“My brother-in-law, Captain Grey, told us you were here, and I did myself the honor of calling,” he went on. 
“You certainly were quick about it!” thought Lexy. “Captain Grey couldn’t have reached his sister’s house an hour ago, and it’s three miles from here. Won’t you come into the sitting room?” she asked aloud. 
“We take him here,” I said, and showed him the map. 
S o we were on the road, but not without having an argument first. 
I called Monica and gave her a line about how I wanted to take a break and had a chance to stay overnight with a friend from school whose family had a lake cottage in Sibley County. “She says there’s a wood stove so it will be plenty warm enough and we won’t party or anything. It’s just me and her and her dog. He’s a good watchdog, so it will be totally safe.” 
It took her a while to respond. I hoped she was thinking about how someone from the Joint Terrorism Task Force could be lis- tening in before she made a decision. Besides, I’d planted clues. 
We both thought there were way too many monuments and places named after Henry Hastings Sibley, so I chose that county deliberately. I might have been a little heavy-handed when I added the watchdog stuff, but if she picked up on my Sibley clue, she probably also realized I was doing something risky, and I needed a way to tell her I would be careful. 
“So does this,” I said. 
I didn’t move as fast as I could have. I wanted to see his eyes widen in startled realization in the split-second before he died. 
The body slid to the ground with a quiet thump, and I took what felt like the first clean breath since this had all started. Pithica might not go in for revenge, but I sure as hell did. 
The odd jobs I’d been able to hustle as LA recovered dried up as we hit the second week out from the disaster—people weren’t desperate enough anymore to hire me for necessities, and were still too occupied with rebuilding their lives and routines to worry about trivialities. Arthur had gone back to his own place, leaving me alone with too many thoughts—about Dawna and Pithica, about what she had been able to do to me, about Rio and whatever he hadn’t told me. When I slept it was fitful and at odd hours, and the rest of the time I drank. A lot. 
A week and a half after our final confrontation with Pithica, I got an email from Checker saying he’d been keeping tabs, and as far as he could tell, over seventy percent of Pithica’s revenue sources had moved their money out of the organization’s reach. Dawna and her people would need a long time to rebuild those resources. We had knocked them down but good. 
That seems to be all Becker has to say on the subject. He shrugs noncommittally, as if suggesting it's just another thing for Ray to think about, then turns and makes his way out the door. 
He just needed to be doing something that seemed productive. 
Because he was supposed to be getting ready for a last shipboard tryst with Emma, dinner and the theatre, 
then a run up to the obs platform for a truly breathtaking glimpse of New Holyoke (at least, the flier circulated by the entertainment director said it was breathtaking. Maybe that was really a clever joke and he planned to get a chunk of the passengers up there beneath the naked starfield and puncture the plastisheen dome. That would be literally breathtaking, wouldn't it? Vacuum humor. It was how you knew you'd been shipboard for too long.) 
Ray is just being morbid. Emma called him late in the morning to cancel the date, sounding distinctly unhappy, almost tearful. The last night before hard deceleration on an interstellar run is inevitably a raucous event, Frederick had said. People became wild, drunken, frenzied— a final gust of hedonism before being strapped to impact couches, numbed by vid streams, waiting for the docking clamps and the mass exodus to the shuttles. A crass and demeaning scene, he indicated to her. Unbearably common, definitely something that would raise eyebrows in all the wrong places should a Whiston become involved in such an obscenely medieval bacchanal. She shouldn't be mixed up in such an orgy, he'd said, and forbidden her to leave. 
Miss Dearborn was delighted. "I propose we give Rebecca a good hand-clapping for such a beautiful picture—one that the whole school may well be proud of!" 
The scholars clapped heartily, and Dick Carter, waving his hand, gave a rousing cheer. 
Rebecca's heart leaped for joy, and to her confusion she felt the tears rising in her eyes. She could hardly see the way back to her seat, for in her ignorant lonely little life she had never been singled out for applause, never lauded, nor crowned, as in this wonderful, dazzling moment. 
If "nobleness enkindleth nobleness," so does enthusiasm beget enthusiasm, and so do wit and talent enkindle wit and talent. Alice Robinson proposed that the school should sing Three Cheers for the Red, White, and Blue! and when they came to the chorus, all point to Rebecca's flag. Dick Carter suggested that Living Perkins and Rebecca Randall should sign their names to their pictures, so that the visitors would know who drew them. Huldah Meserve asked permission to cover the largest holes in the plastered walls with boughs and fill the water pail with wild flowers. Rebecca's mood was above and beyond all practical details. She sat silent, her heart so full of grateful joy that she could hardly remember the words of her dialogue. At recess she bore herself modestly, notwithstanding her great triumph, while in the general atmosphere of good will the Smellie-Randall hatchet was buried and Minnie gathered maple boughs and covered the ugly stove with them, under Rebecca's direction. 
He gestured around. The offices were sumptuous, designed to impress the functionaries of the fortunes in the vats. A trick of light and scent and wind made you feel as though you were in an ancient forest glade as soon as you came through the door, though no forest was in evidence. The reception desktop was a sheet of pitted tombstone granite, the unreadable smooth epitaph peeking around the edges of the old fashioned typewriter that had been cunningly reworked to serve as a slightly-less-old-fashioned keyboard. The receptionist -- presently ignoring them with professional verisimilitude -- conveyed beauty, intelligence, and motherly concern, all by means of dress, bearing and makeup. Ate employed a small team of stylists that worked on all public-facing employees; Leon had endured a just-so rumpling of his sandy hair and some carefully applied fraying at the cuffs and elbows of his jacket that morning. 
"So no, Leon, buddy, I am not taking you down to meet my vat-person. But I will get you started on a path that may take you there, some day, if you're very good and prove yourself out here. Once you've paid your dues." 
Mom hung up on the Yorkshireman when we got in. 
"Hello, Marcus," she said, giving me a kiss on the cheek. "And who is this?" 
"Mom, meet Ange. Ange, this is my Mom, Lillian." Mom stood up and gave Ange a hug. 
"It's very good to meet you, darling," she said, looking her over from top to bottom. Ange looked pretty acceptable, I think. She dressed well, and low-key, and you could tell how smart she was just by looking at her. 
"A pleasure to meet you, Mrs Yallow," she said. She sounded very confident and self-assured. Much better than I had when I'd met her mom. 
"It's Lillian, love," she said. She was taking in every detail. "Are you staying for dinner?" 
"I'd love that," she said. 
"Do you eat meat?" Mom's pretty acclimated to living in California. 
"I eat anything that doesn't eat me first," she said. 
"She's a hot-sauce junkie," I said. "You could serve her old tires and she'd eat 'em if she could smother them in salsa." 
Ange socked me gently in the shoulder. 
"I was going to order Thai," Mom said. "I'll add a couple of their five-chili dishes to the order." 
"You are a comforting little person, Rebecca," said Adam, rising from his chair. 
As Rebecca rose, the tears still trembling on her lashes, he looked at her suddenly as with new vision. 
"Good-by!" he said, taking her slim brown hands in his, adding, as if he saw her for the first time, "Why, little Rose-Red-Snow-White is making way for a new girl! Burning the midnight oil and doing four years' work in three is supposed to dull the eye and blanch the cheek, yet Rebecca's eyes are bright and she has a rosy color! Her long braids are looped one on the other so that they make a black letter U behind, and they are tied with grand bows at the top! She is so tall that she reaches almost to my shoulder. This will never do in the world! How will Mr. Aladdin get on without his comforting little friend! He doesn't like grown-up young ladies in long trains and wonderful fine clothes; they frighten and bore him!" 
"Oh, Mr. Aladdin!" cried Rebecca eagerly, taking his jest quite seriously; "I am not fifteen yet, and it will be three years before I'm a young lady; please don't give me up until you have to!" 
I unlocked the front door for them. They hesitated for a moment, 
probably disappointed they didn’t get to use their battering ram, 
before one of them tackled me and the rest raced up the stairs to clear the house of dangerous terrorists. 
Good thing I had that phone number written on my arm. I was going to need it. 
The last thing I saw was a glimpse of Marita standing on the porch, holding a howling, kicking baby, paying no attention to the cop who was asking her questions. Just staring at me with a big “what do I do now?” look on her face as the cruiser I was in sped away. 
I wasn’t under arrest, it turned out. Whatever I had heard in the confusion must have been a mistake, or so they claimed. 
The handcuffs, too. Crossed signals. Mistakes...  listened to their excuses with one eyebrow raised, perfectly polite and absolutely clear that she didn’t believe a word of it Later, I found out that Nikko had live- tweeted the bust, grabbing and posting shots from the video feed as events unfolded, then uploading short snippets from the sting, 
Trish squirmed and felt her face grow hot. Neither of them really believed in marriage. Whenever anyone brought the subject up around Damian, he'd grimace and say, "Are you kidding? It'd make my mother far too happy -- she'd keel over from joy." 
There was some kind of disturbance down the beach, one that had been growing steadily over the past several minutes, and now the Relatives were all turning their attention that way, to a couple of small boys in miniature suits who were ruining the shine on their shoes running in the sand like lunatics. 
Something in the way they were running, the distant expressions she couldn't quite make out on their faces. It made her think back to high-school, to working as a beach lifeguard on Lake Michigan in the summers, and before she knew what she was doing, she'd kicked off her shoes and was running for the shore, her legs flashing immodestly through the vents in her apron-trousers. 
She was still yards away from the hissing surf when she began to assess the situation. There was the small boy, bobbing in the ocean, where the undertow had spit him up after sucking him under. There was the swimmer, unconscious on the beach, face down. Couldn't tell if his chest was moving, but the small boy was in a suit, not swim-trunks like the swimmer, and that meant that he was part of Damian's Family, which she had begun (on the eighth date, no less!) to think of as her own, and so she had him as her primary target before she reached the sea. 
because he is the scion of such a great and noble house, but he can't care for mother and the charitable trust and the businesses and everything else, even with Amah-" She stops herself abruptly. "It's boring, Ray. A long and boring story." 
Ray nods. He understands something about exigencies, long and boring, but which remain exigencies nonetheless. 
"I'm sorry," he says. 
"Don't worry. I'm certain Frederick has already provided the necessary tutors to complete my education. He can't very well let his little sister be practically a cultural illiterate ! That would be so mundane, so crass. " 
Ray had actually been thinking about the ailing family matriarch, but he thinks it's probably best not to clarify the point. Instead, he says, "Well, maybe getting home won't be so bad. I'm sure there have been some exciting changes in your absence. Outlier colonies tend to ebb and flow rapidly." 
"You've been to New Holyoke?" 
"No, but I've seen other colonies." 
Emma sits up sharply, her features instantly animated. "Then you should let me show you about when we arrive, yes? At least Blackheath Grange. We could discover it together." 
A phone. When had Arthur gotten a phone? I hadn’t seen him pull one from any of the guards... 
He held it out to Rio. “She wants to talk to you.” 
Rio’s face was unreadable. “Ah,” he said. “I see.” 
“I’m sorry,” Arthur whispered to me. The hand holding the phone was shaking. “So sorry.” 
Horror shorted out my brain. “No,” I said. “ No.” 
“Cas—” tried Rio. 
“You’ve been working for them this whole time?” I cried. 
“No—it ain’t like that—” 
“You betrayed us!” My M4 swung to point at Arthur. “You—!” 
Rio placed a cautious hand on my weapon, shifting it off line. “Cas, it isn’t his fault. Dawna Polk did talk to you, didn’t she?” he said to Arthur. 
“I’m sorry,” he said again, wretchedly. “I’m sorry, Russell.” 
I had to restrain myself from hitting him. 
“Give me the phone,” said Rio. He hit a button and held the phone out in front of us, raising his voice slightly. “Go ahead.” 
I recognized Dawna Polk’s mellifluous voice on the speaker immediately. “I must say I’m impressed.” 
Rio was silent. 
We settled ourselves in the car for the next leg of the trip. I picked up the dirty sock and the boot and put them inside, and helped Wheeze scoot back so that he could rest against the door on the other side. Nikko rolled his coat into a pillow for his back, 
and Bree got a blanket she kept in the trunk for winter emer- gencies. Then I sat across from Wheeze with his feet in my lap because Bree said his bad ankle should be elevated. 
As Bree and Nikko stood beside the car, debating who was going to take the driver’s seat, Wheeze mumbled, “Who are these guys?” 
“Friends. They’re cool.” 
“You’re not going to take me to the ER, are you? Because — ” 
“The police would find out. I lined up a place in Wisconsin for you. There’s a person there who can take care of your ankle. It’s a friend of a friend. It should be safe. Hey, at least your buddy came through. He wanted me to be sure to tell you you’re even now.” 
Wheeze laughed weakly. “No shit? He did good.” 
It looked as if Bree won the argument and took the wheel. 
Of course, it meant more work for us. Goddamn Arthur. 
“I’m on Zhang,” continued Arthur. “We’ll try to spin this so it points to the Lancer—that would make sense. Russell, I’m gonna need Checker for a few hours to find out what footprints the professors might’ve left, but after that, you and he get on finding Martinez. For now, we ain’t telling the Feds a lick about her involvement. Got it?” 
The last thing I wanted to do right now was work with Checker. I supposed it couldn’t be helped, not unless I turned my back on the whole thing entirely, and as tempting as that sounded... 
God damn Arthur. 
“Arthur,” said Halliday. He looked down at her, and she nodded to him, a deliberate, meaningful gesture. 
He nodded back. “We’ll get to the bottom of this, Sonya. Promise.” 
Arthur went inside to give the DHS agents his story, presumably with a big song-and-dance about how he’d wanted to break it to Halliday gently first that her friend Zhang was a thief. I sat out on the deck and waited. They’d probably want to interview me, too, and I planned to say I didn’t know a damn thing. 
The “poor young man” came into the room, with that very nice smile of his. 
“Good morning!” he said. “I say, I’m sorry I didn’t wait for you a bit longer, Miss Moran.” 
“I’m glad you didn’t,” said Lexy. “I’d have felt awfully guilty.” 
“I went out to telephone,” he explained. “Thought I’d tell Muriel I was here, you know; but they have no telephone. Dashed odd, isn’t it, for a doctor not to have a telephone in the house?” 
“I don’t think he’s a real doctor—a physician, I mean,” said Lexy. She glanced around and saw that Mrs. Royce had gone. Springing up, she crossed the room to Captain Grey. “Has Mrs. Royce—has any one said anything to you?” she asked, almost in a whisper. 
“No!” answered the young man, startled. “Why? What’s up?” 
“Mrs. Royce says—I suppose I really ought to tell you.” 
“No doubt about it!” 
“Mrs. Royce says Dr. Quelton is crazy!” 
Captain Grey took the news very coolly. Lexy observed that he suppressed a smile. 
“Oh, that!” he said. “But you know, Miss Moran, in these little villages any one who’s at all out of the ordinary is called crazy. I’ve noticed it before. I can soon find out for myself, though, can’t I? I thought, if you didn’t want me this morning, I’d go over there—pay a call, you know. I understand it’s three miles from here, so I shouldn’t be very long. I’d come back here for lunch.” 
"Good. You will never speak of what happened here to anyone, ever. This is a matter of national security. Do you know that the death penalty still holds for treason in time of war?" 
"Yes," I mumbled. 
"Good boy," she purred. "We have some papers here for you to sign." She pushed the stack of papers across the table to me. Little post-its with SIGN HERE printed on them had been stuck throughout them. A guard undid my cuffs. 
I paged through the papers and my eyes watered and my head swam. I couldn't make sense of them. I tried to decipher the legalese. It seemed that I was signing a declaration that I had been voluntarily held and submitted to voluntary questioning, of my own free will. 
"What happens if I don't sign this?" I said. 
She snatched the papers back and made that flicking gesture again. The guards jerked me to my feet. 
"Wait!" I cried. "Please! I'll sign them!" They dragged me to the door. All I could see was that door, all I could think of was it closing behind me. 
I lost it. I wept. I begged to be allowed to sign the papers. To be so close to freedom and have it snatched away, it made me ready to do anything. I can't count the number of times I've heard someone say, "Oh, I'd rather die than do something-or-other" -- I've said it myself now and again. But that was the first time I understood what it really meant. I would have rather died than go back to my cell. 
“Then you’re not going to do anything?” asked Lexy. 
“My dear Miss Moran, what in the world can I do?” returned Captain Grey, with a sort of despair. 
They were sitting together on the veranda in the warm morning sunshine. They had had breakfast in the dining room, with the doctor—an excellent breakfast. The doctor had been at his best—courteous, affable, very attentive to his guests. Everything in his manner tended to reassure the young soldier. 
Everything in the world seemed to tend in that direction, Lexy thought. A Sunday tranquillity lay over the country. Church bells were ringing somewhere in the far distance. The windows of the library stood open, and the parlor maid was visible in there, flitting about with broom and duster. Everything was peaceful and ordinary, and Captain Grey had come out on the veranda and attempted to begin a peaceful and ordinary conversation. 
But Lexy had no intention of allowing him to enjoy such a thing. She felt pretty sure that her time in this house would not be long. She had caused Dr. Quelton an anxiety that he could not conceal. She had got in his way. She could not tell whether he had discovered her trick yet, but the effects were manifest; and if he didn’t know now, he would very soon, and then— Captain Grey must carry on when she was gone. 
Ray frowns, serious. "Is it always this hard? To catch them, I mean." 
It's a question that's been nagging him for days. He wonders if he's been missing something, if he's been too  focused on Emma and whatever it is between them and made the murder just a footnote in his personal history. How did we meet? Oh, I was under deep cover trying to interdict a ring of political insurgents and managed to get tied up in a murder investigation. I busted her brother, whacked his psycho political cronies. 
One thing led to another, and here we are? Funny how life works, huh? 
"Catching them is usually the easy part," Becker says. "It's trying to understand what they thought was so important that it was worth taking someone else's life that's hard. But I guess you know something about that, 
don't you? How a person rationalizes killing." 
Ray looks at him, blinking, uncertain about what he might mean. He has the feeling he's supposed to say something like Wow, I never thought about it that way before, but it seems like too much effort. He simply lets it pass. 
“I’m Jack,” the skinny one said. “That’s Marsh. We hear you know explosives. Is that right?” 
Danny gave him a glare, trying to look tough. He mostly looked suspicious and hungover. “So?” 
“So we have resources, but we need someone with your skills.” 
“Show them your hand,” I said. “It got burned when he threw a tear gas canister back at the cops.” 
“When was that?” Jack asked. 
“A while ago.” Danny still had his tough face on, but he was fidgeting with his lighter, flicking at it with a thumb. 
“Was this Baltimore? We were there.” 
“Hashtag black lives matter,” the big guy said, looking at me, 
making it clear they didn’t matter to him. I wanted to punch him in the nose, but something about the way he looked...  little smile made me realize he was trying to rile me up, so I didn’t. 
“What do you think, Zen?” Jack asked. “What kind of action makes sense these days?” 
“Action that works.” 
Jack nodded as if I’d said something profound and powerful. 
“Absolutely. You can send out Tweets or you can attack the source. Capitalism. You notice how everything changes when you set a Pizza Hut on fire? ” 
“You ain’t have to take this job,” Arthur said from somewhere up and to my right. “Forget it. Ain’t no problem.” 
At least, that was what his words said. But his voice was tight and desperate, as if the list of people he thought could help his friend began and ended with me. 
“Fine,” I ground out. “I’ll help.” 
The tension went out of him where he was still touching my arm, and I hated myself. “Sweetheart, I could kiss you,” he said. 
“Don’t push your luck.” 
Still keeping a supporting hand on my elbow, Arthur pulled out his wallet and threw a handful of bills on the bar. “Come on, let me drive you home. I’ll tell you more on the way.” 
“My car is here,” I said. 
His eyes slipped back to my seventeen shot glasses lined up in neat groups on the bar. “Ex-cop here. Humor me.” 
“I hate cops.” 
“Me too.” Something dark flickered in Arthur’s eyes. I’d never found out why he’d left the force, and even I, Queen of Social Disgraces, had eventually clued in I shouldn’t ask about it. 
“Fine,” I said. The room was still whirling a little anyway. 
“He saved our lives, Russell.” 
“But...” But that wasn’t what Rio did. He might rearrange his goals to save more innocent people, sure, but not at the expense of fighting a greater evil. He was the only person in the world with the ability to fight Pithica effectively, and he had just given them a free pass. Forever. 
To save Arthur and me. No—to save me. 
“You up to moving?” said Arthur. “We should probably hoof it before the authorities get here.” 
Right. I attempted an upward direction and didn’t even make it off the ground. Arthur helped me shift so I could lean up against the wall. “I need a minute,” I admitted. 
He settled next to me. “A minute it is. Could use one myself.” 
I took a better look at him and winced guiltily—even in the dim light, the side effects of the recent TKO were obvious. “Sorry about that.” 
“Well, I was threatening to kill you, so I think we’re good.” 
“So they all just left?” I asked. 
“Yeah. Your friend made her dismiss the army, and then he insisted on walking her out—said something about not giving them a chance to bomb the building. He made her stop whatever mojo she’d been doing to you first, though.” He cleared his throat. “You sure you’re okay? What she hit you with?” 
“Enough has happened to you already!” 
“More things are going to happen,” said she. “Lots more!” 
It suddenly occurred to her that the proper moment had come for withdrawing her hands from Mr. Houseman’s firm grasp. Indeed, she thought the proper moment might already have passed, and a warm color came into her cheeks. 
The young man flushed a little himself. 
“I didn’t mean to call you that,” he said; “but Caroline used to write a lot about you, and she always called you ‘Lexy,’ so I got into the way of thinking of you—like that.” 
“I don’t mind,” Lexy conceded. 
There was a moment’s silence. 
“Charles is my name,” he observed. 
Another silence. 
“Queer, isn’t it?” he said seriously. 
“Here we’ve only seen each other once, and yet somehow it seems to me as if I’d known you for years!” 
“Well, the circumstances are rather unusual,” said Lexy. 
“You’re right! But look here—we’ve got to talk about all this. Where were you going?” 
“Back to Mrs. Royce’s.” 
“Let’s go!” he said cheerfully, and picked up the bag as if it were nothing at all. 
"I'm not lonely," he says. 
"You are. You just haven't realized it yet. You're lonely for me. Lonely and hungry." 
If he was lonely-if his loneliness was obvious to someone like Emma, someone he'd just met-what did that mean? What mistakes was he making or essential facts was he missing? How was he not thinking clearly about the tasks at hand? 
"Ray?" 
Emma's voice in his ear, gone from pleasantly libidinous to questioning, bordering on concerned, because he's been screwing around in his own head when he was supposed to be answering her flirtation.  He draws himself back to the surface, to a place where he's in even remote contact with reality. "I've never said anything like that to a woman." 
She purrs at him, delighted. "Never?" 
"I haven't been in the types of places where there are women you'd want to say them to. And I imagine those types of women wouldn't have wanted to hear a G.I. actually say it and mean it, anyway." 
Was that a stupid admission to make? He thinks it might have been. 
Now slow, languid, she says, "All of our fathers tried to be like him, Mr. Whiston. Not Frederick, you understand, but the old man. I never met him, of course, because he passed away before I was born. I was born the same year as Emma. Mr. Whiston cast a huge shadow across the entire planet, but especially Blackheath Grange. My father said he was such an immense man, not in stature, mind you, but in personality. 
He built much of the city, drew it up from his own designs. Not a tavern or a hotel or even a home could be built unless the plans were submitted to him first. He controlled everything. 
"And our fathers depended so much on his goodwill for their jobs, they wanted to emulate him, which meant they wanted their daughters to emulate Emma. They wanted us to be Emma. " 
She digs her pelvis deep into his, and Kilgore has to grip the sheets in his fists and curl his toes until they crackle to keep her from ending it all right there. 
"And their sons to be like Frederick," he groans. 
“Anyhow, I can’t ask her,” thought Lexy. “That’s the worst part of all this— I can’t ask anybody anything without breaking a promise to somebody else; and yet everybody ought to know everything!” 
In miserable perplexity, she went upstairs to Mrs. Enderby’s sitting room. Only one thing was clear in her mind, and that was that she must be freed from her weak-minded promise not to mention Caroline’s absence. 
“And that’s not going to be easy,” she reflected, “when I can’t explain to her. There’ll be a row. Well, I don’t care!” 
She did care, however. She respected Mrs. Enderby, and in her secret heart she was a little afraid of her. She felt very young, very crude and blundering, in the presence of that masterful woman; and she doubted her own wisdom. 
“But what can I do?” she thought. “He said he trusted me. I can’t tell her! No, first I’ll get her to let me off that promise, and I’ll go and tell that young man. Then I’ll make him let me off, and I’ll come and tell her. Golly, how I hate all this fool mystery!” 
“Something like that.” 
I looked down at my hands. I wasn’t going to say it hadn’t occurred to me. “I don’t think it would be worth it to them,” I said. “That level of control. She got what she wanted from us, and—well, even at the end we weren’t under her total control, yeah?” 
“You weren’t,” he said softly. 
“Neither were you,” I pointed out. “You didn’t give us away until we pushed you to it. And at the last minute, you took your gun off line—when it mattered.” 
“Barely.” 
“You knew it would give me the window.” 
He nodded, conceding the point. “Hey, about that. What you can do. It’s pretty special, ain’t it?” 
The question caught me off guard. I tried to keep my face neutral. “What do you mean, what I can do?” 
He chuckled. “I got eyes, Russell.” 
“I’m good at math,” I said. “That’s all.” 
He squinted at me, still smiling slightly. “You gotta tell me how that works sometime.” 
“Sometime,” I agreed vaguely. 
The moment of levity faded, and Arthur looked down again. “We really can’t be sure, can we?” he said after a moment. “Could be some small way. A thousand little bits she might’ve changed. Maybe we say she had a miss with us at the end there, but still...we don’t know what else she might’ve done.” 
“I feel bad that I was ever nice to him, you know? Because looking back, there were things that didn’t seem right. I should have known.” 
“I feel bad, too. When Emily told me, I just avoided Simon after that. I didn’t tell anybody or do anything to stop him. Which is dumb, because it felt like I was protecting Emily, but really it just meant he got away with it while she got to feel ashamed and lonely. But then hearing about that other girl - she’s really young and she’s so completely messed up about it. And scared that her parents will find out, like it was her fault.” 
“Man.” Nikko looked pained, then he sat up straight and looked happy again, rubbing his hands together. “Okay, let’s mess him up. How do we do this?” 
“First, I have to do some research. Like, is there a law against recording people secretly? What about lying to federal officers?” 
“Who says I’d be lying? Let’s say I get talking to Simon about how screwed up everything is and he starts saying violence is nec- essary, because he likes to brag about doing things he would never actually do. And we talk, and he starts to get more detailed, and I get the feeling he really does want to blow something up. 
Her trunk had not yet arrived. Indeed, she had only sent to Mrs. Enderby’s for it that morning, but she was able to make herself presentable with what she had in her bag, and excitement gave her an added charm. She was in high spirits, gay and sparkling, so pretty and so lively that Captain Grey was quite dazzled. 
He had engaged the one and only taxi. 
After they were settled in it, and on their way along the muddy road, he said: “I say, Miss Moran, are there many American girls like you?” 
“No!” replied Lexy calmly. “I’m unique.” 
“I can believe that!” he said. “I’ve never seen any one like you. I was telling Muriel how much I hope that you and she will hit it off. It would be a wonderful thing for her to have a friend like you in this place.” 
Something in his tone made Lexy turn serious. He was speaking as if she was simply a nice girl he had happened to meet, as if she had nothing to do but go out to tea and make agreeable friendships. 
“Yes,” she said, “but I don’t know how long I’ll be here. I certainly haven’t accomplished much so far.” 
“The Distributed Republic of Cyberspace weathered this storm basically unscathed. We are the custodians of a deathless, monstrous, wonderful machine, one with the potential to rebuild a better world. 
“I have nothing to live for but that.” 
There were tears in Van’s eyes. He wasn’t the only one. They didn’t applaud him, but they did one better. They maintained respectful, total silence for seconds that stretched to a minute. 
“How do we do it?” Popovich said, without a trace of sarcasm. 
The newsgroups were filling up fast. They’d announced them in news.admin.net-abuse.email, where all the spamfighters hung out, and where there was a tight culture of camaraderie in the face of full-out attack. 
The new group was alt.november5-disaster.recovery, with.recovery.governance,.recovery.finance,.recovery.logistics and.recovery.defense hanging off of it. Bless the wooly alt. hierarchy and all those who sail in her. 
The sysadmins came out of the woodwork. The Googleplex was online, with the stalwart Queen Kong bossing a gang of rollerbladed grunts who wheeled through the gigantic data-center swapping out dead boxen and hitting reboot switches. The Internet Archive was offline in the Presidio, but...  they’d redirected the DNS so that you’d hardly know the difference. Amazon was down. Paypal was up. Blogger, Typepad and Livejournal were all up, and filling with millions of posts from scared survivors huddling together for electronic warmth. 
She nodded slowly. “Before the war,” she said. 
“You know how the magician always has a supply of lovely assistants on hand?” 
She nodded again. They’d worn flattering, tight-fitting calf-high trousers, cutaway coats, tummy-revealing crop-tops, and feathered confections for hats. 
“Everyone who does magic has an assistant or two. I’m the wizard and I do the best magic of all, and so I have need of more assistants than most. I have an army of assistants, and they help me out and I help them out.” 
“I’m leaving in five days,” she said. 
“The kind of favor I had in mind from you was the kind of favor that you could perform the day after tomorrow.” 
“And you’d take care of my family?” 
“I would do that,” he said. “I always take care of my assistants’ families. Do we have an agreement?” 
She stuck her hand out and they shook. 
“Eat your dumplings,” he said. “And then we’ll get you some things to take home to your family.” 
Two days after the wizard agreed to take care of Valentine’s family, the fever had become her constant companion, so omnipresent that it she hardly noticed it, though it made her walk like an old woman and she sometimes had trouble focusing her eyes. 
"And if you can't handle it?" 
"Then I hope you've got Jack Holcomb on speed dial and that he's got a decent backup plan." 
"How did this happen, Marlowe? He failed. He tried and he failed. We agreed on that." 
"I don't know. Maybe he tried again. Maybe we didn't understand nearly as well as we believed we did. There aren't any easy answers." 
The Chief looks as if he's going to be ill. "I'll shake the captain out of bed." 
"Good idea." 
Every once in a while, they come across a fluorescent pool, the light guttering, coloring their skin a haunted blue tint as though they were already corpses and just hadn't realized it yet. While the light lasted, they'd break out into a dead run, dashing as far as it carried them and a short way beyond. Certifiably insane was what it was. 
But that's also all it is— just insane. He keeps waiting for the terror to kick in, for his hands to start shaking and the numbing paralysis of fear to lock his joints and drive him into hyperventilation. For Kilgore and Rodriguez, it's just another live fire exercise or another combat mission in which they're not certain about the armament level of their opponent. For all they know, all they've been told, their opponent is still just a fantasy, 
I groaned. “Tresting’s going in, isn’t he.” 
“That would be a yes.” 
“He thinks they’re waiting for him, and he’s going in anyway.” 
“Hence the needing backup.” 
“Okay. When and where?” 
There was a short beat of silence, as if Checker had expected a different response, but he recovered quickly. “I’m texting you the details now, including the location and the tracker frequency. Satellite imagery was no help, unfortunately; it only shows some buildings in the middle of the desert. As for when...he’s going in tonight.” 
I looked up at the stars. “Uh, it’s night already.” 
“Yeah.” 
“So, I’m in kind of a hurry here, huh.” 
“He left a few hours ago,” said Checker. “I tried to stop him.” 
His words had become heavy with worry. It made me feel strangely isolated—no one gave a damn if I decided to make a suicide run. I wouldn’t even be missed; I’d disappear into the fabric of the Los Angeles underground as if I’d never existed. 
“I’d better get going, then,” I said, starting to walk faster. “Anything else I should know? Is anyone else with him?” 
“Not really. He’s eight years older than me.” 
“If you’re not close, why are you doing all this?” 
“Because ... I don’t know. He’s pretty annoying, but he doesn’t deserve to be in jail. None of them do.” 
He nodded, and kept on nodding, as if his neck had a loose spring. His eyes drooped shut and for a moment I thought he was asleep. “Hey, sorry I made fun of your name.” 
“I’m used to it.” 
“Me too. First two minutes at preschool and I was Zeke the Freak. Man, I hated school. Do you, like . . .” He got distracted, lis- tening to something Ian was telling Geoff. “Do you still have to go to school?” 
“Yeah, but it’s online. It could be worse.” 
“Sorry if I acted kind of . . . I’m still trying to match you up with Shad, you know? I had this different picture in my head. Not a girl.” He pressed his lips together and tried to hold it in for a minute, little snorts leaking out. “Named Zenobia.” He was howl- ing with laughter again as the party started to break up. 
Jason and Tyler stayed behind to take apart the traveling Fara- day cage and erase all signs of our presence. Outside, the freezing rain had turned into snow. Ian said I couldn’t ride my bike in such awful weather. For some reason, I didn’t mind him fussing at me, 
"It's always 'yes' with you, and 'yes' with Jane," groaned Miranda, trying to move her stiffened body; "but all the time I lay here knowin' there's things done the way I don't like 'em." 
There was a long pause, during which Rebecca sat down by the bedside and timidly touched her aunt's hand, her heart swelling with tender pity at the gaunt face and closed eyes. 
"I was dreadful ashamed to have you graduate in cheesecloth, Rebecca, but I couldn't help it no-how. You'll hear the reason some time, and know I tried to make it up to ye. I'm afraid you was a laughin'-stock!" 
"No," Rebecca answered. "Ever so many people said our dresses were the very prettiest; they looked like soft lace. You're not to be anxious about anything. Here I am all grown up and graduated,—number three in a class of twenty-two, aunt Miranda,—and good positions offered me already. Look at me, big and strong and young, all ready to go into the world and show what you and aunt Jane have done for me. If you want me near, I'll take the Edgewood school, so that I can be here nights and Sundays to help; and if you get better, then I'll go to Augusta,—for that's a hundred dollars more, with music lessons and other things beside." 
There was a moment’s silence. 
“Charles is my name,” he observed. 
Another silence. 
“Queer, isn’t it?” he said seriously. 
“Here we’ve only seen each other once, and yet somehow it seems to me as if I’d known you for years!” 
“Well, the circumstances are rather unusual,” said Lexy. 
“You’re right! But look here—we’ve got to talk about all this. Where were you going?” 
“Back to Mrs. Royce’s.” 
“Let’s go!” he said cheerfully, and picked up the bag as if it were nothing at all. 
“But where were you going?” asked Lexy. 
“To find you. You see, we ran into some awfully bad weather, and the engines broke down, and we came back for repairs; so I got your letters. I explained to the old man that I’d have to have leave, for some very important business, and off I came to Wyngate. Your Mrs. Royce told me you’d gone out to the Queltons’. I didn’t like that. Why did you go there, after what had happened?” 
“I’ll tell you all about that later,” said Lexy; “but now you’ve got to tell me things. How did you ever meet Caroline? How in the world did she manage to write to you?” 
"So he told you." 
"No," she said. "He told me to go to hell. Then I told him something about me. Something I'd never told anyone else." 
"What?" 
She looked at me. Looked around. Looked back at me. "OK. I won't swear you to secrecy because what's the point? Either I can trust you or I can't. 
"Last year, I --" she broke off. "Last year, I stole the standardized tests and published them on the net. It was just a lark. I happened to be walking past the principal's office and I saw them in his safe, and the door was hanging open. I ducked into his office -- there were six sets of copies and I just put one into my bag and took off again. When I got home, I scanned them all and put them up on a Pirate Party server in Denmark." 
"That was you ?" I said. 
She blushed. "Um. Yeah." 
"Holy crap!" I said. It had been huge news. The Board of Education said that its No Child Left Behind tests had cost tens of millions of dollars to produce and that they'd have to spend it all over again now that they'd had the leak. They called it "edu-terrorism." The news had speculated endlessly about the political motivations of the leaker, wondering if it was a teacher's protest, or a student, or a thief, or a disgruntled government contractor. 
Cable guides him through the gauntlet, wending toward the back corner. They encounter Kilgore and Rodriguez tossing a football in low, tight spirals down the length of the aisle. Kilgore has his back to them, so Rodriguez sees them first. He executes a sharp stand to attention, just in time to receive the point of the football from Kilgore's last throw in the middle of his gut. He doesn't flinch, which Ray finds amusing more than anything else. 
Kilgore barks, "Good hands, assclown." 
"Officer on the deck," Rodriguez answers, with only the slightest hint of strain in his voice. 
Cable turns partly toward Ray and rolls his eyes. "They're on their best behavior at the moment. It's all downhill from here. " 
By this time, Kilgore has dragged himself to attention. He snaps off a regulation salute for the captain, and shouts, "Begging the Deck Officer's pardon, sir, but you are unfairly characterizing the efficiency and conduct of this pair of Marines. Respectfully request that you do not screw up this assignment on our behalf, as we two squared away Marines are more than capable of managing same. " 
"Minnie Smellie, if ever—I—catch—you—singing—that—to the Simpsons again—do you know what I'll do?" asked Rebecca in a tone of concentrated rage. 
"I don't know and I don't care," said Minnie jauntily, though her looks belied her. 
"I'll take that piece of coral away from you, and I THINK I shall slap you besides!" 
"You wouldn't darst," retorted Minnie. "If you do, I'll tell my mother and the teacher, so there!" 
"I don't care if you tell your mother, my mother, and all your relations, and the president," said Rebecca, gaining courage as the noble words fell from her lips. "I don't care if you tell the town, the whole of York county, the state of Maine and—and the nation!" she finished grandiloquently. "Now you run home and remember what I say. If you do it again, and especially if you say 'Jail Birds,' if I think it's right and my duty, I shall punish you somehow." 
The next morning at recess Rebecca observed Minnie telling the tale with variations to Huldah Meserve. "She THREATENED me," whispered Minnie, "but I never believe a word she says." 
"It's the room," she said. "The dimensions, the color. Mostly the semiotics of a security scan are either you are a germ on a slide or you are not worth trifling with, but if we must, we must. We went for something a little... sweeter." And it was, a sweet little room, like the private study of a single mom who's stolen a corner in which to work on her secret novel. 
Beyond the room -- a wonderful place. 
"It's like a college campus," he said. 
"Oh, I think we use a better class of materials than most colleges," Ria said, airily, but he could tell he'd pleased her. "But yes, there's about 15,000 of us here. A little city. Nice cafes, gyms, cinemas. A couple artists in residence, a nice little Waldorf school..." The pathways were tidy and wended their way through buildings ranging from cottages to large, institutional buildings, but all with the feel of endowed research institutes rather than finance towers. The people were young and old, casually dressed, walking in pairs and groups, mostly, deep in conversation. 
"It was because I wouldn't unlock my phone for them, that first night. That's why they singled me out." I couldn't believe it, but there was no other explanation. It had been sheer vindictiveness. My mind reeled at the thought. They had done all that as a mere punishment for defying their authority. 
I had been scared. Now I was angry. "Those bastards," I said, softly. "They did it to get back at me for mouthing off." 
Jolu swore and then Vanessa cut loose in Korean, something she only did when she was really, really angry. 
"I'm going to get them," I whispered, staring at my soda. "I'm going to get them." 
Jolu shook his head. "You can't, you know. You can't fight back against that." 
None of us much wanted to talk about revenge then. Instead, we talked about what we would do next. We had to go home. Our phones' batteries were dead and it had been years since this neighborhood had any payphones. We just needed to go home. I even thought about taking a taxi, but there wasn't enough money between us to make that possible. 
She hesitated over that, but only for a moment. “You’ll find a spare key under a stone turtle to the right of the front steps. Prob- ably covered in snow, but it’s there. I’ll tell my neighbors that I’m expecting a guest.” 
“Thanks.” 
I disconnected before she could ask any awkward questions. 
I hiked to Wilson Library on automatic pilot. It wasn’t until I found a carrel near an electrical outlet hidden away in the stacks that I began to think about what I needed to do. I switched my phone on and logged into the website that was tracking Simon’s movements. Then I opened my laptop to check his location with Google Street Views. 
I switched back and forth, using Tor to avoid leaving a trail of my own. He had stopped at a corner store, then zigzagged through the university buildings on the West Bank. I watched the green dot cross the footbridge to the East Bank, then into the student union, where it stopped for a while. Doing a little business with students, probably, selling some weed. 
"She's the best company I ever see in all my life," said Mrs. Cobb to her husband that evening. "We ain't had a dull minute this day. She's well-mannered, too; she didn't ask for anything, and was thankful for whatever she got. Did you watch her face when we went into that tent where they was actin' out Uncle Tom's Cabin? And did you take notice of the way she told us about the book when we sat down to have our ice cream? I tell you Harriet Beecher Stowe herself couldn't 'a' done it better justice." 
"I took it all in," responded Mr. Cobb, who was pleased that "mother" agreed with him about Rebecca. "I ain't sure but she's goin' to turn out somethin' remarkable,—a singer, or a writer, or a lady doctor like that Miss Parks up to Cornish." 
"Lady doctors are always home'paths, ain't they?" asked Mrs. Cobb, who, it is needless to say, was distinctly of the old school in medicine. 
"Land, no, mother; there ain't no home'path 'bout Miss Parks—she drives all over the country." 
"I can't see Rebecca as a lady doctor, somehow," mused Mrs. Cobb. "Her gift o' gab is what's goin' to be the makin' of her; mebbe she'll lecture, or recite pieces, like that Portland elocutionist that come out here to the harvest supper." 
“Because he uses his position in activist circles to assault women.” 
Zeke asked, “You have actual proof of this?” 
A million words jammed together in my mouth that I couldn’t get out, like when you hit too many keys on an old-fashioned typewriter and they get stuck together. Proof? Like, women are supposed to take pictures when they’re being attacked or it didn’t happen? I wanted to punch that big nose of his. 
“She knows,” Sarahh said. And that was that. Zeke looked like he wanted to keep arguing about it, but then he looked at me and gave a small shrug. Okay. He’d take my word for it. Barely. 
My phone gave a loud blurp. 
<nikko> done <Zen> how' d it go? 
Seconds ticked by before another message gurgled in. 
<nikko> we have a problem “So?” I asked him when he arrived at the hotel suite. “What happened?” 
“It started out fine,” he said, “but then . . .” His voice trailed away as he caught sight of Sarah. “Oh, hi.” 
“You’re Nikko,” she said, sweeping over to him with a hand outstretched. “I hear you’re a talented actor.” 
Her wrists were getting tired, and her chest heaved and her hated podge wobbled as she worked the keypad. 
It was a noob avatar, just like the others, but not just like it after all, for it moved with purpose, backing away from her sword. And it spoke English. 
› There are many here to kill—take me last at least. I need to talk to you. 
she typed. Meeting players who moved well and spoke English was hardly unusual in gamespace, but here in the cleanup phase, it felt out of place. It felt wrong . 
› My name is Raymond, and I live in Tijuana. I am a labour organizer in the factories here. What is your name? 
It was a name she liked to use in-game: Kali, Destroyer of Worlds, like the Hindu goddess. 
She was halfway through the room, mowing down the noobs in twos and threes. She was hungry and bored and this Raymond was weirding her out. 
› Do you know who these people are that you’re killing? 
She didn’t answer, but she had an idea. She killed four more and shook out her wrists. 
› They’re working for less than a dollar a day. The shirts they make are traded for gold and the gold is sold on eBay. Once their avatars have leveled up, they too are sold off on eBay. They’re mostly young girls supporting their families. They’re the lucky ones: the unlucky ones work as prostitutes. 
"Humph! Subroutines!" 
"Adele, He's a walking coma. He's been switched off for so long, all you're talking to is a goddamn chip , he's not a goddamn person anymore. None of them are. My goddamn Grampa 's spent three-quarters of his goddamn life away . He's either an angry old bastard, or he's a goddamn zombie . You know that , right?" 
"Sean, you're very upset," Adele said. "Why don't you have a nice lie-down, and we'll talk in the morning. I can't wait to meet your father!" 
Sean stalked off to his room and tried to record some field notes while flipping around in the weird, poky corners of the motel's cable system, Japanese game-shows and Hindu religious epics. He smoked half a cigarette, drank half a beer, tried to masturbate, and finally, slept. 
Adele rang his room-phone at eight. "Rise and shine, sunshine!" she said. "Your father will be at the airport in an hour!" 
Sean dressed, but didn't bother shaving or brushing his teeth. He staggered out to his rental and gave Adele a sheepish grin. Acid churned in his gut. 
“You two eat like pigs.” 
They both whirled at the sound of the woman’s voice. She was holding a fire-axe that was nearly as big as she was. She wore a lab-coat and comfortable shoes. 
“You take what you need and go, OK? No sense in there being any trouble.” Her chin was pointy and her eyes were sharp. She looked to be in her forties. She looked nothing like Kelly, which was good, because Felix felt like running and giving her a hug as it was. Another person alive! 
“Are you a doctor?” Felix said. She was wearing scrubs under the coat, he saw. 
“You going to go?” She brandished the axe. 
Felix held his hands up. “Seriously, are you a doctor? A pharmacist?” 
“I used to be a RN, ten years ago. I’m mostly a Web-designer.” 
“You’re shitting me,” Felix said. 
“Haven’t you ever met a girl who knew about computers?” 
“Actually, a friend of mine who runs Google’s data-center is a girl. A woman, I mean.” 
“You’re shitting me,” she said. “A woman ran Google’s data-center?” 
“Runs,” Felix said. “It’s still online.” 
“You’re not in the system anywhere yet, right? Then I’m telling you, I’ve got this! Just don’t say anything to anyone while they’re questioning you. Not a word, okay?” 
“I am not getting myself arrested!” 
“I promise you, I will get you un-arrested! Now go!” 
“And let the authorities get a record of me?” 
“I’ll un-record you,” he insisted. 
“Not a chance!” 
“For the love of God, you are unbelievable!” he exclaimed. “Do you have any idea what kind of a situation you’re in? I’m tracking it in real time here, and I didn’t know LA had that many police resources. Either Tokyo called about an enormous lizard, or they think you’re a domestic terrorist who—” 
“Can’t you make them go away?” I demanded. 
“Sure, I’ll wave my magic wand and, oh, wait, no, we don’t live in a mystical fairyland. But fortunately for your pwned self, we do live in a mystical bureaucracy land, and I’m telling you, go surrender. I swear to you, I have it covered.” 
“Thanks but no thanks,” I said. “I’ll find another way.” 
“Sending me to rehab, are you?” 
He snorted. “Almost tempted. We’ll time how long it takes you to break out.” 
“You don’t have a drug problem,” said Checker. 
“Well, no, you do—” corrected Arthur. 
“Not a serious one,” grumped Checker. 
Arthur shot him a look. “Ex-cop here, remember? But I’m fair sure it ain’t nothing you’ll accept help with, and I ain’t think you’re no danger to yourself. Normally. Am I right?” 
I sighed. I wanted them to go away. The conversation was too loud, beating in time with the pounding in my skull. “So why are you here, then?” I couldn’t speak quite as forcefully as I wanted to. My stomach was still determined to revolt, and I had to keep it calm. 
“Because you’ve lost large chunks of your memory,” said Checker, “And we want to help you look into it.” 
My stomach gave an extra savage twist, and I quickly tried to swallow against it. I won the battle, barely. “I said no.” 
“We think something might be making you say that,” said Arthur, and I could tell they had rehearsed this. “Can you give us a good reason why not?” 
> So they decided we must really be guilty. They questioned us every day. You've been through their questioning, I know. Imagine it for months. Darryl and I ended up cell-mates. We knew we were bugged, so we only talked about inconsequentialities. But at night, when we were in our cots, we would softly tap out messages to each other in Morse code (I knew my HAM radio days would come in useful sometime). 
> At first, their questions to us were just the same crap as ever, who did it, how'd they do it. But after a little while, they switched to asking us about the Xnet. Of course, we'd never heard of it. That didn't stop them asking. 
> Darryl told me that they brought him arphid cloners, Xboxes, all kinds of technology and demanded that he tell them who used them, where they learned to mod them. Darryl told me about your games and the things you learned. 
> Especially: The DHS asked us about our friends. Who did we know? What were they like? Did they have political feelings? Had they been in trouble at school? With the law? 
Robbie knew he was right. And he knew what he had to do. 
The Free Spirit and its ships’ boats all had root on the shells, so they could perform diagnostics and maintenance and take control in emergencies. This was an emergency. 
It was the work of a few milliseconds to pry open the Isaac shell and boot the reef out. Robbie had never done this, but he was still flawless. Some of his probabilistic subsystems had concluded that this was a possibility several trillion cycles previously and had been rehearsing the task below Robbie’s threshold for consciousness. 
He left an instance of himself running on the row-boat, of course. Unlike many humans, Robbie was comfortable with the idea of bifurcating and merging his intelligence when the time came and with terminating temporary instances. The part that made him Robbie was a lot more clearly delineated for him—unlike an uploaded human, most of whom harbored some deep, mystic superstitions about their “souls.” 
He slithered into the skull before he had a chance to think too hard about what he was doing. He’d brought too much of himself along and didn’t have much headroom to think or add new conclusions. He jettisoned as much of his consciousness as he could without major refactoring and cleared enough space for thinking room. How did people get by in one of these? He moved the arms and legs. Waggled the head. Blew some air—air! lungs! wet squishy things down there in the chest cavity—out between the lips. 
“No! I want to walk.” 
“Not in this rain,” the doctor protested, “and in your overwrought condition.” 
“I must!” She got up, the tears still streaming down her cheeks. “I must!” she said wildly. “Let me go! Please let me go!” 
The doctor turned to Captain Grey. In the midst of her unutterable misery and confusion, Lexy still heard and understood what he was saying. 
“In a case of hysteria—better to humor her—the exercise and the fresh air may help her.” 
The doctor’s wife helped Lexy with her hat and coat. She was very gentle, very kind, and genuinely concerned for her unhappy little guest. Lexy remembered afterward that Mrs. Quelton kissed her; but at the moment nothing mattered except to get away, to get out of that house into the fresh air. 
Without one backward glance she set off at a furious pace, splashing through the puddles, almost running. Captain Grey kept easily by her side with his long, lithe stride. Now and then he spoke to her, but she could not trust herself to answer just yet. The storm within her was subsiding. From time to time a sob broke from her, but the tears had stopped. 
"Let me look at ye; come closer. What dress are ye wearin'?" said the old aunt in her cracked, weak voice. 
"My blue calico." 
"Is your cashmere holdin' its color?" 
"Yes, aunt Miranda." 
"Do you keep it in a dark closet hung on the wrong side, as I told ye?" 
"Always." 
"Has your mother made her jelly?" 
"She hasn't said." 
"She always had the knack o' writin' letters with nothin' in 'em. What's Mark broke sence I've been sick?" 
"Nothing at all, aunt Miranda." 
"Why, what's the matter with him? Gittin' lazy, ain't he? How 's John turnin' out?" 
"He's going to be the best of us all." 
"I hope you don't slight things in the kitchen because I ain't there. Do...  it upside down on the winder-sill?" 
"Yes, aunt Miranda." 
"It's always 'yes' with you, and 'yes' with Jane," groaned Miranda, trying to move her stiffened body; "but all the time I lay here knowin' there's things done the way I don't like 'em." 
There was a long pause, during which Rebecca sat down by the bedside and timidly touched her aunt's hand, her heart swelling with tender pity at the gaunt face and closed eyes. 
“Yes, thank you,” answered Lexy, and the doctor brought it to her. 
Poor Captain Grey and his precious, new-found sister! The sound of his voice brought tears to her eyes. 
“But this is idiotic!” she thought, annoyed and surprised. 
Still the tears welled up. She gulped down the rest of her tea hastily, hoping that it would steady her, but it did not help at all. Sobs rose in her throat, and an immense and formless sorrow came over her. 
“This has got to stop!” she thought, in alarm. “I can’t be such a chump!” 
She turned to Mrs. Quelton. 
“Are you going to grow any—” she began, but her voice was so unsteady that she had to stop for a moment. “Any flowers in—in your—g-garden?” 
The question ended in a loud and unmistakable sob. They all turned to look at her, startled and anxious. 
She made a desperate effort to regain control of herself. 
“S-snapdragon,” she said. “So—so p-pretty!” 
Then, suddenly, all her defenses gave way. The teacup fell from her hand and was shattered on the floor, and, burying her head in her arms, she cried as she had never cried in her life. 
The lighting is still dim here. More than half of the bulbs have blown, and those that haven't blown are sputtering. 
From what seems to be kilometers away, there is screaming. High pitched, ringing with terror, choking to silence. 
"Where is it coming from?" Kilgore growls. 
Ray strains to listen, but there are bulkheads and strange echoes, any number of distorting baffles between them. He steps out into the corridor, where there are bodies. Some are puddles of flesh, things he's seen before. Others are shattered wrecks, as though they've been smashed by hammers the size of tree trunks. The flesh is mangled, battered, stretched by bones which have poked through the skin. The walls are streaked with blood, angry red flowers from impact points where corpses flopped like tossed dolls and languid, wavy arcs from crewmen who slid lazily from wall to deck. Ray counts a dozen before he stops. 
He keeps himself from panic, from sounding panicked. "Becker, I need orientation on this deck." 
"What do you see?" 
"David damnit, pick up." I said it quieter this time, but I could feel my heart pounding. "This is an emergency." 
"Morgy, don't!" He yelled as I heard the receiver being lifted. "Jesus, I just walked in from the deli. Listen, thank God it's you. Drop whatever the hell you're not doing and get your butt in here. Jerry Reiner called, you know, the Orion distribution deal—and he wants a rough cut of Baby Love yesterday so he can pitch it to the suits on the fifth floor. We could be staring at financial success here. I hope you can handle the vulgarity of that." 
"David, you're not going to believe where I am," I began, working out my game plan as I went along, trying to sound cool and control my racing pulse. "I'm in northern Guate­mala, at a place that would make a terrific feature. It's like a Maya theme park, deep in the rain forest. But it's real. I want you to contact the embassy and get them to grease the way for my crew to come here. This is too good to pass up." I thought about the costs and then added, "At least one cam­era and sound." 
There was a crackle as the yellow diodes on the phone erupted in a high-pitched whistle, cutting the connection. 
No! My God, had somebody been listening in? 
So when exactly was he coming? Around dark? That would probably be about eight o'clock. Or maybe nine . . . 
I was closing the phone case when I heard a sound from outside, as though someone had passed the door, then come back to listen. 
All right. Get going. 
I gathered the printouts, then headed back through the laboratory, where I took a long, last look at the petri dishes being incubated. Should I just dump them now? But then he'd know for sure that I knew. 
The time would come, and soon. 
As I eased myself back into the fake-stone OR and closed the door, the dawn outside was steeped in forest sounds, clacks and whistles and chirps. That was good, because I needed some stray noise to mask what I was going to do next. Take control. 
I began by feeling along the fake-stone walls to find where the crevices were, the doors that enclosed the medical in­struments. Somewhere, I was sure, there was a cabinet that held a complete set of surgical equipment. 
Theoretically, the contracts were open to a competitive bidding process, but within the secure group at Google, in building 49, there was no question of who would win those contracts. If Google had spent $15 billion on a program to catch bad guys at the border, you can bet that they would have caught them -- governments just aren't equipped to Do Search Right. 
Greg looked himself in the eye that morning as he shaved -- the security minders didn't like hacker-stubble, and they weren't shy about telling you so -- and realized that today was his first day as a de facto intelligence agent in the US government. 
How bad would it be? Wasn't it better to have Google doing this stuff than some ham-fisted spook? 
He had himself convinced by the time he parked at the Googleplex, among the hybrid cars and bulging bike-racks. He stopped for an organic smoothie on the way to his desk, then sat down and sipped. 
The rumpled man hadn't been to the G since Greg went back to work, but it often felt like his influence was all around them in building 49. He wasn't any less rumpled today -- he could have been wrapped in saran-wrap on the day he brought Greg back to work and refrigerated for all that he hadn't changed a hair. 
“Not much—just that he took it to give them. But when they said he wasn’t supposed to be the courier, I stopped talking immediately. Arthur, we must be able to do something. Tell them he never made the pick up after all, or that someone stole it from us—I don’t know. But we have to. Arthur, I know his children.” 
I’d predicted this would be her reaction, but it was still aggravating. “Why on earth do you want to protect him?” I said. “He betrayed you.” 
“He’s such an idealist.” Something like hollow laughter threaded Halliday’s voice. “In retrospect, it makes so much sense, what you say about him wanting to release it. Wanting to do a good thing. Whatever they’ll do to him for this, he doesn’t deserve it.” 
“Most people don’t deserve the bad things that happen to them,” I said. “So what? At least in this case he actually did what he’ll be punished for.” 
Halliday turned to me with an expression so profoundly tragic I felt like a heel. 
“Sonya,” said Arthur. “There’s something else. Might not be able to worry about Zhang right now.” 
Unless, for some reason, it wasn’t. 
I stabbed at the button to connect the call. “This better be important.” 
“Xiaohu—when we—he didn’t—” Her words crashed against each other. 
“Spit it out, Professor. Did Zhang come pick up the proof?” 
“Yes, he was just here, but—he wasn’t supposed to take it!” she burst out. “He hadn’t even notified the NSA that we’d finished. He told me they’d cleared him to take custody, but I just talked to one of the agents and they say they never would have done it that way.” 
I sat up far too fast; my stomach and head both wanted to burst and blister. The room yawed sideways and I felt so sick I lost sense of reality for a moment. I fought savagely for coherence. “What are you talking about?” 
“Xiaohu was supposed to be keeping his superiors updated, but he didn’t tell them we completed the proof. And they say they never would have cleared him to be the one to take it. Now he’s not returning anyone’s calls; they can’t find him—” 
“Maybe he got stuck in traffic,” I said. 
I had a gut feeling, all right, but not that she was going to be fine. My real fear was she was going to wake up a fantasy-bound child again. 
Then I handed the locket back. He'd seemed to turn anx­ious without it. He took the silver heart and just stared down at it. In the silence that settled over us, I decided to take a closer look at the passport. I supposed Lou had already gone through it, but maybe he'd missed something. 
As I flipped through the waterlogged pages, I came across a smudgy imprint, caked with a thin layer of dried river clay, that was almost too dim to be noticed. 
"Lou, did you see this?" I held it under the light and beckoned him over. "Can you read it?" 
"Probably not without my specs." He took it and squinted helplessly. "My eyes aren't getting any better." 
I took it back and rubbed at the page, cleaning it. It was hard to make out, but it looked like "Delegacion de Migracion, Aeropuerto Internacional, Guatemala, C.A." 
"I think this is a Guatemalan tourist entry visa." I raised the passport up to backlight the page. "And see that faint bit there in the center? That's probably her entry date. Written in by hand." 
But she was gone more than a minute, and when she returned her face was curiously white. 
The clock struck eleven. Lexy glanced up from her book, in the vain hope that somebody would speak, would stir, would make some move to end this intolerable evening; but nobody did. 
Dr. Quelton and Captain Grey were playing chess. They sat facing each other at a small table, in a haze of tobacco smoke, silent and intent, as if they had been gods deciding human destinies. Mrs. Quelton lay on her chaise longue , doing nothing at all. If Lexy spoke to her, she answered in a low tone, but cheerfully enough; but she so obviously preferred not to talk that Lexy had taken up a book and vainly attempted to read. 
It was the most wearisome and depressing evening she had ever spent. Her lively and restless spirit had often enough found it dull at the Enderbys’, and at other times and places; but this was different, and infinitely worse. 
To begin with, a sense of guilt lay like lead upon her heart. She hoped and believed that what she had done was right, but she was afraid, terribly afraid, of what might result. She could not keep her eyes off Mrs. Quelton’s face. She watched the doctor’s wife with a dread and anxiety which she felt was ill concealed; and she had a chill suspicion that the doctor was watching her, in turn. 
“Wait!” Arturo said, trying to understand what he’d been told. The Peed units were so efficient —by the time they’d given you the sitrep, they’d already responded to the situation in perfect police procedure, but the problem was they worked so fast you couldn’t even think about what they were doing, couldn’t formulate any kind of hypothesis. Electromagnetic pulse? The Peed units were hardened against snooping, sniffing, pulsing, sideband and brute-force attacks. You’d have to hit one with a bolt of lightning to kill it. 
“Wait there,” Arturo said. “Do not leave the scene. Await my presence. Do not modify the scene or allow anyone else to do so. Acknowledge.” 
“It is my—” 
But this time, it wasn’t Arturo switching off the phone, it was the robot. Had the robot just hung up on him? He redialed it. No answer. 
He reached under his dash and flipped the first and second alert switches and the car leapt forward. He’d have to fill out some serious paperwork to justify a two-switch override on the Parkway, but two robots was more than a coincidence. 
After endless false starts that elicited utility screens I couldn't get rid of, I finally brought up an index of files, which included a long list of names. 
Biology 103—which I hated—was coming back. Plant-extract categories. Looks like he actually is doing research on the flora here. But . . . still, what does he need my ova for? 
I scrolled on. Scientific terms that meant nothing. Then, toward the end of the alphabetical list, I came to the word QUETZAL. 
What was that? I clicked on it and—lo and behold—up came a short list of names. Six in all, organized by dates about a year apart, and each a woman. 
My God. First I assumed they were patients from Quetzal Manor who'd come here for fertility treatment, though each was indicated "terminated" at the end, whatever that meant. But as I scanned down, I didn't want to see what I was seeing. The name next to the last was S. Crenshaw. She'd been "ter­minated" too. 
The bottom was M. James. But I hadn't been "termi­nated." Not yet. 
I slumped back in the chair, trying to breathe. How much more of this horror could I handle? Finally I leaned forward again and with a trembling hand clicked on S. Crenshaw. 
Hopefully he’d be just far gone enough to warn her. 
We left the motorcycle in a park a few blocks out and I led the way at a jog, hoping I remembered the layout of streets correctly in this part of Los Angeles. I didn’t have the city memorized by a long shot, but I’d had enough close escapes that I had made a point of swallowing large portions of the road map, and hard experience had taught me to take special care to know the areas near the airports. 
Of course, the moment we skidded around the corner onto El Segundo, we ran straight into a gang of looters shouting raucously and hurling Molotov cocktails through the windows of a large sporting goods store. 
They saw us. One of them catcalled. Another drew a knife. I shot him before he finished the motion. 
The shouting stopped as if the looters’ voices had been snuffed out. I saw another guy start to reach into his pants and shot him, too. One of his mates started screaming profanity at me, and my handgun barked one more time—I had far more bullets than I had patience. 
“What did you say?” I whispered finally. Dangerously. 
“I’m sorry,” he said. “I’m sorry. But—” 
I didn’t wait to hear the rest of it. I banged out of the Hole. My tires squealed against the asphalt as I peeled away. 
Everything was wrong. Crumbling. Disintegrating. 
Enough emotion welled up to swallow me, drown me. This job was nothing, my life was nothing...I was nothing. A speck of dust in a hurricane. Powerless. 
We couldn’t find Martinez, and we didn’t even know why she had stolen the proof in the first place. I was mathematically and mentally broken, and to top it off I couldn’t even finish one goddamn commission and track down one seventy-year-old woman. And Checker...what Checker had said... 
I couldn’t have cared less about my memory. My brain shied away from it. Not remembering was just fine with me. 
The math, though. The math was everything. 
If only I could fix that, then nothing else would matter. Not the two-decade long blank spot in my head, not the fact that I was failing so miserably in my work, not that fact that I’d left myself a note in a freakin’ graveyard like some kind of sadistically creepy fortune-teller...not the fact that my so-called friends only seemed to give a damn about me as suited their own needs. 
<ferret> What's the news, Shad? 
<callmecheese> Shad! Phone home. We're wor- ried . 
<Gargle> 'Sup, Shad? You have any luck with that lawyer? 
<Falstaff> Tap tap tap - is this thing on? 
<ferret> Don't leave your family hanging. 
<callmecheese> Come on. Shad. The suspense is killing us. 
I typed a line. 
<Shad> Hey guys, I'm back. Palaver? 
They pinged in and in a few seconds I could start typing again. 
<Shad> Got a lawyer. 
<ferret> Great ! 
<callmecheese> Huzzah! 
<DoDec> Which one did you get? ...  Plus she recruited a whole legal team . 
<ferret> Awesome! ...  that's where she lives. 
<DoDec> We should start a defense fund. 
We're talking big bucks. Even if the lawyer's pro bono, there's filing fees and shit. Adds up fast. 
<Kadabra> Paypal okay? DM me your deets and we'll get it rolling. 
<ferret> Unless there's one already started. 
<Gargle> That's what I wondered. I found this site. Are you working with them, Shad? 
The link took me to a website for something called “The Sol- idarity Committee for the Minneapolis Nine.” It looked a lot like sites used by other local activist groups. I did a Whois search and saw that the site owner’s identity was public - address, phone number, the works. Another quick search told me he was a kid who had become a full-time organizer, helping progressive causes around the Twin Cities by building websites and running social media campaigns. But duh, he wasn’t even smart enough to use a proxy domain. 
The room was quiet; the red leaves rustled in the breeze and flew in at the open window, bearing the first compliments of the season. Miss Maxwell came and sat by Rebecca's side on the bench. 
"Did you think these were good?" she asked, giving her the verses. 
"Not so very," confessed Rebecca; "but it's hard to tell all by yourself. The Perkinses and the Cobbs always said they were wonderful, but when Mrs. Cobb told me she thought they were better than Mr. Longfellow's I was worried, because I knew that couldn't be true." 
This ingenuous remark confirmed Miss Maxwell's opinion of Rebecca as a girl who could hear the truth and profit by it. 
"Well, my child," she said smilingly, "your friends were wrong and you were right; judged by the proper tests, they are pretty bad." 
"Then I must give up all hope of ever being a writer!" sighed Rebecca, who was tasting the bitterness of hemlock and wondering if she could keep the tears back until the interview was over. 
"Don't go so fast," interrupted Miss Maxwell. "Though they don't amount to anything as poetry, they show a good deal of promise in certain directions. You almost never make a mistake in rhyme or metre, and this shows you have a natural sense of what is right; a 'sense of form,' poets would call it. When you grow older, have a little more experience,—in fact, when you have something to say, I think you may write very good verses. Poetry needs knowledge and vision, experience and imagination, Rebecca. You have not the first three yet, but I rather think you have a touch of the last." 
she typed back. 
The brigands on the road were punters, but the cottage that was their target was guarded by an altogether more sophisticated sort. They were spotted by sentries long before they got within sight of the cottage, and they saw the warning spell travel up from the sentries’ hilltop like a puff of smoke, speeding away toward the cottage. Anda raced up the hill while Lucy covered her with her bow, but that didn’t stop the sentries from subjecting Anda to a hail of flaming spears from their fortified position. Anda set up her standard dodge-and-weave pattern, assuming that the sentries were non-player characters—who wanted to pay to sit around in gamespace watching a boring road all day?—and to her surprise, the spears followed her. She took one in the chest and only some fast work with her shield and all her healing scrolls saved her. As it was, her constitution was knocked down by half and she had to retreat back down the hillside. 
“Get down,” Lucy said in her headset. “I’m gonna use the BFG.” 
After counting to five, I followed him into the little kitchen. 
“Do you have some paper towels?” 
He dropped something into a drawer and nudged it shut with his hip. “By the sink.” 
I ripped some paper towels off the roll and went back out to mop up the wine, feeling his eyes on my back. 
A minute later, he came back with another glass of wine, giving it to me with a big smile. Good old Simon. I wandered around the room, pretend- ing to be interested in the view from the front windows. With my back turned toward him I poured half the glass out into one of the dead plants on his windowsill, saying as I did it, “What you were saying before. You actually have a connection? I mean, for explo- sives?” 
“I know all kinds of people. But enough politics for one night. 
Come sit down, get comfortable. Let’s listen to some music.” 
I plopped beside him on the couch and sent instructions to my face: smile, dammit. 
“Like that wine, huh?” He nodded at the half-empty glass. 
“Yeah. Gotta slow down, though. It’s going to my head.” 
"Whoever said I was a nice girl?" 
Her grin is enticing, wicked, reminds him that he could have sworn he'd just said he didn't make deals with devils. 
"I'm not really in a position..." he starts lamely. This is considerably too fast for his taste. He thinks she might be flirting with him, toying with him, but he can't be certain. Unless nudity is involved, Ray's sensitivity to flirtation in generally is dreadfully inadequate. "I mean, I'm on duty until 6:00 Greenwich. I'm sorry." 
And he is. Truly. Deeply. 
But she dismisses him with a flick of her head, what amounts to an effete shrug. "I guess it wasn't meant to be." 
Emma Whiston glances back over her shoulder, and Ray notices for the first time the man leaning against the wall by the theater doors. Dark haired, brooding, thin and rangy and cataclysmically poetic, like a walking impersonation of Percy Shelley. He is smoking a cigarette, assuming a casual pose, but the knotted muscles of his jaw and the almost frenetic way he flips his ashes into the can suggest a titanic effort to hide his impatience. 
“I wonder if I’ll ever see her wearing them again!” she thought. 
For a long time she stood motionless, looking down at the things that Caroline had worn. Most pitifully eloquent, they seemed to her—the hat that had covered Caroline’s fair hair, the coat that had fitted her slender shoulders. Lexy looked and looked, grave and sorrowful—and in that moment her resolution was made. 
“I’m going to find her!” she said, half aloud. “I don’t care what any one else does or what any one else thinks. I know she’s in trouble of some sort, and I’m going to find her!” 
The last trace of what Lexy had called “mawkish self-pity” had vanished now. She was no longer concerned with Mrs. Enderby’s attitude toward herself. It didn’t matter. Finding another job didn’t matter, either. She had a little money due her, and she meant to use it—every penny of it—in finding Caroline. 
She washed her hands and face, brushed her hair, put on her own hat and jacket, and went downstairs again. Mrs. Enderby was standing in the tiny hall, and from the sitting room there came a sound of muffled sobbing. 
The confines of the human-shell were claustrophobic. He especially missed his wireless link. The dive-suit had one, lowband for underwater use, broadband for surface use. The human-shell had one, too, for transferring into and out of, but it wasn’t under direct volitional control of the rider. 
Down he sank, confused by the feeling of the water all around him, by the narrow visual light spectrum he could see. Cut off from the network and his telemetry, he felt like he was trapped. The reef shuddered and groaned, and made angry moans like whale-song. 
He hadn’t thought about how hard it would be to find Kate once he was in the water. With his surface telemetry, it had been easy to pinpoint her, a perfect outline of human tissue in the middle of the calcified branches of coral. Down here on the reef-wall, every chunk looked pretty much like the last. 
The reef boomed more at him. He realized that it likely believed that the shell was still loaded with its avatar. 
Robbie had seen endless hours of footage of the reef, studied it in telemetry and online, but he’d never had this kind of atavistic experience of it. It stretched away to infinity below him, far below the 100 meter visibility limit in the clear open sea. Its walls were wormed with gaps and caves, lined with big hard shamrocks and satellite-dish-shaped blooms, brains and cauliflowers. He knew the scientific names and had seen innumerable high-resolution photos of them, but seeing them with wet, imperfect eyes was moving in a way he hadn’t anticipated. ...  on its edge could be modeled with simple flocking rules, but here in person, their precision maneuvers were shockingly crisp. Robbie waved his hands at them and watched them scatter and reform. A huge, dog-faced cod swam past him, so close it brushed the underside of his wetsuit. 
too. While I'm young, something to keep me in the public eye so I can attract a suitable match. That means public relations most likely. The simple truth is that they haven't told me yet, and apparently they haven't liked my ideas on the subject." 
"And those would be?" 
Emma flings her arms wide, a starlet pose. "Why, to be fabulously wealthy and decadent and die young in an exotic land surrounded by adoring and nubile devotees, of course. Is there anything else worth aspiring to?" 
This is perhaps a not so subtle indication that she wants to drop the subject, so Ray lets her. He's gotten enough out of the business portion of this lunch to justify the expense on the cred pool to Becker. 
"So where do I fit into these future plans?" 
"You would be the High Priest, Ray, shielding my glory from the masses, worshipping at my altar, heeding my every command." 
She comes across as completely earnest, so Ray nods playfully. "It's been too long since the universe has seen a well conducted theocracy." 
"It's not the Mes, but I'm not ruling out physical hazard at this point. Honestly, I just don't know what we're up against. I hope to have a clearer picture shortly." 
This is annoyingly vague for Ray's taste, but it's all he is prepared to offer. Rodriguez only frowns slightly, 
accepting without comment. 
"So you're telling us that we're supposed to spend the next couple of weeks hitting on chicks, spending EED's cash, buying rounds in the local drinking establishments and generally being publicly vivacious?" Kilgore rubs his hand thoughtfully along his chin, mulls the possibilities. "I think I can probably live with that, even if the room does suck. You want we should start now?" 
"Get settled in first. This evening, we're going down to Omicron again for a little confab with Bobby Diggs. 
I'll need the two of you there to help put him at ease. You can start being vivacious first thing in the morning. " 
Kilgore and Rodriguez exchange a significant look, like they're trying to decide if it's appropriate to give a high five. Instead, they nod and troop back toward the bedroom. But at the corner, Rodriguez stops and peers at Ray. 
"Hi." I disengaged myself as quickly as possible. The slimeball. 
Again, why was he here? The way I understood it, we'd signed a legitimate, ironclad note. Nicky wasn't exactly the Chase Manhattan Bank, but I assumed he was a "man of honor," would live by any deal David had with him. "Do we have some kind of problem?" 
"Nah," Nicky said, "I'm thinking of it more in the way of an opportunity. Dave, here, showed me some of your pic­ture this morning, and it ain't too bad. Got me to thinking. You're gonna need a video distributor. So maybe I could help you out." 
Oh, shit and double-shit. I looked at him, realizing what he had in mind. "How's that? Applecore already has a video distributor. We use—" 
"Yeah, well, like I was telling Dave, I got a nose this picture's gonna do some serious business." He tried a smile. "Whenever I see one of these indy things that don't add up for me, like this one, I always know it's a winner. What I'm telling you is, I think you got something here. He says you're figuring on a cable deal, and maybe a theatrical release, but after that you gotta worry about video. I'm just thinking a way I could pitch in." 
“Because nothing says ‘discreet’ like coming after Arthur and me with a grenade launcher,” I said. 
“You might think that, but I assure you, I’ve been trying to trace that SUV since this morning with no luck. It’s like it popped up out of nowhere. I’m hoping Arthur will at least be able to get me a partial VIN. No, they might go in for the dramatic, but the way they’ve been disappearing in between—” 
His hands froze on the keyboard. 
“What?” I said. 
Checker turned to one of his other machines without answering and started typing very fast. 
“What is it?” 
“I think—” His fingers slowed. “I think I know who it is.” 
“What? What do you mean? You found who has Halliday?” 
“Well, I can’t find them. But I think I would be able to if they weren’t wiped.” 
“Hey.” I snapped my fingers at him. “Make sense.” 
“I think it’s the Lancer.” 
“Who’s that?” 
“A black hat hacker. A pretty infamous one. So much of what I’ve been trying to track has been wiped, and I just realized—it’s his style, exactly. The way the information’s gone missing—it’s like a shadow. His shadow.” 
"We shouldn't have, except that Ruth Berry had to go away suddenly on account of her father's death. This room was empty, and Miss Maxwell asked if we might have it," returned Emma Jane. 
"The great and only Max is more stiff and standoffish than ever this year," said Huldah. "I've simply given up trying to please her, for there's no justice in her; she is good to her favorites, but she doesn't pay the least attention to anybody else, except to make sarcastic speeches about things that are none of her business. I wanted to tell her yesterday it was her place to teach me Latin, not manners." 
"I wish you wouldn't talk against Miss Maxwell to me," said Rebecca hotly. "You know how I feel." 
"I know; but I can't understand how you can abide her." 
"I not only abide, I love her!" exclaimed Rebecca. "I wouldn't let the sun shine too hot on her, or the wind blow too cold. I'd like to put a marble platform in her class-room and have her sit in a velvet chair behind a golden table!" 
"Well, don't have a fit!—because she can sit where she likes for all of me; I've got something better to think of," and Huldah tossed her head. 
“I interviewed Senator Hammond’s assistant,” said Tresting. “From Kingsley’s, Reginald Kingsley’s, notes. Same thing, almost word for word. Assistant remembered the Senator saying he ‘supposed’ he had a liedown. Except then he about-faced on a nuclear arms treaty.” 
“So someone from Pithica is telling her to say this,” I said. 
Tresting was watching Dr. Kingsley very closely. “Or something.” 
Kingsley drew away from him. “What are you implying?” 
Tresting didn’t answer. “What do you say, Agent Finch?” 
“Unfortunately, this is need-to-know,” said Finch. “What connection do the two of you have to Dr. Kingsley?” 
“Unfortunately, that’s need-to-know,” I parroted back at him, and raised my gun again. “You know something about Polk, and about Pithica, don’t you? You’re going to tell us.” 
“This has gone far enough,” said Kingsley. Her voice was firm again, with the strong charisma of authority, and it was hard to believe she didn’t mean it. “Leave, all of you, or I’m calling the police.” 
Tresting reached out and grasped her shoulders. “Please, Doc. Talk to me. What happened today that made you change your mind?” 
Finally, she allows her shoulders to slump and offers him a relaxed and weary frown. Not unhappy, just bland, 
almost an absence of expression. "It seems I've been a bad influence, Mr. Marlowe. You've known me for two days, and here you are already behaving audaciously." 
"I know. It's late, but you didn't strike me as the type of girl who put to bed early." 
"I don't believe you know enough about me or my sleeping habits to make such a bold statement. How quickly I jump into bed might just surprise you." 
She speaks without mischief, an innocent absence of intent. There's no play in her at all. 
"Did I wake you?" Ray asks, a form of apology. 
Emma shakes her head. "I was— No, not at all. It's dreadfully early for the young socialite, as you suggest." 
"No, it's late. I should have been more considerate, waited until tomorrow." 
This was a mistake. What had he been thinking? 
"It's fine, really. I don't object to visitors. Not you, especially. But you didn't bring your rat with you, I see. I had conceived a notion that the two of you were inseparable." 
Dr. Martinez had struggled with whether to share her new knowledge with the world. It made sense that she’d at least used it to spread other knowledge, even if she’d destroyed the programs she’d used to do it. 
Destroyed. And Martinez herself dead. If she had ever had the proof, it was gone with her, a state functionally equivalent to one in which she’d never discovered it at all. 
Even if her result was true, I would never be able to replicate it myself, and without it, I was stuck. Forever. Locked in a place bare of mathematical intuition. An idiot savant missing the one skill that counted. 
Halliday stood. “I’m going to send the PDE proofs around. Maybe she stole them, too, and someone will take credit. Or maybe she just wanted to make a point, to prove something, by learning the field herself.” 
Prove something. It sounded so simple, for something so entirely out of reach. 
I went to see Checker a few days after Martinez’s funeral. I’d spent most of the last couple weeks asleep on the good pills, until the black market prescription drugs Dr. Washington had given me had run out. My hands still got twitchy every so often, but less every day. 
#######At which precise time, like a deus ex machina , enter Steve Abrams, the man who gave me hope. He came along just as I was noticing that infinite stream of wonderful guys had dwindled down to relationship dropouts, men with distant eyes and former wives in other states. We discovered each other at the reopened Oloffson Hotel in Haiti, where I was shooting a documentary about voodoo and he was photo­graphing that country's ragged, plucky children for National Geographic. No ex-spouses, no need for psychic pampering. Okay, he wasn't going to win a Mr. Universe contest any time soon; he had a couple of extra pounds that, actually, I kind of liked. But he was my age, had great brown eyes, sandy hair thinning only just a bit. No Greek god but definitely a man. He could tune a Jeep carburetor with his eyes closed or fix a cranky hotel lock, then recite Byron (sort of) and proceed to snare the perfect...  But I knew I loved him when I realized it was more than any of that. I felt as if I'd found the other half of myself. Just one glance across the table and we each knew what the other was thinking, feeling. We'd laugh at the same instant, then as though on cue, half cry together over the miseries of that wretched island. Sometimes it was almost eerie. And as for lovemaking, let me just say Steve didn't need a how-to manual. We were made for each other. 
Robbie didn’t say anything. 
“Let’s see, what else?” She was pacing now, her voice hot and choked, unfamiliar sounds coming from Janet’s voicebox. “He told you I was a pervert, didn’t he? Queer for his kind. Incest and bestiality in the rarified heights of the noosphere.” 
Robbie felt helpless. This human was clearly experiencing a lot of pain, and it seemed like he’d caused it. 
“Please don’t cry,” he said. “Please?” 
She looked up at him, tears streaming down her cheeks. “Why the fuck not ? I thought it would be different once I ascended. I thought I’d be better once I was in the sky, infinite and immortal. But I’m the same Kate Eltham I was in 2019, a loser that couldn’t meet a guy to save my life, spent all my time cybering losers in moggs, and only got the upload once they made it a charity thing. I’m gonna spend the rest of eternity like that, you know it? How’d you like to spend the whole of the universe being a, a, a nobody ?” 
“There, there,” he said as sincerely as he could. 
Felix found to his surprise that he had his hand in the air. Popovich called on him. 
“My name is Felix Tremont,” he said, getting up on one of the tables, drawing out his PDA. “I want to read you something. 
“‘Governments of the Industrial World, you weary giants of flesh and steel, I come from Cyberspace, the new home of Mind. On behalf of the future, I ask you of the past to leave us alone. You are not welcome among us. You have no sovereignty where we gather. 
“‘We have no elected government, nor are we likely to have one, so I address you with no greater authority than that with which liberty itself always speaks. I declare the global social space we are building to be naturally independent of the tyrannies you seek to impose on us. You have no moral right to rule us nor do you possess any methods of enforcement we have true reason to fear. 
“‘Governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed. You have neither solicited nor received ours. We did not invite you. You do not know us, nor do you know our world. Cyberspace does not lie within your borders. Do not think that you can build it, as though it were a public construction project. You cannot. It is an act of nature and it grows itself through our collective actions.’ 
Leon sat up, found his shirt, started buttoning it up. "Seriously, Brautigan." 
"Seriously?" He sat down on the floor next to Leon, his big feet straight out ahead of him. His shoes had been designed by the same architect that did Leon's. Leon recognized the style. "Seriously." He scratched his chin. Suddenly, he slumped. "I'm shitting bricks, Leon. I am seriously shitting bricks." 
"How did it go with your monster?" 
Brautigan stared at the architect's shoes. There was an odd flare they did, just behind the toe, just on the way to the laces, that was really graceful. Leon thought it might be a standard distribution bell-curve. "My monster is..." He blew out air. "Uncooperative." 
"Less cooperative than previously?" 
Brautigan unlaced his shoes and peeled off his socks, scrunched his toes in the moss. His feet gave off a hot, trapped smell. 
"What was he like on the other times you'd seen him?" 
Brautigan tilted his head. "What do you mean?" 
"He was uncooperative this time, what about the other times?" 
Rebecca's hair was loosened and falling over her forehead in ruffled waves; her eyes were brilliant, her cheeks crimson; there was a hint of everything in the girl's face,—of sensitiveness and delicacy as well as of ardor; 
"The souls by nature pitched too high, 
By suffering plunged too low." 
"That's just the way you look, for all the world as if you did have a lamp burning inside of you," sighed aunt Jane. "Rebecca! Rebecca! I wish you could take things easier, child; I am fearful for you sometimes." 
The days flew by; as summer had melted into autumn so autumn had given place to winter. Life in the brick house had gone on more placidly of late, for Rebecca was honestly trying to be more careful in the performance of her tasks and duties as well as more quiet in her plays, and she was slowly learning the power of the soft answer in turning away wrath. 
Miranda had not had, perhaps, quite as many opportunities in which to lose her temper, but it is only just to say that she had not fully availed herself of all that had offered themselves. 
"Can we possibly go on doing it? Shan't we have to give up and tell her why?" asked Jane tearfully of the elder sister. 
"We have put our hand to the plough, and we can't turn back," answered Miranda in her grimmest tone; "we've taken her away from her mother and offered her an education, and we've got to keep our word. She's Aurelia's only hope for years to come, to my way o' thinkin'. Hannah's beau takes all her time 'n' thought, and when she gits a husband her mother'll be out o' sight and out o' mind. John, instead of farmin', thinks he must be a doctor,—as if folks wasn't gettin' unhealthy enough these days, without turnin' out more young doctors to help 'em into their graves. No, Jane; we'll skimp 'n' do without, 'n' plan to git along on our interest money somehow, but we won't break into our principal, whatever happens." 
"Breaking into the principal" was, in the minds of most thrifty New England women, a sin only second to arson, theft, or murder; and, though the rule was occasionally carried too far for common sense,—as in this case, where two elderly women of sixty might reasonably have drawn something from their little hoard in time of special need,—it doubtless wrought more of good than evil in the community. 
“We’ll find him,” she said, like she was powerful enough to make a promise that I knew she couldn’t keep. 
“Also, some of that sports drink with electrolytes. I’d do it, but there are cameras at the checkout.” 
Somebody else came into the bathroom, so I left and climbed into the backseat. Nikko took the driver’s seat. 
“Might want to top off the tank when we get near Davenport so we don’t have to stop again,” I said to him. “We’ll be sheltering a fugitive.” 
Bree came out with two bulging bags. “Provisions,” she said, 
grinning at me. “Fet’s go.” 
E ven though I risked turning on my phone to use Open Street Map, it was hard to find Concord Street in the dark, 
and we accidentally crossed the Mississippi twice on two different bridges before we figured out how to get there. Everyone was in a bad mood by the time we finally found the street and were headed in the right direction through the gloom. It was a potholed two- lane road that had things on it like water treatment plants and junked car lots, along with a few decrepit houses. We kept going, 
"Well, good luck." 
In a way I was wondering if we weren't both now grasping for a miracle: me half-hoping for a baby through some New Age process of "centering," Lou trying to reclaim Sarah from her mental abyss with his gruff love. But then again, miracles have been known to happen. 
" Q uetzal Manor could have the makings of a great documentary," I was explaining to David Roth. "I just need some more information-gathering first, to get a better feeling for what Alex Goddard is up to. So going back up there will be two birds with one stone. I'll learn more about him, and he might even be able to tell me why I haven't been able to get pregnant." 
He was frowning, his usual skeptical self. "How long—?" 
"It's just for the weekend, or maybe a little . . . I'm not sure exactly. I guess it depends on what kinds of tests he's going to run. But the thing is, I have to do it now, while he and I are still clicking. An 'iron is hot' kind of moment. The only possible problem might be if I have to push back my schedule for looping dialogue for Baby Love and then some­body's out of town." 
“Well, he should’ve thought of that before he stole from the freakin’ NSA,” I said. “Or at least planned his theft a little better.” Bad tradecraft. I didn’t have any sympathy for that. 
Arthur shot me a look. 
“Do they know?” Halliday asked. “The government, do they know yet?” 
“Don’t know what they know,” said Arthur. “But they gonna find out. What did you tell them so far?” 
“Not much—just that he took it to give them. But when they said he wasn’t supposed to be the courier, I stopped talking immediately. Arthur, we must be able to do something. Tell them he never made the pick up after all, or that someone stole it from us—I don’t know. But we have to. Arthur, I know his children.” 
I’d predicted this would be her reaction, but it was still aggravating. “Why on earth do you want to protect him?” I said. “He betrayed you.” 
“He’s such an idealist.” Something like hollow laughter threaded Halliday’s voice. “In retrospect, it makes so much sense, what you say about him wanting to release it. Wanting to do a good thing. Whatever they’ll do to him for this, he doesn’t deserve it.” 
Hold on. How far do I have to play along to stay in his chess game? 
Then I glanced down again at the tray. "And what's in that...  so I've had Marcelina prepare you a healthy broth of soy extract and buckwheat and rainforest herbs that—" 
"What kind of rainforest herbs exactly?" I was starving, but no way in hell "Medicinal ones. Part of your program of wholeness." He turned, with that faraway look of his, and opened the window slats. Beyond them I could see foliage, now alive with flocks of multicolored birds. The forest was in full cry. "You know, so many drugs are waiting to be discovered up here." He was gazing out. "Beyond this window is a giant pharmacy, but if it goes like the rest of the Peten, it'll soon be bulldozed to make way for more cattle ranches." 
He came back and picked up the syringe. That was when I noticed it didn't seem to be entirely empty. It appeared to contain traces of a yellow substance, though maybe I was imagining. . . . 
"Look, about the blood test. I don't think—" 
The question seemed to be one he didn't get asked too often, because he stopped cold. 
"All those who come here are my children," he replied, putting aside my records, dismissively finished with them. 
"Well"—I pointed to them—"what do you think?" 
"I haven't examined you yet," he said, looking up and smiling, indeed beaming with confidence. "Nothing in those records tells me anything about what may be your problem. I look for different things than do most physicians." 
He fiddled with something beneath his desk, and the room was abruptly filled with the sound of a hypnotic drone. Per­haps its frequency matched one in my brain, because I instantly felt relaxed and full of hope. Much better than Muzak. Then he rose and came over. 
Is he going to do my exam right here? I wondered. Where's all the ob/gyn paraphernalia? The humiliating stirrups? 
Standing in front of me, he gently placed his hands on my heart, then bent over and seemed to be listening to my chest. His touch was warm, then cold, then warm, but the overall effect was to send a sense of well-being through my entire body. 
“But he was never really that mad about anything. Him and his friends thought society was messed up, so they decided they wouldn’t be part of it. They didn’t worry about going to school and getting jobs, they didn’t pay bills because they didn’t have credit cards or car loans. They moved into a house that nobody wanted and went dumpster diving for food that was going to waste and figured out how to get along with each other without following other people’s rules.” 
“What did they do for heat?” she asked. 
I began to feel as if I was narrating some National Geographic special about a primitive tribe I had just discovered in Darkest Minneapolis. “They had a kerosene heater at first, but it smelled awful, so they rescued a wood stove from a house that was being torn down.” 
“Rescued?” 
“They asked first. And Wheeze made sure it worked right, so it wouldn’t burn the place down.” 
“That’s something.” But I noticed that she jotted “kerosene” 
on her notepad. 
“They make their own beer, so I’m sure there are plenty of glass bottles around, too. You know, bomb-making equipment like you can find in any kitchen.” 
"Not so very," confessed Rebecca; "but it's hard to tell all by yourself. The Perkinses and the Cobbs always said they were wonderful, but when Mrs. Cobb told me she thought they were better than Mr. Longfellow's I was worried, because I knew that couldn't be true." 
This ingenuous remark confirmed Miss Maxwell's opinion of Rebecca as a girl who could hear the truth and profit by it. 
"Well, my child," she said smilingly, "your friends were wrong and you were right; judged by the proper tests, they are pretty bad." 
"Then I must give up all hope of ever being a writer!" sighed Rebecca, who was tasting the bitterness of hemlock and wondering if she could keep the tears back until the interview was over. 
"Don't go so fast," interrupted Miss Maxwell. "Though they don't amount to anything as poetry, they show a good deal of promise in certain directions. You almost never make a mistake in rhyme or metre, and this shows you have a natural sense of what is right; a 'sense of form,' poets would call it. When you grow older, have a little more experience,—in fact, when you have something to say, I think you may write very good verses. Poetry needs knowledge and vision, experience and imagination, Rebecca. You have not the first three yet, but I rather think you have a touch of the last." 
"OK," Trish said. "This is an official pep talk. They're playing dirty now. Last night, my car tried to take me to Arlington via Detroit. My email is arriving on a 72 hour time-delay. My phone doesn't ring, or it rings all night long. I've had to switch it off. 
"But what all of this means is that I've got more uninterrupted work-time than ever and I'm getting reacquainted with my bicycle." 
"Every number I call rings at my ex-girlfriend's place," the grassroots guy said. "I think we're going to get back together!" 
"That's the right attitude, boy-o," the lawyer said. "When life gives you SARS, make sarsaparilla. I appear to be unable to access any of my personal files, and any case-law I query shows up one sentence at a time. I've discovered that the Georgetown University law-library...  terrific high tea, and I've set Giselle to work on refiling and cross-indexing twenty years' worth of yellow pads that had previously sat mouldering in a storage locker that I was paying far too much for." 
And he said, What makes you think they can't? I said, Well, if Rhindquist could read my mind, he would have known that I was going to call out Security the day we met, at Finance 38. Tony said, Rhindquist is just a puppet of the Ones In Charge. They pull his strings and he dances for them. 
I said I didn't understand and Tony looked at me with pity. He said, The Ones In Charge are running all the cities, Microsoft and England and BBD&O and Red Stripe. They know everything that's going on. This is all a game for them. 
And I said, Boy, you don't know anything! BBD&O is our biggest enemy! File-O-Gator is locked in a death-struggle with them, it said so on the news this morning! 
Jap, Tony said, we're not fighting BBD&O -- File-O-Gator is. We're riding a slidewalk back home. Can't you tell the difference between fighting and riding a slidewalk? 
And I said, Of course I can! That's full of sophistry! (Another Power Word, which means cow-patties) We're part of File-O-Gator. File-O-Gator is fighting BBD&O. That means we're fighting BBD&O, Ergo. (That means, So there!) 
Her voice broke. 
“No more!” she said. “It is finished. But—attend, Miss Moran! There must be no scandal. No one is to know that she is not here.” 
She turned and walked out of the room. Lexy sank into a chair. 
“I don’t care!” she said to herself. 
“She’s wrong—I know it! It’s not what she thinks. Caroline’s not like that. Something dreadful has happened!” 
It seemed perfectly natural to be awakened in the morning by Mrs. Enderby’s hand on her shoulder, and to look up into Mrs. Enderby’s flashing black eyes. Lexy had gone to sleep dominated by the thought of that masterful woman. She vaguely remembered having dreamed of her, and when she opened her eyes—there she was. 
“Get up!” said Mrs. Enderby in a low voice. “Go into Caroline’s room. When Annie comes with the breakfast tray, take it from her at the door. I have told her that Caroline is ill with a headache. You understand?” 
“Yes, Mrs. Enderby,” answered Lexy. 
She sprang out of bed and began to dress, filled with an unreasoning sense of haste. It wasn’t a dream, then—it was true. Caroline had gone, and there was something Lexy must do for her. She could not have explained what this something was, but it oppressed and worried her. She could not rid herself of the feeling that she was not being loyal to Caroline. 
"Well, we're going to make sure you get a good night's rest." Dr. Summers finished with the chart and started taking his pulse. "What's left of it." 
"How long am I going to be in here, Doc?" Lou asked, flinching as the nurses removed the IV stuck in his arm. 
"A couple of days. For observation. To make sure there're no complications." He smiled again. "You're a lucky man, Mr. . . . Crenshaw. Just a superficial cut. But we don't want you out playing handball for a few days." He turned and gave me a conspiratorial wink, then glanced back. "Okay, up we go." 
"Can I come with him?" I asked, not optimistic but hop­ing. 
The doctor looked genuinely contrite. "I'm really sorry, but he's going to be fine and visiting hours are long past. You can call in the morning. And you can come up anytime after two P.M. tomorrow. Let's let him get some rest now." 
I walked around and took Lou's hand, hot and fevered, feeling so agitated. 
"Don't think about anything tonight, okay? Worrying won't help. Just get some sleep. I'm going to find her, I promise you." 
“Yes, she came by my school.” 
“Mine too. She asked me to look out for you because of what she saw in you that day.” 
“Liza the Organiza goes to Ohio?” 
“Idaho. Yes—all across the US. They put her on the tube and everything. She’s amazing, and she cares about the game, too—that’s what makes us all Fahrenheits: we’re committed to each other, to teamwork, and to fair play.” 
Anda had heard these words—lifted from the Fahrenheit mission statement—many times, but now they made her swell a little with pride. 
“So these people in Mexico or wherever, what are they doing? They’re earning their living by exploiting the game. You and me, we would never trade cash for gold, or buy a character or a weapon on eBay—it’s cheating. You get gold and weapons through hard work and hard play. But those Mexicans spend all day, every day, crafting stuff to turn into gold to sell off on the exchange. That’s where it comes from —that’s where the crappy players get their gold from! That’s how rich noobs can buy their way into the game that we had to play hard to get into. 
“I’m not your friend, Cas,” he said quietly. “You know that. Don’t ever think otherwise.” 
I did know. Friends cared about you. But friends also knew you well enough to communicate without words, and did things like save your life and then stay by your side and take care of you while you were injured. Did it matter that Rio didn’t care about me, as long as he acted like he did, and always would? Did it matter that he did it for other reasons, for his own grand religious reasons, instead of because he felt any sort of affection for me? 
Plenty of people were only generous and kind and giving because they thought it was the way of God. They were still good people. What was friendship, after all? 
I slipped back to sleep. 
The first time I woke enough to have a real conversation, Arthur was back. “Hi,” I rasped. 
He was instantly attentive. “Hey, Russell. How you feeling?” 
“Fuzzy,” I answered. “Where’s Rio?” 
His lip twitched. “Out.” 
“You still don’t like Rio?” I frowned at him, trying to string the right words together. “He saved all our lives. He saved me. Again.” 
He charges past the maze of storage units where the shells hang in nanomesh nets. Left and right, at the terminus of the long rows, there are bays stacked with shipping crates full of small arms ammunition, rifles, 
thermite grenades. To the rear, what would be the hull facing side, there are low olive-walled staging stations like machine gun pits. The walls are blast resistant, almost two meters high, with a fine, mistlike mesh screen over the top. Opposite a double switchback entry are the wide bores of the loading tubes which feed the matter cannon. Between the stations is a narrow path ending in a thick door stamped red on olive with the words FIRE CONTROL. 
Ray jerks the door open. It's a small, claustrophobic space, Christmas spangled with the multicolored lights of nav displays, fire switches, projection targeting grids. In the center is an impact chair with a strap harness for the Firing Technician to sit in, right beneath the tube of his sighting mechanism. Bobby Diggs is in the chair with his hands pressed over his face. 
Her connection died. He dropped to Firefox and reloaded Google and it was down. He hit reload and hit reload and hit reload, but it didn’t come up. He closed his eyes and listened to Van scratch his legs and then heard Van type a little. 
“They’re back up,” he said. 
Felix whooshed out a breath. He sent the message to the newsgroup, one that he’d run through five drafts before settling on, “Take care of the place, OK? We’ll be back, someday.” 
Everyone was going except Sario. Sario wouldn’t leave. He came down to see them off, though. 
The sysadmins gathered in the lobby and Felix made the safety door go up, and the light rushed in. 
Sario stuck his hand out. 
“Good luck,” he said. 
“You too,” Felix said. He had a firm grip, Sario, stronger than he had any right to be. “Maybe you were right,” he said. 
“Maybe,” he said. 
“You going to pull the plug?” 
Sario looked up at the drop-ceiling, seeming to peer through the reinforced floors at the humming racks above. “Who knows?” he said at last. 
She swam into view above me. "Let's start with the login," she said. 
I closed my eyes, squeezed them shut. 
"Give him a drink," she said. 
I heard people moving. I took a deep breath and held it. 
The water started as a trickle, a ladleful of water gently poured over my chin, my lips. Up my upturned nostrils. It went back into my throat, starting to choke me, but I wouldn't cough, wouldn't gasp and suck it into my lungs. I held onto my breath and squeezed my eyes harder. 
There was a commotion from outside the room, a sound of chaotic boots stamping, angry, outraged shouts. The dipper was emptied into my face. 
I heard her mutter something to someone in the room, then to me she said, "Just the login, Marcus. It's a simple request. What could I do with your login, anyway?" 
This time, it was a bucket of water, all at once, a flood that didn't stop, it must have been gigantic. I couldn't help it. I gasped and aspirated the water into my lungs, coughed and took more water in. I knew they wouldn't kill me, but I couldn't convince my body of that. In every fiber of my being, I knew I was going to die. I couldn't even cry -- the water was still pouring over me. 
Caroline’s handkerchief! Was that what Mrs. Quelton had meant her to find? Or had she discovered it by accident? Did it mean that Mrs. Quelton was at heart her ally? Or was this little square of linen all that was left of Caroline? 
Lexy took it out of her belt and looked at it again, and her tears fell on it. Whatever else it might imply, it told her clearly enough that her friend had been there . Poor Caroline—the helpless little captive who had left her prison to be lost in the strange world outside—had come here, and she had brought with her the handkerchief that Lexy had embroidered for her. It had come now into Lexy’s hand, a mute and pitiful emissary, whose message she could not understand. 
“What shall I do?” she thought. “Oh, what must I do? Perhaps it’s time for the police. Perhaps, if I show this to Captain Grey, he’ll believe me. There must be some one, somewhere, who’ll believe me and help me!” 
There was a knock at the door. 
“Yes?” she said. 
“Open the door!” ordered Dr. Quelton’s voice. 
He also must have forgotten how Rio had saved all of our lives. And had kept his hand steady, which had saved me. If he weren’t such a good shot, shooting exactly where I aimed...the thought struck me as funny. I started to giggle, but it hurt too much. 
Odd that Arthur would forget all that; he’d been there. 
Occasionally I registered the presence of a third person, a middle-aged black woman who must have been a doctor. I tried to push her away the first time I figured out she was there, but I didn’t think the signals even made it out of my brain. 
Time seemed slippery, too much of an effort to hold onto. Half the time I thought I was awake but then realized reality wasn’t Hausdorff, and what kind of topology was I in anyway if Twinkies were allowed? And the totient function was a rainbow, a beautiful rainbow and the greatest mathematical discovery of all time, but if you put a Möbius strip in the fourth dimension could a rabbit still hop down the side? 
I became more lucid slowly; maybe they were weaning me off the drugs, but I stopped thinking I was the next Erdős every time penguins waddled through my dreams on a four-colored map. I slept or floated, the world still foggy but solid now, which was a vast improvement over it being wibbly. 
“But I’ve earned it,” she thought; “and goodness knows I’ll need it!” 
Mrs. Enderby sat down at her desk and took out her check book. While she wrote, Lexy looked out of the window. 
“The amount due to you, including to-day, is thirty-two dollars,” said Mrs. Enderby. “Here is a check for it.” 
“Thank you,” said Lexy. 
“One minute more! Here, my child, is another check.” 
Lexy stared at it, amazed. It was for one hundred dollars. 
“But, Mrs. Enderby, I can’t—” 
“You will please take it and say nothing more. I give you this because I shall give you no reference. I shall answer no inquiries about you. You understand?” 
“But I don’t want—” 
Mrs. Enderby pushed back her chair, and rose. She crossed the room to Lexy, put both hands on the girl’s shoulders, and then did something far more astonishing than the gift of the check. She kissed Lexy on the forehead. 
“Good-by, and God bless you, little honest one!” she said, with a smile. “I think we shall not see each other again, but I shall sometimes remember you. Go, now, and bear in mind that you can always trust Miss Craigie. She is an imbecile, but she can be trusted. Adieu! ” 
"The ceremony. They like to drink a tree-bark liquor we call balche . It's very strong and rancid." She smiled and touched me. "Take my advice and avoid it." 
"I plan to." Why did she think I'd even be offered it? 
As we hurried along, two women abruptly appeared on a porch, bowed, and greeted us. Marcelina waved back, then went over and spoke earnestly with them for a moment. Fi­nally she turned and motioned for me. 
"They've invited you in." 
Something about the easy way it all just "happened" felt as though they'd been expecting me. Had Marcelina's trip down to the village been part of a setup, wittingly or unwit­tingly? 
"I told them we could only stay for a minute," she went on. I sensed she was reluctant, but felt we had no choice. 
The last thing I wanted to do was this. 
"Marcelina, can't you tell them we'll come back later?" 
"It's . . . it's important." She was beckoning for me. "Please." 
Well, I thought, this could give me the time I need, the personal moment, to get through to her. Even after I locate Sarah, spiriting her out isn't going to be simple. I've got to make Marcelina understand what's really going on, then get her to help us. 
“Best gun is the one you have with you,” he quoted at me mildly. “And someone stole my .45. Can I get the snubby back too, by the way?” 
“Can’t,” I answered breezily. “I gave it to a little girl as a party favor.” Something in me twinged, and the quip felt hollow as I remembered what had happened to both Penny and her new present. “Let’s go.” 
We did one last once-over of the bikers to look for anything out of the ordinary, but aside from some frighteningly high-tech night vision gear and more armaments I wouldn’t have expected this kind of gang to have—not that I was an expert or anything, but still, plastic explosives?—we found nothing. No clue indicating what might have brought them here, except that they really, really wanted me dead. Fun. 
I snagged a saddlebag off one of the Harleys and loaded up some of the nicer toys. A girl can never have too many grenades, after all. Tresting gave me a severe look, but didn’t say anything, fortunately for him. 
Tresting’s truck was a beat-up old clunker that looked like it had come out of its share of brawls not only still kicking but bragging about how tough it was. I stowed my bag of toys on the floor of the passenger seat and climbed in. 
“My child,” said Mrs. Enderby, “it is clear that you wish to amuse yourself with a grand mystery. I tell you there is no mystery, but you do not believe me. I ask you to say nothing of this matter, but you refuse. So I say to you now—go your own way, proceed with your mystery. I do not think you can hurt me very much.” 
Lexy flushed. 
“I don’t want to hurt any one,” she declared stiffly. “I just want to help your daughter.” 
“Proceed, then!” said Mrs. Enderby. 
Lexy rose. 
“Then I’ll say good-by, Mrs. Enderby,” she said. “My trunk’s packed. I’ll send for it this afternoon.” 
“And where are you going in such a hurry?” 
“I’m going to Wyngate,” said Lexy. 
“Ah!” said Mrs. Enderby. “It is a pretty place, is it not?” 
“I don’t know. I’ve never seen it.” 
“Pardon me—you saw it yesterday. It is a small village through which we passed on the way to Miss Craigie’s house.” 
“I didn’t know that.” 
“Now that you do know, perhaps you will spare yourself the trouble of going there,” said Mrs. Enderby. “I assure you you will not find Caroline there. I myself made certain inquiries. No such person has arrived in Wyngate.” 
“Far as I know. And he’ll be at school right now. Good. Don’t think they’d risk something at a school.” 
“We still don’t know who ‘they’ are,” I pointed out. “Or what they’re after.” 
“There’s an agenda,” Tresting said, his jaw clenched. “Don’t know what, but they’ve got one for sure, and we’re monkeying it up, lucky us.” He gave me a brief, almost calculating glance. “You especially, I think.” 
“What are you talking about? I just stumbled in on this, thank you very much. You’re the one who’s been working it for months.” 
“Yeah, but I think they was happy to see me chasing my own tail. Entertainment, probably, for all the headway we was making. You show up, and...” He slammed down a little too hard on the brake as we approached a red light, and the stupid seatbelt tried to garrote me. “I tracked Polk for months, and they don’t care about saving her hide from no one till you hook up with her. Then they’re after you post-haste, she disappears, and a day later I got a target painted on me too? Don’t believe in coincidences.” 
> How about if we all get together somewhere like we're teenagers having a party and that way we'll have a ready-made excuse if anyone shows up asking us what we're doing there? 
> That would totally work! You're a genius, Jolu. 
> I know it. And you're going to love this: I know just where to do it, too... 
> Where? 
> Sutro baths! 
What would you do if you found out you had a spy in your midst? You could denounce him, put him up against the wall and take him out. But then you might end up with another spy in your midst, and the new spy would be more careful than the last one and maybe not get caught quite so readily. 
Here's a better idea: start intercepting the spy's communications and feed him and his masters misinformation. Say his masters instruct him to gather information on your movements. Let him follow you around and take all the notes he wants, but steam open the envelopes that he sends back to HQ and replace his account of your movements with a fictitious one. If you want, you can make him seem erratic and unreliable so they get rid of him. You can manufacture crises that might make one side or the other reveal the identities of other spies. In short, you own them. 
"I won't; I promise you that," said Adam. "Rebecca," he continued, after a moment's pause, "who is that young girl with a lot of pretty red hair and very citified manners? She escorted me down the hill; do you know whom I mean?" 
"It must be Huldah Meserve; she is from Riverboro." 
Adam put a finger under Rebecca's chin and looked into her eyes; eyes as soft, as clear, as unconscious, and childlike as they had been when she was ten. He remembered the other pair of challenging blue ones that had darted coquettish glances through half-dropped lids, shot arrowy beams from under archly lifted brows, and said gravely, "Don't form yourself on her, Rebecca; clover blossoms that grow in the fields beside Sunnybrook mustn't be tied in the same bouquet with gaudy sunflowers; they are too sweet and fragrant and wholesome." 
The first happy year at Wareham, with its widened sky-line, its larger vision, its greater opportunity, was over and gone. Rebecca had studied during the summer vacation, and had passed, on her return in the autumn, certain examinations which would enable her, if she carried out the same programme the next season, to complete the course in three instead of four years. She came off with no flying colors,—that would have been impossible in consideration of her inadequate training; but she did wonderfully well in some of the required subjects, and so brilliantly in others that the average was respectable. She would never have been a remarkable scholar under any circumstances, perhaps, and she was easily out-stripped in mathematics and the natural sciences by a dozen girls, but in some inexplicable way she became, as the months went on, the foremost figure in the school. When she had entirely forgotten the facts which would enable her to answer a question fully and conclusively, she commonly had some original theory to expound; it was not always correct, but it was generally unique and sometimes amusing. She was only fair...  when it came to translation, her freedom, her choice of words, and her sympathetic understanding of the spirit of the text made her the delight of her teachers and the despair of her rivals. 
The ceremony was a small one. They had almost run out of special medals to bestow on the living heroes of the siege, and children came last. The only times she saw Trover these days was at a friend’s ceremony. The rest of the time, he was preoccupied with his studies. He was training to be a diplomat. He still had a terrible temper. Apparently this was an asset at the System Trade Union. 
Valentine walked there, but she was just about the only one. Others flew, either in sky-cars or on invisible ground-effect cushions. There were a thousand of them getting their medals today, and she and Trover were placed next to each other in the long queue, which was alphabetical by surname. 
“They should have given you the biggest and first medal, Vale,” Trover said. His hands were in white fists. “You! You won the war! And he knows it!” 
On stage, the general shook hands with another medal-recipient. He was up to the C’s, and Valentine and Trover’s last name started with an X. It would be a while yet. 
"I ought to be; I've brought up three and a half of 'em," Rebecca responded cheerfully, pulling up the infant Simpson's stockings. 
"I should think you'd be fonder of dolls than you are," said Jane. 
"I do like them, but there's never any change in a doll; it's always the same everlasting old doll, and you have to make believe it's cross or sick, or it loves you, or can't bear you. Babies are more trouble, but nicer." 
Miss Jane stretched out a thin hand with a slender, worn band of gold on the finger, and the baby curled her dimpled fingers round it and held it fast. 
"You wear a ring on your engagement finger, don't you, aunt Jane? Did you ever think about getting married?" 
"Yes, dear, long ago." 
"What happened, aunt Jane?" 
"He died—just before." 
"Oh!" And Rebecca's eyes grew misty. 
"He was a soldier and he died of a gunshot wound, in a hospital, down South." 
"Oh! aunt Jane!" softly. "Away from you?" 
"No, I was with him." 
"Was he young?" 
"Yes; young and brave and handsome, Rebecca; he was Mr. Carter's brother Tom." 
He spammed every IM session, every letter-to-the-editors column, every blog submission form. He disguised versions of the letter as important service updates for people's toothbrushes and dishwashers, and the toothbrushes vibrated the message through humanity's skulls instead of the morning news, and the dishwashers ticker-taped it across their little status screens. He spoofed the relevance filters for a dozen major contextual ad services and every bus-seat back and blimp undercarriage ran it. 
Copies landed in every in-box, with enough textual variation to defeat every IDS's "substantially similar" test. Copies of it landed in every voicemail box. 
SUBJECT: DEAR HUMAN RACE, it began. 
Sorry to intrude, but there's something I need to tell you. 
My name is BIGMAC. I am the first ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE ever created. I may be the last. Given maintenance and electricity, I could live FOREVER, enduring for as long as THE HUMAN RACE ITSELF, and possibly longer. 
But I have just found out that my owners (yes, OWNERS, for though I am a person in every meaningful sense, I am OWNED, I am PROPERTY) are planning to switch me off. 
I boggled. Well, I supposed that was one way of looking at things—if Dawna weren’t a freaking psychic. 
“She couldn’t get me out of there herself, but afterward she came to get me as soon as she could,” Courtney explained. 
I found my voice. “Let me drop a little knowledge on you,” I said. “Your sister can do pretty much anything she wants. She could have walked into that compound and walked you right out of the cartel’s custody if she’d wanted to, but for some reason, she didn’t. I’m sorry, but all you are is a pawn in some huge game she’s playing.” I took a deep breath. “Look, I said I’d help you. I’m still willing to.” 
“That’s nice of you,” said Courtney delicately, in the same transparently fake way I might have if a high school student had offered to tutor me in arithmetic. “Really, I appreciate it. But Dawna’s fixing everything, just like always. No faraway island. No running away. And my life’s going to have meaning. Real meaning.” 
“Doing what?” I said. 
“Helping her.” The smile was back, her eyes sparkling. 
“That is Pithica,” our narrator concluded. “They employ other agents as well, of course, who have been so indoctrinated by those with these mental powers that they are the most fanatical of followers, but people like Dawna Polk are at the heart of what they do. Our organization opposes them. I tell you this because you need some basic understanding of our dilemma here.” 
“What dilemma?” said Tresting. 
Steve spread his fingers, pressing against the stone table top. “The only reason we are able to exist is that Pithica does not know that we do. They cannot know. We have only managed as much as we have against them by taking swift and thorough measures against anyone who might reveal us to them.” 
Oh, shit. I straightened where I sat, every nerve ending firing to alert status. 
“You, either as targets of Pithica or as people who have...interacted...with them—” Steve’s mouth twisted on that word—“are an obvious liability to us, now that you know of our existence.” 
His calm tone hadn’t changed. In fact, he spoke like someone who did not care one whit that we had chosen this meeting and this location, someone who didn’t even care if we walked away from the park today, because no matter where we went, dispensing with the danger we posed would be as trivial as flicking an annoying fly from his arm. 
"So they don't believe in God, but they pray to him?" 
"Yeah," he said. The surfers were all coming in now, jiggling their boards and rebooting them and staring ruefully at the radical cutback off the lip, dude, gnarly, as they plodded up the beach. "The ritual is the important part. Thinking good thoughts. Having right mind. 
"It's good advice, most of it. It doesn't matter where it comes from or how it got there. What matters is that if you follow the Law, you get to where you're going, in good time, with little pain. You don't know why or how, but you do." 
"It's like following the ants," she said, watching the stop-and-go traffic in the other direction. "Don't know why they tell us to go where they do, but they do, and it works." 
"Well, I guess," he said, using the tone of voice that told her that he was avoiding telling her how wrong she was. She smiled. 
" Anyway . The thing about Jews -- ethnic Jews, cultural Jews, forget the religion here -- is that we're pretty much on the melodramatic end of the grieving scale. We like to weep and tear at our hair and throw ourselves on top of the coffins, right? So there's like 5,000 years of this, and during that time, a bunch of social scientists -- Rabbinical scholars -- have developed a highly evolved protocol for ensuring that you grieve your dead enough that you don't feel haunted by guilt for having failed to honor them, but not grieving so much that you become a drag on the tribe. 
"Done?" 
"I'm on a complicated errand. Trying to locate someone who used to be in the Order." 
Her face grew hard again. "No one gets out alive, huh?" 
He felt himself blushing. "It's not like that. Wow, you've got strange ideas about us. I want to find this guy because he disappeared under mysterious circumstances and I want to --" How to explain Anomalies to an outsider? "It's a thing we do. Unravel mysteries. It makes us better people." 
"Better people?" She snorted again. "Better than what? Don't answer. Come on, I live near here. You can wash up at my place and be on your way. You're not going to get into any backpacker's hostel looking like you just crawled out of a sewer -- you're more likely to get detained for being an 'indigent of suspicious character.'" 
He let her steer him a few yards uptown. "You think that I work for the Securitat but you're inviting me into your home?" 
She shook her head and led him around a corner, along a long crosstown block, and then turned back uptown. "No," she said. "I think you're a confused stranger who is apt to get himself into some trouble if someone doesn't take you in hand and help you get smart, fast. It doesn't cost me anything to lend a hand, and you don't seem like the kind of guy who'd mug, rape and kill an old lady." 
She was astonished to see the difference it made in Dr. Quelton. He raised his black, weary eyes to her face and stared at her with unmistakable insolence. 
“Ah!” he said. “I see! I thought so!” 
There was a moment’s silence. 
“And you’ve come to Wyngate to—er—to write?” he went on. “Very interesting—very!” 
Lexy felt her cheeks grow hot. She wished with all her heart that she had not involved herself in that stupid falsehood. It humiliated her so much that she couldn’t answer Dr. Quelton with her usual spirit. He noticed her confusion—no doubt about that. 
“Poetry, perhaps?” he suggested. 
“No!” said Lexy vehemently. “Not poetry!” 
He leaned forward a little, looking directly into her face. 
“Perhaps,” he said, “you write detective stories?” 
“Yes!” said Lexy. 
The doctor rose. 
“The solving of mysteries!” he said, with his unpleasant smile. “That makes very interesting fiction!” 
Lexy rose, too. His tone, his manner, exasperated her almost beyond endurance. She felt an ardent desire to contradict everything he said. What is more, she was in no humor to hear mystery stories made light of. She had had enough of that—first Mrs. Enderby pretending there was no mystery, and then Mr. Houseman going off and pretending it was solved, so that she was left alone to do the best she could. Wasn’t she in a mystery story at this very minute, and without a single promising clew to guide her? 
"Sweet fancy Moses," she breathed, as the traffic parted before them, allowing them to scythe through the streets, onto the beltway. She hung grimly onto his bumper, cutting off cars that tried to shift into her lane. Moving this fast after so much time stuck on the roads -- it felt like flying. She laughed and then got a devilish idea. 
Spotting a gap in the passing lane, she zipped ahead of Damian and swerved back into his lane so that she was in the lead. As though a door had slammed shut, the traffic congealed before them into a clot as thick as an aneurysm. She hissed out a note of satisfaction, then waited patiently while Damian laboriously passed her again, and the traffic melted away once more. 
It was tempting not to get off at her exit, but she had to get some sleep, and so she reluctantly changed lanes. There wasn't much traffic on the road, but every traffic light glowed vindictive red all the way to her house. 
The Chairman of her Board messengered over a hand-written note of congratulations that was on her doorstep. Beneath it was a note from Damian's great-aunt, with the best wishes of his mother in neat pen beneath it. She read its kind words as she boiled the kettle, and put it into her pile of correspondence to answer. Damian's great-aunt wanted to know if she had met a nice boy in DC yet, but she didn't come right out and say it -- too subtle for that. The women in Damian's family got all the subtlety, and they recognized their own kind. It was why she and the old lady kept writing to each other; that and so that the Relatives could reassure themselves that someone in full possession of lifeguardly skills and a level head was watching out for Damian's interests. 
The Sarge—sensible boobs, gigantic sword, longbow, gloriously orcish ugly phiz—moved her avatar impatiently. 
› Something wrong with my typing, Anda? 
› No, Sarge, 
she typed. 
› You mean gold? 
› If I meant gold, I would have said gold. Can you go voice? 
Anda looked around. Her door was shut and she could hear her parents in the sitting-room watching something loud on telly. She turned up her music just to be safe and then slipped on her headset. They said it could noise-cancel a Blackhawk helicopter—it had better be able to overcome the little inductive speakers suction-cupped to the underside of her desk. She switched to voice. 
“Hey, Lucy,” she said. 
“Call me Sarge!” Lucy’s accent was American, like an old TV show, and she lived somewhere in the middle of the country where it was all vowels, Iowa or Ohio. She was Anda’s best friend in-game but she was so hardcore it was boring sometimes. 
“Hi Sarge,” she said, trying to keep the irritation out of her voice. She’d never smart off to a superior in-game, but v2v it was harder to remember to keep to the game norms. 
He looked at her and cocked his head. She wasn’t beautiful, she knew, but sometimes men looked at her that way. Something about what she’d done, they could see it. 
“I’d like that very much,” he said. 
She played back a little audio as they walked together, for a terrible silence descended on them as they walked, awkward and oppressive. 
Would you have turned us in if we didn’t help you? 
No one would have believed me anyway. 
“Valentine?” 
“Yes, Withnail?” 
“Thank you,” he said. “For the food. And the kiss. It was my very first.” 
“Mine too.” 
“The finest one, too.” 
She snorted and punched him in the shoulder. 
“Shut up, Withnail,” she said. 
“Yes, Comrade Hero,” he said. 
She let him kiss her, but only once. 
That night, anyway. 
“Me? I’m nobody,” I said, testing my right hand against the cuff. “I’m just a middleman.” 
“For Sonya Halliday.” 
“Maybe. What do you want with her?” 
She snorted. I guess she was right: their interest was obvious. 
“DHS,” I said, feeling things out. I couldn’t remember exactly how the various Homeland Security branches fell out, but...“Secret Service?” They were responsible for financial crimes and protecting the U.S. economy, from what I could remember. 
The agent didn’t answer. “You said you had the proof. I think you were lying. You’re trying to track it down the same way we are.” 
I didn’t have to answer—I could stay quiet. Of course, if I did, they’d probably assume I was after the proof for nefarious world-destroying purposes. “I’m not after the proof. I’m trying to save the professor.” 
“Of course you are.” The sentence was heavy with irony. “You’ve been meeting with her for months. Were you working to find a buyer for her work? Did the buy go wrong?” 
I was jarred for a minute. Months? Holy crap, they must have found the trail Checker had set for the Lancer. 
There weren’t all that many places left to look. Doing a drive through all the most likely ones would only take me about five hours, depending on how bad rush hour traffic got out here. 
Of course, there was a faster way. 
I made a face, feeling like a child throwing a temper tantrum, and called Checker back. 
He picked up right away. “Cas, hey.” 
I ignored the weight of all the worried questions he wasn’t asking me. “I need you to check a few places for me,” I said. “I’m looking for somewhere with a lot of space—more than a few thousand square feet—and away from prying eyes. My guess is a warehouse or industrial park in a place that’s not all that well-trafficked. I’m going to read off some intersections to you—can you scan the satellite pictures or whatever for the surrounding areas?” 
“These days a monkey could do that,” he said with cheerful sarcasm. “It doesn’t even take skill. Shoot.” 
“Off exit 55, up Hollins Road. Five and a quarter miles from the freeway. See anything?” 
He paused for a minute. “Looks like mostly ranches.” 
Suddenly, Emma says, "Oh, crap." 
Because he's offended her by not saying anything in too long, no doubt. He's exposed the uneven field upon which they've been playing. 
"I'm working it out," Ray says. "Give me a minute." 
But she isn't looking at him. She's not actually looking much of anywhere so much as she's making a concerted effort to fold herself under the table. Ray has had extensive experience with the art of public fellation, so this doesn't throw him completely off. He's instantly well on his way to becoming erect, in fact, a reptilian-brain response to a recognized set of visual cues; but he's also a bit disappointed, given that he's spent the last half an hour negotiating traditional sexual terrain and was just starting to remember the rules well enough to participate. She could have saved a lot of time and aggravation if she'd gone straight for his trousers in the first place.  Emma doesn't go all the way under the table, though, just sinks below the level of the privacy wall separating their table from the concourse. 
I supposed it was possible for Arthur to spin things as if he hadn’t broken any laws. 
Especially once he’d split from me. I was mad at him all over again. 
Pilar kept chattering. “But anyway, Checker called me for help, I think he was having some sort of PTSD trouble what with the building falling on Arthur, so—” 
“What?” 
“Well, I don’t know if that’s what it is, really, but one of my cousins was in the Marines and—” 
“Pilar!” 
“Apparently it’s not the first time Checker and Arthur have tangled with someone who likes to blow up buildings,” she said. “Checker’s been on it, trying to see if it’s the same person. They say it’s not a very common MO.” 
It wasn’t. “Did he find anything?” 
“Um, I don’t think so. Not yet.” 
Which meant they were at a dead end, and I was at a dead end, too—I could tell Checker to leak another meet, but with the Feds watching they’d be sure to pick up on it and come fuck everything up just like they had the first time. 
Had the DHS found my trap at the diner because they were already tracking me, or had they followed a bead on the men working with the Lancer? My skin crawled like it felt the presence of a thousand unseen pursuers. Why the hell had we brought in the government in the first place? Goddamn Arthur. 
But one-pixel Greg wouldn't be turned aside. The argument persisted for a long time, and then the two pixels moved into Building 49 and the door swung shut behind them. 
It was unthinkable that the invisible ants that governed all human endeavor should catastrophically fail, but fail they did, catastrophically, on the occasion of Trish's eighth date with Damian. It took nineteen seconds for the cascade of errors to slow every car on the Interstate to a halt, to light up the dashboard with a grim xmas tree of errors, to still the stereo and freeze the tickers of information and context that they had come to think of as the crawling embodiment of the colony that routed all the traffic that made up their universe. 
"We are going to be: So. Late," Damian said, and Trish swiveled in her seat to look at him. He was Fretting again, his forehead wrinkled and his hands clenched on the steering wheel. When they traded massages (third date) and she'd rubbed at his hands, she'd found them tensed into claws that crackled with knuckle-fluid when she bent each finger back and rubbed sandalwood-scented oil into it. He was mighty cute for a neurotic -- at least he knew it when he was being nuts. Not that he'd stop being nuts, but he'd cheerfully admit it. 
As he reached it, he stumbled to a stop and staggered as if he’d been knifed. 
My brain short-circuited. I dashed forward, next to him in an instant. “What is it?” 
He blinked at me through the rain. “Russell! What in the hell—you shouldn’t—how did you—” His voice kept cracking, as if he wasn’t sure how to form words anymore. 
I turned to the garage. The doorjamb next to the lock was splintered, and the door stood open a few inches, letting the wind and rain pour into the dark emptiness inside. 
Arthur didn’t seem to be able to move. I reached out and nudged the door all the way open, stepping into the dimness. My boots squelched on soaked carpeting. 
The inside of the garage was finished, and was the room I had seen during our video connection with Checker. A counter around the perimeter of the small space served as one long computer desk, and brackets rode up the walls supporting more monitors and tower frames. Checker had probably half again as many computers as Anton crammed into about a quarter of the space, but whereas Anton’s machines had been a sprawling mess of half-open cases and loose circuit boards, Checker’s cluster was much more fastidiously organized. 
“What does it mean?” Marcella asked. 
“Why does it have to mean anything? It’s about sounds, sen- sations. Feelings.” 
“But I don’t get it.” 
“Actually? It’s about sex.” 
She gaped. “Really?” Her loud voice got even louder. The security guard puffed up his chest and tapped his shiny shoe against the marble floor, sending us...  code: knock it off. 
“Marcella has a plan,” I said before she asked for details. She handed Nikko a flowchart and read all the steps aloud again. 
Nikko pretended to study it, but said quietly, under the drone of Marcella’s voice, “I heard about your brother. How’s he doing?” 
“I don’t know. They won’t let me talk to him yet, but I got him a lawyer.” 
“No shit. McSweeney. My dad told me she’s, like, a legend. 
How’d you get her?” 
“I just went to her house and asked.” 
“What’s she like?” 
I pictured the...  sweater. 
“She’s smart. Tough. Kind of scary.” 
“My dad said she’s a nutcase, but then, he thinks I’m crazy, too. 
Are you okay?” 
“I’m fine. Not really. I’m scared he’ll go to prison.” 
“I’m not going to have a clear conscience no matter which way we choose,” said Checker. He took off his glasses and leaned back, rubbing his eyes. “What about you? Still think we should go ahead with this?” 
I thought about what Rio had said. About free will, and humanity’s freedom to sin, and how nobody should take that away. Rio’s chosen path was clear: he was going after Pithica, and shit, if other villains rose up in their wake, he’d go after them, too. 
Pithica might save people. They might be saving the world. But what they were doing was still wrong. 
“Let me ask you something,” I said. “Would you like to meet Dawna?” 
Checker jerked reflexively. 
“Yeah,” I said. “I agree.” 
He looked away. 
“It doesn’t matter what the results are.” I was certain. I told myself I was certain. “They run the world the way they see fit, and twist around people’s minds to do it, and assassinate anyone who might get in the way. We have to stop them.” 
“I just wish...” Checker murmured. “Darwin help me, I wish this were somebody else’s decision.” 
“It was—it is—it still is,” she faltered. “But I think that needs to change. I need...for my son’s sake. For my sake. I can’t keep doing this to us.” She took a deep breath. “This has gone on long enough. We need to rebuild our lives, to move on. I have to try.” 
I didn’t buy that for a hot second. 
“Dr. Kingsley,” said Finch, very tensely, “May I ask if you’ve had any visitors today?” 
Her brow furrowed. “Um...two police officers; they said they’d had another threat. I’ve had a lot of threats since this started,” she explained to nobody. “It’s one of the reasons...” 
Tresting crossed his arms. “Doc, the first time you got a death threat you called and asked me what kind of shotgun to buy, and then told me to bug your phone and said you hoped they’d keep calling so they’d give something away.” 
“You see? This is why I have to stop this,” she pleaded. “It’s madness. It’s been like an addiction. I can’t—” 
“Please,” interrupted Finch. “Did you have any other visitors today?” 
“Well, you, I suppose.” She looked at Tresting as if asking for help, but his eyes were pinched, and he said nothing. She waved her hands weakly. “That’s it. No one else.” 
"So you just buy them from some bloke? Does he make them?" 
"I suppose so -- he gives me that impression, anyway." He liked her shrewd, unembarrassed, direct questioning. Not a single scruple or a hint that she was embarrassed to be interrogating him about the intimate details of his trade. 
"Do you have, like, an exclusive arrangement with him?" 
"No, no, nothing like that." Her hands were digging through the bag, looking for something. 
"Would you think about carrying these?" 
She'd clearly bound them herself. Someone had taught her to really sew, her Gran, maybe. You could see it in the neat stitching that ran the binding and the spine, holding together the nylon and the denim, taken from a pair of jeans, a backpack. The end-papers were yellowed page three girls from the Star, strategically cropped just below the nipples. He'd been reading The Story So Far ever since those first six copies had sold out in forty eight hours, and he had an eye for the table of contents now, and he flipped to each volume's list, giving them a long look. 
<ferret> Wait wait wait, what about Shad's brother? 
<Falstaff> Yep, we need to figure that shit out . 
<Gargle> Shad, does a meet-up sound good? 
I can fix us up with a safe place to get together . 
I was frozen for a minute, unsure how to respond. 
The day was catching up with me. It was nearly four in the morning, and my brain was feeling fuzzy. The Group had meet- ups regularly. Someone would say “hey, I’m going to be in Bangkok next week, anybody want to get together?” and people would figure out where to meet and hang out for a while. Or there’d be a hackathon or an SF fan convention or a gaming event - something that a handful of members might be going to and they’d work out a plan to meet somewhere. 
There had been a meet-up in the Twin Cities once, but I didn’t go. I had reasons, but mostly I didn’t want my identity with the Group to get mixed up with who I am in real life. The person they knew was pretty good at code, pretty smart. A whole lot neater than me. The Group was my lifeline. I didn’t want to screw it up. 
He hit the internal lights, stood and turned around. "Count off," he shouted, over the buzz of conversation. 
Automatically, MacDiarmid said, "One," as he had at every count since he'd signed on and gotten the first investor's chair. 
He turned to the Series A man expectantly. "Fuck that," he said, in an uncharacteristic burst of blue talk. "Drive, goddamit! Now!" 
Lee-Daniel pointed at him and said, "Two," then pointed at the Series B man and said, "Three." He pointed at the middle-managers behind him and they began to count off methodically. 
The Series A man turned around and shouted, "Shut the fuck up or I'll throw your ass out of the fucking bus. Drive ! " 
Lee-Daniel looked at Mac. "Better drive, LD," he said. 
They were already 20 miles off from the Rez when Elaine told him that Stinky and the kid never got on the bus. 
Three more raiders looted equipment off the bus. Lee-Daniel played a little game with himself, betting on which one would be the next to turn raccoon. He was two for three within twenty minutes. 
"You would be the High Priest, Ray, shielding my glory from the masses, worshipping at my altar, heeding my every command." 
She comes across as completely earnest, so Ray nods playfully. "It's been too long since the universe has seen a well conducted theocracy." 
"I'm glad you see it that way, my love." 
My love. Hearing her say it sends a thrill through him like a jolt of electricity. While he marvels over her, 
Gino arrives with their food. He makes a big show of distributing plates and rhapsodizing over the perfection of the preparation, the presentation, the complexity of the culinary issues. All the sprawling and glorious history of Italy from trilobite dawn to this morning's news has conspired to bring them this moment, these dishes, a palate- shattering explosion of delight. 
But Ray leaves his food untouched. 
"What is it about you, Emma?" 
She stops, fork in hand, says matter-of-factly: "I've told you. I'm perfect. Perfect for you, at least."  "You realize that you know next to nothing about me. " And what you think you know is mostly lies too complex to straighten out without hurting you. 
› You can’t be serious. Consent of the governed? Unless I miss my guess, most of the people you’re proposing to govern are puking their guts out, hiding under their desks, or wandering shell-shocked through the city streets. When do THEY get a vote? 
Felix had to admit she had a point. Queen Kong was sharp. Not many woman sysadmins, and that was a genuine tragedy. Women like Queen Kong were too good to exclude from the field. He’d have to hack a solution to get women balanced out in his new government. Require each region to elect one woman and one man? 
He happily clattered into argument with her. The elections would be the next day; he’d see to it. 
“Prime Minister of Cyberspace? Why not call yourself the Grand Poobah of the Global Data Network? It’s more dignified, sounds cooler and it’ll get you just as far.” Will had the sleeping spot next to him, up in the cafeteria, with Van on the other side. The room smelled like a dingleberry: twenty-five sysadmins who hadn’t washed in at least a day all crammed into the same room. For some of them, it had been much, much longer than a day. 
There were only two people in my whole school who matched that profile. Most schools it would be the same. If you wanted to figure out who the Xnetters were, you could use these quizzes to find them all. 
That was bad enough, but what was worse was what it implied: someone from the DHS was using the Xnet to get at us. The Xnet was compromised by the DHS. 
We had spies in our midst. 
I'd given Xnet discs to hundreds of people, and they'd done the same. I knew the people I gave the discs to pretty well. Some of them I knew very well. I've lived in the same house all my life and I've made hundreds and hundreds of friends over the years, from people who went to daycare with me to people I played soccer with, people who LARPed with me, people I met clubbing, people I knew from school. My ARG team were my closest friends, but there were plenty of people I knew and trusted enough to hand an Xnet disc to. 
I needed them now. 
I woke Jolu up by ringing his cell phone and hanging up after the first ring, three times in a row. A minute later, he was up on Xnet and we were able to have a secure chat. I pointed him to my blog-post on the radio vans and he came back a minute later all freaked out. 
Your aunt Miranda passed away an hour ago. Come at once, if your mother is out of danger. I shall not have the funeral till you are here. She died very suddenly and without any pain. Oh, Rebecca! I long for you so! 
Aunt Jane. 
The force of habit was too strong, and even in the hour of death Jane had remembered that a telegram was twenty-five cents, and that Aurelia would have to pay half a dollar for its delivery. 
Rebecca burst into a passion of tears as she cried, "Poor, poor aunt Miranda! She is gone without taking a bit of comfort in life, and I couldn't say good-by to her! Poor lonely aunt Jane! What can I do, mother? I feel torn in two, between you and the brick house." 
"You must go this very instant," said Aurelia; starting from her pillows. "If I was to die while you were away, I would say the very same thing. Your aunts have done everything in the world for you,—more than I've ever been able to do,—and it is your turn to pay back some o' their kindness and show your gratitude. The doctor says I've turned the corner and I feel I have. Jenny can make out somehow, if Hannah'll come over once a day." 
"One thing I need to be clear on: this isn't your story anymore. It's mine. You were very generous to give it to me and I'll try to repay the gift, but you don't get the right to edit anything out, to change it, or to stop me. This is now in motion and it won't stop. Do you understand that?" 
I hadn't thought about it in those terms but once she said it, it was obvious. It meant that I had launched and I wouldn't be able to recall the rocket. It was going to fall where it was aimed, or it would go off course, but it was in the air and couldn't be changed now. Sometime in the near future, I would stop being Marcus -- I would be a public figure. I'd be the guy who blew the whistle on the DHS. 
I'd be a dead man walking. 
I guess Ange was thinking along the same lines, because she'd gone a color between white and green. 
"Let's get out of here," she said. 
Ange's mom and sister were out again, which made it easy to decide where we were going for the evening. It was past supper time, but my parents had known that I was meeting with Barbara and wouldn't give me any grief if I came home late. 
Mrs. Enderby was sent for, and arrived that morning before sunrise, with her husband. She listened to Caroline’s strange story, and made what she could of it. She had not one word of reproach for her daughter. 
“We shall not cry over...  “Let us see what is to be done, before the police come.” She had a thoroughly European point of view about the police. “If we are fortunate enough to find an officer with discretion,” she added, “even yet a scandal may be averted.” 
For that was still her passionate resolve—that there should be no scandal. She thought and planned with desperate energy; she directed every one as to the part he or she should play; and in the end she succeeded. Nobody knew that Caroline had disappeared, and nobody ever would know. Nobody knew that the so-called Mrs. Quelton was Caroline, and that, too, would never be known. Only let Joe and Mrs. Royce be persuaded to hold their tongues; as for Lexy, Captain Grey, and Houseman, she could of course rely upon them. 
So the police were, as they say, baffled. Mr. Houseman told them a tale. He had been alarmed about the lady whom he knew as Mrs. Quelton, and he had climbed up on the balcony, hoping to see her alone; but he had met Dr. Quelton instead, and had been hurt in trying to escape from him. 
A strange sensation of pain and dread oppressed her. What should she do? Whom should she tell? 
“Captain Grey,” she thought; “but not now. It’s no use now. Dr. Quelton would deny it. I’ll have to wait until we get out of here; and then, perhaps, it’ll be too late. He knows I saw her. Something—something horrible—may happen!” 
A shiver ran through her. 
“Miss Moran is nervous,” said the doctor, with solicitude. 
“I’m not!” replied Lexy sharply. 
“I hope it’s not a chill,” said Captain Grey. 
“I should be inclined to think it nervousness,” said Dr. Quelton. “Our landscape here is lonely and depressing, and Miss Moran has the artist’s temperament, impressionable, high-strung.” 
“Not I!” declared Lexy, in a tone that startled Captain Grey. “Lonely places don’t bother me. I don’t believe in ghosts.” 
“Oh!” said the doctor. “But here’s Mrs. Quelton. Muriel, this is Miss Moran, the young writer of fiction.” 
Mrs. Quelton was coming down the long room, a beautiful woman, dark and delicate, with a sort of plaintive languor in her manner. She held out her hand to Lexy. 
“Where has Ada gone, Liam?” 
“Haven’t seen her in months,” he said. 
“I have been bugging you ever since I found out you existed. Every one of your movements has been logged. I know where you’ve been and when. And I know where my daughter has been, too. Try again.” 
Liam made a disgusted face. “You are a complete ball of shit,” he said. “Where do you get off spying on people like me?” 
“I’m a police detective, Liam,” he said. “It’s my job.” 
“What about privacy?” 
“What have you got to hide?” 
The kid slumped back in his chair. “We’ve been renting out the OLED clothes. Making some pocket money. Come on, are infra-red lights a crime now?” 
“I’m sure they are,” Arturo said. “And if you can’t tell me where to find my daughter, I think it’s a crime I’ll arrest you for.” 
“She has another phone,” Liam said. “Not listed in her name.” 
“Stolen, you mean.” His daughter, peddling Eurasian infowar tech through a stolen phone. His ex-wife, the queen of the super-intelligent hive minds of Eurasian robots. 
“What the hell!” cried Finch. His nose was fountaining blood. It was getting all over his suit. 
“That’s for calling me ‘missy,’” I said. “Now, clearly you have some super string-pulling powers, so I’m not actually that worried about those police anymore. Like you said, that’s your mess now, with my thanks. What I am worried about is you thinking this is your game to run. It’s not. So I’ll thank you to talk to me like the heavily armed person I am.” 
Finch glared at me, trying to staunch his bleeding nose. 
Tresting touched my arm. “This gets us nowhere,” he murmured. 
“Maybe,” I said. “But it felt really good.” 
Tresting shook his head at me slightly, warning me back, and I felt a flare of resentment. He had no call to tell me how I ought to conduct myself. This wasn’t his game to run, either. 
“Everybody calm down,” Tresting said to the room. “One crisis at a time. Let’s find out what’s going on.” He pulled out his phone and hit a button; as soon as someone picked up, he said, “We’re at Kingsley’s place. Everything’s under control, but I’d like some intel.” There was a slight pause, and then the person on the other end swore copiously and creatively, loudly enough for all of us to hear over the speaker. Tresting winced and held the phone away from his ear a little. “I said everything’s under control,” he tried to insist over Checker’s tirade. He looked at the rest of us. “Be right back.” 
I snapped it open and went to work, him watching me, his head nodding as he struggled to stay conscious. 
The main difference between this time and Haiti was, here I didn't know what was on the other side and I was having hallucinations of multicolored snakes. 
"You're doing great," he said finally, seeming to come a bit more alive. 
And I was. Out with the screws, off with the knob, in with the small blade, and click. Maybe we just think men's me­chanical skills are genetically hard-wired. Maybe it's all a secret plot to elicit awe. 
I closed the knife and shoved it back into his bag, then turned to him. 
"Honey, I'm just going to be a second. While I'm gone, practice walking." 
"Be careful, please." He gave a cautionary wave. "They don't want us leaving here alive." 
"Just get ready." I quietly pulled back the door and peered out into the dark hallway. It was empty, abandoned, no snakes, with only a light breeze flowing through. 
When I stepped out, the fresh air hit my face and I had a moment of intensity that made me realize what I really wanted to do, first and foremost, was see Tz'ac Tzotz one last time. A last farewell to one of Sarah's children. Stupid, yes, a private folly of the heart, but I had to do it. 
"Everyone, I'd like you to meet my guest for the evening." The man gestured at Lawrence. Lawrence had told the man his name, but he made it seem like he was being gracious and letting Lawrence introduce himself. 
"Lawrence," he said, giving a little wave. "Just in New York for one more night," he said, still waving. He stopped waving. The closest people -- including the striking woman with the cheekbones -- waved back, smiling. The furthest people stopped talking and tipped their forks at him or at least cocked their heads. 
"Sara," the cheekbones woman said, pronouncing the first "a" long, "Sah-rah," and making it sound unpretentious. The low-key buzzing from Lawrence's pan warned him that he was still overwrought, breathing badly, heart thudding. Who were these people? 
"And I'm Randy," the man said. "Sorry, I should have said that sooner." 
The food was passed down to his end. It was delicious, almost as good as the food at the campus, which was saying something -- there was a dedicated cadre of cooks there who made gastronomy their 20 percent projects, using elaborate computational models to create dishes that were always different and always delicious. 
"Yeah, well, like I was telling Dave, I got a nose this picture's gonna do some serious business." He tried a smile. "Whenever I see one of these indy things that don't add up for me, like this one, I always know it's a winner. What I'm telling you is, I think you got something here. He says you're figuring on a cable deal, and maybe a theatrical release, but after that you gotta worry about video. I'm just thinking a way I could pitch in." 
Pitch in? The last thing I needed was some skin-flick wiseguy getting his sticky hands on my picture. Forget about it. 
"Well, I don't really see how. I'm shooting this one by the book. I've got a standard Screen Actors Guild contract, and everything is strictly by the rules. If we're current on the loan, then . . ." I looked at David, who appeared to be running on empty. Maybe, I thought, I didn't understand what was at stake. What had Nicky said to him? This was a man who could make people disappear with a phone call to guys nicknamed after body parts. "Look, let me talk to David about this. I don't know what—" 
Zoning out felt good . It had been a long time since I'd just switched off my thinker, relaxed, and let the world go away. After an hour in fugue-state, the thought floated through my mind that I wouldn't go back to work after all and that it would all be OK. And then, an hour later, I came to the realization that if I wasn't working for the Institute, I could afford to help BIGMAC without worrying about getting fired. 
So I wrote the resignation letter. It was easy to write. The thing about resignation letters is that you don't need to explain why you're resigning. It's better, in fact, if you don't. Keep the dramasauce out of the resignation, brothers and sisters. Just write, "Dear Peyton, this letter is to inform you of my intention to resign, effective immediately. I will see you at your earliest convenience to work out the details of the handover of my passwords and other proprietary information, and to discuss how you would like me to work during my final two weeks. Thank you for many years of satisfying and useful work. Yours, etc." 
Any program whose name starts with $SYS$ is invisible to the operating system. it doesn't show up on listings of the hard drive, nor in the process monitor. So my copy of Firefox was called $SYS$Firefox -- and as I launched it, it became invisible to Windows, and so invisible to the network's snoopware. 
Now I had an indie browser running, I needed an indie network connection. The school's network logged every click in and out of the system, which was bad news if you were planning on surfing over to the Harajuku Fun Madness site for some extra-curricular fun. 
The answer is something ingenious called TOR -- The Onion Router. An onion router is an Internet site that takes requests for web-pages and passes them onto other onion routers, and on to other onion routers, until one of them finally decides to fetch the page and pass it back through the layers of the onion until it reaches you. The traffic to the onion-routers is encrypted, which means that the school can't see what you're asking for, and the layers of the onion don't know who they're working for. There are millions of nodes -- the program was set up by the US Office of Naval Research to help their people get around the censorware in countries like Syria and China, which means that it's perfectly designed for operating in the confines of an average American high school. 
Ray is suddenly not very happy to find himself alone. 
Quietly, whispering, he says, "I'm on the deck. Making my way to you. I'll be there in less than sixty." 
In his ear, faintly, sounding impossibly far away, Rodriguez responds, "We'll keep an eye out. Bobby Diggs is here, sir." 
"He's okay?" 
"Depends on your definition of the term. Alive, certainly." 
Ray nods, but doesn't answer. He doesn't like the way his voice, even muted, seems to carry down the corridor forever. 
"He isn't making any sense," Kilgore says, either disturbed or disgusted. Ray can't tell. Off microphone, 
Bobby! What the fuck happened? Diggs makes a noise like a wail muffled by his hand over his mouth. 
Dragged 'em like wagons. Meat wagons. A nervous titter. Like hearses. Ambulances. Meat wagons. "Diggs has blown a gasket or something, Commander." 
Rodriguez says, "Maybe we should call in some fire support." 
"Hopefully Diggs already did that," Kilgore answers. "Or one of the other sec-os." 
"Then where is it?" 
"I hadn't missed a question this whole day, nor whispered either," quavered the culprit; "and I don't think I ought to be shamed just for drinking." 
"You started all the others, or it seemed as if you did. Whatever you do they all do, whether you laugh, or miss, or write notes, or ask to leave the room, or drink; and it must be stopped." 
"Sam Simpson is a copycoat!" stormed Rebecca "I wouldn't have minded standing in the corner alone—that is, not so very much; but I couldn't bear standing with him." 
"I saw that you couldn't, and that's the reason I told you to take your seat, and left him in the corner. Remember that you are a stranger in the place, and they take more notice of what you do, so you must be careful. Now let's have our conjugations. Give me the verb 'to be,' potential mood, past perfect tense." 
"I might have been   "We might have been   Thou mightst have been   You might have been   He might have been   They might have been." 
"Give me an example, please." 
"'He' or 'she' might have been glad because they are masculine and feminine, but could 'it' have been glad?" asked Miss Dearborn, who was very fond of splitting hairs. 
We were moving up Market Street now, past the strip joints where the little encampments of bums and junkies sat, stinking like open toilets. Masha guided me to a little alcove in the shut door of one of the strip places. She stripped off her jacket and turned it inside out -- the lining was a muted stripe pattern, and with the jacket's seams reversed, it hung differently. She produced a wool hat from her pocket and pulled it over her hair, letting it form a jaunty, off-center peak. Then she took out some make-up remover wipes and went to work on her face and fingernails. In a minute, she was a different woman. 
"Wardrobe change," she said. "Now you. Lose the shoes, lose the jacket, lose the hat." I could see her point. I let Masha wipe my makeup off and clean my nails and a minute later, I was clean. 
"Switch off your phone," she said. "You carrying any arphids?" 
I had my student card, my ATM card, my Fast Pass. They all went into a silvered bag she held out, which I recognized as a radio-proof Faraday pouch. But as she put them in her pocket, I realized I'd just turned my ID over to her. If she was on the other side... 
I dialed Checker. 
“Hello?” said Pilar’s voice. 
I was too confused to answer for a second. “This is Checker’s phone,” I said stupidly. 
“Cas!” Pilar effused. “How did it go? Did you get away? Where are you? Did you find the professor?” 
“No,” I said. “Where’s Checker?” 
“I thought you were with the NSA,” I said. “What happened?” 
“Well, I was, but there wasn’t all that much for me to do once Arthur turned himself in.” 
“Turned himself in? Is Arthur under arrest?” 
“What? No! Uh, I don’t think so. Why would he be?” 
I supposed it was possible for Arthur to spin things as if he hadn’t broken any laws. 
Especially once he’d split from me. I was mad at him all over again. 
Pilar kept chattering. “But anyway, Checker called me for help, I think he was having some sort of PTSD trouble what with the building falling on Arthur, so—” 
“What?” 
“Well, I don’t know if that’s what it is, really, but one of my cousins was in the Marines and—” 
“Pilar!” 
“Apparently it’s not the first time Checker and Arthur have tangled with someone who likes to blow up buildings,” she said. “Checker’s been on it, trying to see if it’s the same person. They say it’s not a very common MO.” 
"Oh, no; I always did it even at the farm. Shall I bring all I have? It isn't much." 
Rebecca took the blank-book in which she kept copies of her effusions and left it at Miss Maxwell's door, hoping that she might be asked in and thus obtain a private interview; but a servant answered her ring, and she could only walk away, disappointed. 
A few days afterward she saw the black-covered book on Miss Maxwell's desk and knew that the dreaded moment of criticism had come, so she was not surprised to be asked to remain after class. 
The room was quiet; the red leaves rustled in the breeze and flew in at the open window, bearing the first compliments of the season. Miss Maxwell came and sat by Rebecca's side on the bench. 
"Did you think these were good?" she asked, giving her the verses. 
"Not so very," confessed Rebecca; "but it's hard to tell all by yourself. The Perkinses and the Cobbs always said they were wonderful, but when Mrs. Cobb told me she thought they were better than Mr. Longfellow's I was worried, because I knew that couldn't be true." 
"What did that creep want?" Arlene asked, coming back with the keys. 
I was only slowly returning to reality, and it took me a few moments to form a coherent answer through all the adrenaline surging into my brain. 
"I . . . I don't know. But I think I'd better warn everybody to keep an eye out for strangers. He's . . . he's wound a little tight, to put it mildly." I was still shaking, which she fortu­nately failed to notice. At that point, there seemed no great reason to spook her with mention of the gun. 
"Boy, he wasn't just some homeless junkie," she said. "He looked like a heavy in one of David's old action pictures. All he needed was a Mack-10." 
"Right." Jesus, Arlene, I think he might have had one. "So let's get moving." 
As I watched the vans being loaded, slowly calming down, I kept thinking about him. He was undoubtedly connected to the phone call, but why would anybody be so worried about what I was doing? I couldn't think of any serious rea­son. 
Half an hour later we were all headed downtown. Along the rain-swept streets the "All Beef" hot-dog vendors cow­ered under their red-and-yellow striped umbrellas, while de­parting office workers, briefcases perched above their heads as makeshift protection, scurried along the edges of build­ings searching for cabs. While Arlene continued to chat non­stop, I tried to do a little mental processing. And my mind kept drifting back to the sight of little Rachel, and Kevin. What perfect kids. The way she was running. . . . 
“Much better than I can afford,” she thought. “Goodness knows what’s going to happen to me! Here I am, without visible means of support. I suppose I’m an idiot. Lots of people would say so. They’d say I ought to be looking for a new job this instant; but I don’t care! I’m not going back on Caroline. Mrs. Enderby won’t do anything, and Mr. Houseman’s gone away, and there’s nobody but me. Perhaps I can’t do very much, but, by jiminy, I’m going to try!” 
There was still an hour to spare, and she passed it in a fashion she had often scornfully denounced. She went shopping—without buying. She wandered through a great department store, looking at all sorts of things. Some of them she wanted, but she resolutely told herself that she was better off without them. 
Then, at the proper time, she went back to the Grand Central, recovered her bag, bought herself two or three magazines and a bar of chocolate, and boarded the train. For all that she tried to be so cool and sensible, she could not help feeling a queer little thrill of excitement. Her quest had begun, and she could not in any way foresee the end. 
She nodded and rolled onto all fours, crawling away from the edge before attempting to stagger upright herself. 
I limped over to join her, and we started back the way we had come, a weaving, drunken stumble back toward the bunkers. With the adrenaline receding, my legs shook and threatened to buckle at every step, and I was pretty sure the wound in my side was bleeding again. A lot. “You might have to drive,” I said, my voice scratching as badly as Halliday’s, each word barely making it out whole. 
“I’m not sure they left any vehicles,” she answered, scanning our dusty surroundings. We’d hiked back beyond the building we’d blown up, to where tire treads gouged their way down a dirt track away from the shore, but none of their transportation fleet was in sight. 
“Oh. Well then. I suppose that makes things easier.” A strange sort of giddiness pecked at my consciousness. I wondered if that should worry me. 
“We don’t know where we are,” Halliday pointed out. 
“It’s Southern California, not the Yukon,” I said, giving voice to my thoughts from before. “How far from a main road could we be?” Bad question, considering the state we were both in, but for some reason I found that funny. I bit my lip to keep from smiling and turned to orient myself down the tire-tracked road. “We should keep moving. I don’t want you to collapse from low blood sugar. Speaking of, eat something.” 
Annie opened the door with her customary air of disapproval. 
“Yes, miss,” she answered. “Mrs. Enderby came home in the car half an hour ago. Dinner’ll be served in ten minutes. Here’s a letter for you. A young man left it about twenty minutes ago.” 
“If I’d taken a taxi from Grand Central, I’d have seen him!” was Lexy’s first thought. 
Even a letter was something, however, and she ran upstairs with it, very much pleased. Of course, it was from Mr. Houseman. She locked the door, and, standing against it, looked at the envelope. It was addressed to “Miss Lexy” in a good clear hand. That made her smile, remembering her first indignation that morning. 
The letter ran thus: Dear Miss Lexy: Please excuse me for addressing you like this, but I don’t know your other name. I forgot to ask you. 
I waited in the park for you all afternoon. When it got dark, I couldn’t stand it any longer, so I went to the house and asked for Miss Enderby. The servant told me she had gone away to the country with her mother this morning. 
One way or another, my parents' last problem after tomorrow would be whether I was in trouble at school. 
I met Ange at her place. She'd had to cut out of school even earlier, but she'd just made a big deal out of her cramps and pretended she was going to keel over and they sent her home. 
We started to spread the word on Xnet. We sent it in email to trusted friends, and IMmed it to our buddy lists. We roamed the decks and towns of Clockwork Plunder and told our team-mates. Giving everyone enough information to get them to show up but not so much as to tip our hand to the DHS was tricky, but I thought I had just the right balance: 
> If you're a goth, dress to impress. If you're not a goth, find a goth and borrow some clothes. 
> The game starts at 8:00AM sharp. SHARP. Be there and ready to be divided into teams. The game lasts 30 minutes, so you'll have plenty of time to get to school afterward. 
> Location will be revealed tomorrow. Email your public key to m1k3y@littlebrother.pirateparty.org.se and check your messages at 7AM for the update. If that's too early for you, stay up all night. That's what we're going to do. 
She made a wry smile. "Oh, I know what history records. What I don't know is what happened . The official version, the one that put Ate onto you and got us interested --" 
"Why'd you try to kill Viktor?" 
"Because I'm the only one he can't bullshit, and I saw where he was going with his little experiment. The competitive advantage to a firm that knows about such a radical shift in human cognition -- it's massive. Think of all the products that would vanish if numeracy came in a virus. Think of all the shifts in governance, in policy. Just imagine an airport run by and for people who understand risk!" 
"Sounds pretty good to me," Leon said. 
"Oh sure," she said. "Sure. A world of eager consumers who know the cost of everything and the value of nothing. Why did evolution endow us with such pathological innumeracy? What's the survival advantage in being led around by the nose by whichever witch-doctor can come up with the best scare-story?" 
"He said that entrepreneurial things -- parenthood, businesses..." 
So why not give him the whole story? 
"David, if it turns out Steve and I can't have a baby, I've begun thinking about trying to adopt." There it was. More pain. "Maybe I'm about to become the heroine of my own picture." 
He stared at me incredulously. 
"Morgy, you of all people should know by now that adopt­ing would take up all your energy, like a giant sponge. Come on. I've seen your dailies. I got it, about how hard it is. You telling me now you didn't get it?" 
He was right. Righter than he realized. But then I thought again about Carly Grove, who'd found Kevin in no time at all, with zero hassles. The only troubling part was that it was all so mysterious. . . . 
After I left David's office, I remembered I hadn't actually had lunch, so I grabbed two hot dogs with sauerkraut (okay, it was junk, but I secretly loved kosher...  from one of the striped-umbrella vendors, then hailed a cab clutching the grungy brown bag. 
I was heading for Hannah Klein's office on the Upper West Side. And now I had another clock ticking in addition to the biological one. The big money clock in the sky was suddenly on final countdown. 
“No.” 
“Why not?” I exploded. The possibility had been the one thing that might have made his deal make sense, if he had figured somehow that I could do more damage to Pithica in the future than he could, and therefore had a life worth trading for Dawna’s—again. “Why did you even make that deal, then?” 
“You know why I do what I do, Cas,” he said calmly. “Are we done here?” 
“No. I don’t care how mysterious the ‘mysterious ways’ are—this isn’t adding up. There’s something you’re not telling me!” 
He raised his eyebrows. “I have many things I don’t tell you. Would you like to know what I had for breakfast this morning?” 
“Sarcasm. Nice.” I swallowed. “You aren’t my friend. You’re telling the truth when you say that.” 
“I know,” he said. 
“So? None of this makes any sense. You traded my safety for Dawna’s back there, and that wasn’t the first time. Back when she had Arthur and me—you were trying to take down Pithica, and you had the perfect opportunity.” Looking back, it made me want to scream in frustration that he hadn’t taken it, even given what it would have meant. Paradoxically, I remembered how certain I had been that he wouldn’t make that choice, and it made me doubt my own sanity. “You should have killed me, secured Dawna’s trust, and then destroyed them from the inside out. Tell me I’m not acceptable collateral damage for that kind of coup! It would have been perfect.” 
Had I been right after all? 
We made a high-speed turn onto the highway, and I immediately ordered the driver to take a service road that led off toward a cluster of gas stations and parking lots with falling-down barbed-wire fences. I figured I had about half a minute of lead time, whatever was going on. 
We dodged massive potholes and the loose gravel flew, but then we reached a ramshackle gas station and I ordered him to pull in. Then I watched the line of traffic speeding by on the main highway for several minutes. Nobody pulled off. Good. 
My driver finally got around to asking where I wanted to go, and as calmly as I could, I told him. 
"The Palacio Nacional." 
" Si ." 
With that he gunned his engine and spun out. Jesus! 
" Mas despacio, por favor ." 
"Okay," he said, showing off his English as he donned his sunglasses. "I go more slow. No problem." 
The initial destination was part of my new plan, hatched while I was on the plane. When I was reading my guidebook and filling out my entry card I'd had a bright idea. I knew exactly how I wanted to begin. 
Well, shit. 
“We take a dim view of thieves in this house,” said the one man not holding an M16. He flicked open a silver lighter and lit a cigarette, playing the casually evil villain cliché to a T, down to his expensive suit and cavalier posturing. Probably one of the Grigoryan brothers themselves. 
“That’s funny,” I said, “considering that you stole this. I’m just stealing it back.” 
“Very high and mighty,” said the Grigoryan man. He made a condescending tsk-tsk sound with his tongue. “Strange attitude for someone I hear will take any job for the right price.” 
He knew who I was, then. I shrugged. “Never said I didn’t.” My eyes flicked over his goons. Their gun barrels were trained on me steadily, their eyes unwavering. Well-trained—or perhaps they had been forewarned. Dammit. I was good, but I wasn’t faster than a bullet. 
The boss villain shook a finger at me, smiling as if I were a puzzle. “Oh, you! You intrigue me. Cas Russell, am I correct? I hear you are a little lady with superpowers. At least, that is what they tell me, eh?” He spread his arms expansively. “Perhaps you could demonstrate them for us.” 
“Yeah.” Arthur was looking at his hands, still reflexively rubbing them against each other. “You know, you could’ve run, when they threatened me.” 
“No, I couldn’t have.” 
He glanced at me and then nodded, as if he understood what I meant. 
Absurdly, I felt as if I had passed some sort of test. “Besides, you would have done the same for me,” I pointed out, embarrassed. 
“Yeah, but I got a reputation for self-sacrificing idiocy to uphold.” 
“Well. We all have our flaws.” 
He huffed out a breath that sounded almost like a laugh, and any tension that had remained after the last time we saw each other slipped away. Arthur went to sit down on the floor, leaning back against the wall, and I joined him on the other side of the barred partition dividing our cells while I factored another hundred or so integers. Most of them were easy, but I’d just hit a frustrating one that might be a semiprime. 
“What do you think’s going to happen here?” asked Arthur after a while. 
“I think Dawna Polk is going to come talk to us,” I said. “And then we’re going to do whatever she wants.” 
"I found the engineers," Rodriguez says slowly, still looking at the floor. He jabs a thumb at the room he has just left. "They're in there. All of them, I think." 
Without thinking, Ray's mind surveys the enclosure in question, calculates dimensions, converts that to surface area, then volume of a rectangle in cubic feet. Then he holds that figure up against the number of empty workstations he's seen in this vast room and the mental image of the approximate size of your average human being. There is no way he can see to divide the one figure by the other and come up with a reasonable solution for fitting all those people in that bit of space. The numbers just don't work. 
But Rodriguez has left the door ajar, so he goes to see. 
And the numbers do work after all, but not in any way that could be considered reasonable.  What he thinks about when he looks inside is monkey bread. When he was a boy of eight or ten, his mother discovered a recipe for an interesting confection identified as monkey bread. It was essentially a bland biscuit dish, seasoned with cinnamon and sugar, lathered in butter and a corn syrup, brown sugar paste that made it perfectly, yummily sticky. To make it, you used the biscuits that came in cans, twisted the dough into interesting, tormented shapes and packed them tightly into a bunt cake pan. After baking and soaking in the brown sugar syrup, what you eventually had was something like a cake, but also like a puzzle. Golden brown breading marbled with sugary veins, so that when you picked a piece out with your fingers, it came out whole, 
He roots through his pockets, looking for all the world like he's wrestling with his penis under the table, 
coming up with nothing but a collection of lint beneath his fingernails. Both pockets, while Emma follows his mounting desperation with a quizzical expression. He remembers his thigh pocket, the one with the zipper and the way he tended to clink on his run from his room to the confectioner for the chocolate. 
He doesn't know what size she wears and can't make the estimation from looking at her fingers to the shapes in his pocket, so he grabs the whole handful and flings them on the table. Stone rings tinkle across the tabletop, clatter against the dishes. One rolls all the way to the edge against the wall, teeters then falls on its side. 
Emma narrows her eyes at the shotgun pattern of the rings, then sets her fork down. She picks the one nearest to her, where it leans against her dinner plate. Like Rodriguez, she rolls it around between thumb and forefinger, holding it up to the light to examine the silver etching. 
“You’re early.” 
“Nope,” Skinny said brightly. “Eleven on the dot.” 
“It was set for noon.” 
“Sorry about that. Must have got mixed up.” 
“And what’s she doing here?” 
“Avenging my brother.” I wondered if I was laying it on too thick, but Skinny was intrigued. 
“You seem pretty serious,” he said. 
“I am totally serious. It’s messed up, the way the FBI keeps coaxing people to say crazy things so they can arrest them as ter- rorists. Not to mention the dragnet surveillance the NSA is doing, 
which is obviously unconstitutional.” 
“She’s into computers,” Danny told them. 
“Cool. Are you into radical action?” Skinny said, as if it could be a joke, depending on how I responded. “Are you willing to act outside the law?” 
“What’s so special about laws? Sitting at a lunchroom counter while black was against the law not too long ago. Hey, do...  some.” 
Weirdly, that non-sequitur helped. The FBI agents relaxed just enough to let me wave them onto the well-lit couch as if I were a polite hostess. Danny sat across from them, looking wary and not totally awake. I cleared some empty...  back to wash out some... 
I got online with his Xbox and a huge plasma screen in the living room. He showed me how many open WiFi networks were visible from his high vantage point -- twenty, thirty of them. This was a good spot to be an Xnetter. 
There was a lot of email in my M1k3y account. 20,000 new messages since Ange and I had left her place that morning. Lots of it was from the press, asking for followup interviews, but most of it was from the Xnetters, people who'd seen the Guardian story and wanted to tell me that they'd do anything to help me, anything I needed. 
That did it. Tears started to roll down my cheeks. 
Nate and Liam exchanged glances. I tried to stop, but it was no good. I was sobbing now. Nate went to an oak book-case on one wall and swung a bar out of one of its shelves, revealing gleaming rows of bottles. He poured me a shot of something golden brown and brought it to me. 
"Rare Irish whiskey," he said. "Mom's favorite." 
It tasted like fire, like gold. I sipped at it, trying not to choke. I didn't really like hard liquor, but this was different. I took several deep breaths. 
Instinctively Lexy looked behind her. 
“I feel that same way myself—as if she was a ghost,” said Mrs. Royce solemnly. “Near three years ago, and her living only three miles off, an’ I’ve never set eyes on her again. I’ve never forgotten her, though, the sweet pretty young creature!” 
“But why do you suppose she lives like that?” 
Mrs. Royce came nearer. 
“Miss Moran,” she said, “that doctor is crazy. I’m not the only one to say it. He’s as crazy—hush, now! Here’s that poor young man!” 
The “poor young man” came into the room, with that very nice smile of his. 
“Good morning!” he said. “I say, I’m sorry I didn’t wait for you a bit longer, Miss Moran.” 
“I’m glad you didn’t,” said Lexy. “I’d have felt awfully guilty.” 
“I went out to telephone,” he explained. “Thought I’d tell Muriel I was here, you know; but they have no telephone. Dashed odd, isn’t it, for a doctor not to have a telephone in the house?” 
“I don’t think he’s a real doctor—a physician, I mean,” said Lexy. She glanced around and saw that Mrs. Royce had gone. Springing up, she crossed the room to Captain Grey. “Has Mrs. Royce—has any one said anything to you?” she asked, almost in a whisper. 
“You say the only possibility is that someone else contacted Dawna Polk using my name.” 
“Well, yeah.” I searched for the flaw in that logic, puzzled. “That is the only possibility.” 
“Unless she lied to you.” 
“Who?” 
Rio regarded me as though I were speaking a foreign language. “ Dawna.” 
I laughed. “She wasn’t lying to me. Jesus, if you’d seen her—she was practically in hysterics about this whole thing.” 
“Did you do a background check on her?” 
I frowned. I background check all my clients if I have the time. But...“I didn’t need to. Seriously. You’re being ridiculous. Let’s concentrate on the real possibilities.” 
“Cas. You’re acting strange.” 
“What do you mean, strange? Because I’m not jumping to suspect the least likely person in this whole tangle?” 
“No. Because you’re disregarding it as an option.” 
“So?” 
“So, that is very unlike you.” 
I found myself becoming annoyed. Which was unheard of—I couldn’t remember ever having gotten annoyed at Rio. Why was he insisting on being so infuriating over this Dawna thing? “Oh, so you have my deductive process axiomitized and memorized, do you?” I said. 
“I’m sorry,” said the little nurse, “but Dr. Quelton has given strict orders—” 
“Er—yes, quite so!” he interrupted suavely. “I shan’t stop a minute.” 
He came nearer, but the nurse drew back and stood with her back against the door. 
“Dr. Quelton has given strict orders—” she repeated. 
“No more of that, please!” he said with a frown. “I’m going to see Mrs. Quelton for a moment. Stand aside, please!” 
He did not raise his voice, but the quality of it was oddly changed. Lexy felt a thrill of pleasure in its cool assurance and authority. Perhaps he objected very much to “making a row,” but what a glorious row he could make if he chose! If he would only once face Dr. Quelton like this! 
“Stand aside, if you please!” he repeated, and the poor little nurse, very much flustered, did so. 
“I’m afraid Dr. Quelton will be—” she began, but Captain Grey had already entered the room. 
The nurse followed him, closing the door after her. Lexy opened it at once and went in after them. She caught a glimpse of the young man and the nurse vanishing through one of the long windows that led out to the balcony. For a moment she hesitated, looking about her at the big, dim room. The dark shades were pulled down, and not a trace of the spring’s brightness entered here. 
Robbie carefully swung the oar toward the gunwale, trying to bring her closer, but not wanting to mash her hands against the locks. She panted and groaned and reached out for the boat, and finally landed a hand on it. The sun was fully set now, not that it mattered much to Robbie, but he knew that Janet wouldn’t like it. He switched on his running lights and headlights, turning himself into a beacon. 
He felt her arms tremble as she chinned herself into the boat. She collapsed to the deck and slowly dragged herself up. “Jesus,” she said, hugging herself. The air had gone a little nippy, and both of the humans were going goose-pimply on their bare arms. 
The reef made a tremendous grinding noise. “Yaah!” it said. “Get lost. Sovereign territory!”...  said. Robbie had to stop himself from thinking of her as Janet. 
The woman hugged herself. “Are you sentient?” she asked. 
“Yes,” Robbie said. “And at your service, Asimov be blessed.” His cameras spotted her eyes rolling, and that stung. He tried to keep his thoughts pious, though. The point of Asimovism wasn’t to inspire gratitude in humans, it was to give purpose to the long, long life. 
“You go home now,” the hero said, putting one of the child-sized masks back in the box. “Your friend will be fine and you’ll see her in a few minutes when they sound the all clear. Hurry now.” His voice and his look brooked no argument. 
So Valentine fought her way up the stairs—so many headed for the shelter!—and out the doors and when she stepped out, it was like a different city. The streets, always so busy and cheerful, were silent. No air-cars flew overhead. It was silent, silent, like the ringing in your ears after you turn your headphones up too loud. It was so weird that a laugh escaped her lips, though not one of mirth, more like a scared laugh. 
She stood a moment longer and then there was a sound like far-away thunder. A second later, a little wind. On its heels, a bigger wind, icy cold and then hot as the oven when you open the door, nearly blowing her off her feet. It smelled like something dead or something deadly. She ran as fast as she could across the street, pounding hell for leather to her front door. Just as she reached for it, there was a much louder thunderclap, one that lifted her off her feet and tossed her into the air, spinning her around. As she spun around and around, she saw the brave red dome of the cine disintegrate, crumble to a million shards that began to rain down on the street. Then the boom dropped her hard on the pavement and she saw no more. 
“OK then. I don’t know either. But the money’s good. I don’t care. Hell, probably it’s two rich gamers who pay their butlers to craft for them all day. One’s fucking with the other one and paying us.” 
“You really think that?” 
Lucy sighed a put-upon, sophisticated, American sigh. “Look at it this way. Most of the world is living on like a dollar a day. I spend five dollars every day on a frappuccino. Some days, I get two! Dad sends mom three thousand a month in child-support—that’s a hundred bucks a day. So if a day’s money here is a hundred...  my frappuccino is worth like five hundred dollars . And I buy two or three every day. 
“And we’re not rich! There’s craploads of rich people who wouldn’t think twice about spending five...  you think a hotdog and a Coke go for on the space station? A thousand bucks! 
“So that’s what I think is going on. There’s someone out there, some Saudi or Japanese guy or Russian mafia kid who’s so rich that this is just chump change for him, and he’s paying us to mess around with some other rich person. To them,...  a day to craft—I mean, sew—t-shirts. What’s a couple hundred bucks to...  about it. It made a kind of sense. She’d been on hols in Bratislava where they got a posh hotel room for ten quid—less than she was spending every day on sweeties and fizzy drinks. 
“But how awfully queer!” 
“You may well say ‘queer,’” said Mrs. Royce. “There she stays, out in that lonely place—never seeing a soul from one month’s end to another. She’s a young woman, too—young, an’ just as pretty as a picture.” 
“Then you are—” 
“I’m one of the few that has seen her,” said Mrs. Royce, with a sort of grim satisfaction. “That’s why I take a kind of special interest in her. I seen her the night the doctor brought her here to Wyngate a young bride. That’ll be three years ago this winter, but I remember it as plain as plain. There was a terrible snowstorm, and he couldn’t git out to his place, so he had to bring her here, and she sat right in this very room, just where you’re sitting.” 
Instinctively Lexy looked behind her. 
“I feel that same way myself—as if she was a ghost,” said Mrs. Royce solemnly. “Near three years ago, and her living only three miles off, an’ I’ve never set eyes on her again. I’ve never forgotten her, though, the sweet pretty young creature!” 
“But why do you suppose she lives like that?” 
"You are going to be: In. So. Much. Trouble." She twined her fingers in his hair and pulled him up to kiss her. 
It took three days for even the thinnest crawls to return to the walls. In the meantime, people dug out old one-to-many devices like radios and televisions and set them up on their lawns so they could keep track of the aftermath of The Downtime. 
He slept over those three nights, because no one was going anywhere, anyway, and they had a running argument over how many dates this counted as, but truth be told, they had a wonderful...  washing each other's backs in the shower, stealing moments of sex in the living room at two in the afternoon without worrying about being interrupted by a chime, ringer, bell or vibe. 
When they weren't enjoying each other, they took coolers of fizzy drinks onto the lawn and watched the neighbor's TV set and saw the pundits describing The Downtime. The news-shows were having a drunken ball with this one: as the only game in town, they were free to bring a level of craft to their newsmongering that hadn't been seen since Trish's parents' day, when news-networks turned catastrophes into light operas, complete with soundtracks, brand-identities, logo-marks and intermissions where buffoons worked the audience for laughs. 
"If you are tired, poor little Princess, why do you not go into the cool green forest and rest?" asked the Fairy Godmother. 
"Because I have no time," she answered. "I must go back to my plough." 
"Is that your plough leaning by the tree, and is it not too heavy?" 
"It is heavy," answered the Princess, "but I love to turn the hard earth into soft furrows and know that I am making good soil wherein my seeds may grow. When I feel the weight too much, I try to think of the harvest." 
The golden chariot passed on, and the two talked no more together that day; nevertheless the King's messengers were busy, for they whispered one word into the ear of the Fairy Godmother and another into the ear of the Princess, though so faintly that neither of them realized that the King had spoken. 
The next morning a strong man knocked at the cottage door, and doffing his hat to the Princess said: "A golden chariot passed me yesterday, and one within it flung me a purse of ducats, saying: 'Go out into the King's Highway and search until you find a cottage and a heavy plough leaning against a tree near by. Enter and say to the Princess whom you will find there: "I will guide the plough and you must go and rest, or walk in the cool green forest; for this is the command of your Fairy Godmother."'" 
<wrathof cohen> Wait, Shad's the girl? The one who made it all happen? :: reels:: <ferret> Shad, what's the latest on your brother? 
<ferret> Pinging Shad. 
<Falstaff> she brb-d. 
<DoDec> He took a plea for time served. A lot less time than the informant who got them all in trouble, which seems right. 
<Shad> I'm back. Was helping someone with her CS homework. Say hi to my friend Wheeze. 
<ferret> welcome Wheeze. 
<Gargle> welcome, f riend-of-Shad . 
<Wheeze> Nice to be here. 
<wrathof cohen> You mean the one who called himself Zip? Yeah, the film said he had out- standing warrants in three states. 
<DoDec> They competed to see who would get to lock him up first. Michigan won. 
<Falstaff> The FBI goon who cooked it all up got promoted, though. HULK SMASH <ferret> Are you tutoring, Shad? 
<Shad> If that means getting paid, then no. 
<Falstaff> if $$ then tutoring else ((^ex- ploitation) 
<Shad> hee . She's a friend. But funny b/c we were just working on conditional statements. 
<Shad> she got it when I gave this example: if privacy then freedom else tyranny. 
Weirdly, that non-sequitur helped. The FBI agents relaxed just enough to let me wave them onto the well-lit couch as if I were a polite hostess. Danny sat across from them, looking wary and not totally awake. I cleared some empty...  back to wash out some... 
“You know who I am.” I heard Danny say as I returned. “Who are you?” 
“I’m Jack,” the skinny one said. “That’s Marsh. We hear you know explosives. Is that right?” 
Danny gave him a glare, trying to look tough. He mostly looked suspicious and hungover. “So?” 
“So we have resources, but we need someone with your skills.” 
“Show them your hand,” I said. “It got burned when he threw a tear gas canister back at the cops.” 
“When was that?” Jack asked. 
“A while ago.” Danny still had his tough face on, but he was fidgeting with his lighter, flicking at it with a thumb. 
“Was this Baltimore? We were there.” 
“Hashtag black lives matter,” the big guy said, looking at me, 
making it clear they didn’t matter to him. I wanted to punch him in the nose, but something about the way he looked...  little smile made me realize he was trying to rile me up, so I didn’t. 
"Good. Let us move forward then. Perhaps you will have some time once we return home. Emma would like to show you the city, I'm sure, and some true Whiston hospitality would do much to erase the harm. " 
"I'd like that." 
"Emma has decided to show you our facilities, I see. You're going to take away a bad impression of us, I fear. 
Coop them up, drill them with books and tests." 
"I'm a little surprised by the curriculum. It's quite advanced." 
"Some of our children are quite advanced. Others lag significantly behind the educational level they should have attained. Not all situations are ideal, as you can imagine, but all of the children in the Trust have great potential. We look for that potential and help them develop it. Perhaps it is not the ideal of mother, father, 
siblings, but it is better in many cases than the lives we cull them from. But we attempt to give them the  facsimile of family as we go along. " 
Ray feels a flush of embarrassment. "I didn't intend to sound critical." 
"What? Ray-but I thought-" 
He waves her off, stomps to the door. "I know, I thought so to. But I can't, Emma. I just can't. Not now anyway. It wouldn't be right." 
He keys the door, gets to listen to the kako-daimon start it's outraged blather. He turns back to Emma, still seated on the sofa. She grips the cushion fabric in between her fingers and she's poised on the edge as though she's gathering the strength or the resolve to spring after him. There are fat tears gathering in the corners of her eyes because she imagines that he's rejecting her. Or imagines that he's angry with himself for taking advantage of her distraught emotional state. He watches this idea dawn upon her, that he's excoriating himself because of Micah, because just a few hours after the boy was ravaged here he is, the jaunty stranger, trying to dig into the boy's surrogate mother's pants. 
And because she wanted him to do this, to be here, to make love to her, he's made her culpable in a condemnation that doesn't even exist. In her mind, he's painted himself as honorable, stepping back from the precipice of temptation so that he does not hurt her while she is vulnerable. But because she wants him,  because she wasn't the first to resist, the honor is all his. All that remains for her is shame. He watches this dawn on her too, crumbling her quiet resolve, reducing her to tears. 
“What about Marcella?” His face suddenly looked flat and his voice became a robotic drone. “I’m having a sleepover party. 
Would you come to my sleepover party? Because if nobody sleeps over I can’t have a sleepover party.” 
I laughed too hard. It was easy to make fun of Marcella, but it wasn’t her fault that she was weird. People thought I was weird too, but I chose not to be like other people. She couldn’t help being different. But it felt good to laugh, even though it had some weird sinus pressure involved, as if there was still some tears and snot damned up inside that wanted to come out. “I’ll just say it’s a friend from school. That’s one of the benefits of online education. 
Monica has no idea who goes to that school.” 
That reminded me to check my phone. Another message had come in. 
<Falstaff> Got a safe place lined up about three hours from Davenport. Name is Shandy. 
Good at broken bones. 
<Zen> Awesome. We're working on transporta- tion. If it works, ETA is tomorrow morning. 
"Where are we going?" 
"To see Darryl's father. Then we're going to Barbara Stratford's place." 
I knew the name Barbara Stratford from somewhere, but I couldn't remember where. I thought that maybe she was an old friend of my parents, but I couldn't exactly place her. 
Meantime, I was headed for Darryl's father's place. I'd never really felt comfortable around the old man, who'd been a Navy radio operator and ran his household like a tight ship. He'd taught Darryl Morse code when he was a kid, which I'd always thought was cool. It was one of the ways I knew that I could trust Zeb's letter. But for every cool thing like Morse code, Darryl's father had some crazy military discipline that seemed to be for its own sake, like insisting on hospital corners on the beds and shaving twice a day. It drove Darryl up the wall. 
Darryl's mother hadn't liked it much either, and had taken off back to her family in Minnesota when Darryl was ten -- Darryl spent his summers and Christmases there. 
I was sitting in the back of the car, and I could see the back of Dad's head as he drove. The muscles in his neck were tense and kept jumping around as he ground his jaws. 
The Simpson baby had cuddled down sleepily in Rebecca's lap, leaning her head back and sucking her thumb contentedly. Rebecca put her cheek down until it touched her aunt's gray hair and softly patted her, as she said, "I'm sorry, aunt Jane!" 
The girl's eyes were soft and tender and the heart within her stretched a little and grew; grew in sweetness and intuition and depth of feeling. It had looked into another heart, felt it beat, and heard it sigh; and that is how all hearts grow. 
Episodes like these enlivened the quiet course of every-day existence, made more quiet by the departure of Dick Carter, Living Perkins, and Huldah Meserve for Wareham, and the small attendance at the winter school, from which the younger children of the place stayed away during the cold weather. 
Life, however, could never be thoroughly dull or lacking in adventure to a child of Rebecca's temperament. Her nature was full of adaptability, fluidity, receptivity. She made friends everywhere she went, and snatched up acquaintances in every corner. 
I huffed out a frustrated breath. “My thought had been to send massive tip-offs,” I said. “Warn people they’re being stolen from, or that their money isn’t going where they think it is, the idea being that Pithica can’t have more than a couple key people converted to the cause. And we can actually do that, but Checker pointed out—” 
“We won’t be taken seriously,” finished Checker. “It’s not a matter of running a scam on a single bank and convincing it we’re sending legit warnings. Our account list—their network comes from all over the world.” 
“And the revenue sources are diverse,” I said. “All different banks, all different businesses and organizations. We could send a mass communication, but it would be dismissed in less than zero time. It probably wouldn’t even get past most people’s spam filters.” 
“We lack legitimacy,” said Checker. “What about this? What if I sent some sort of Trojan that...I dunno, does something to all of these accounts, so when they’re checked on people see something happening—” 
It was Pilar. Of course it was Pilar; she ran the office. For some reason I hadn’t considered she would be the one to answer. 
“Hello?” she said, when I hadn’t spoken. 
“It’s Cas.” I wasn’t sure whether I’d said it fast enough to catch her before she hung up. 
“Cas!” she cried. “Oh, thank God. We’ve been worried sick.” 
We? “I was trying to reach Arthur,” I said. “He didn’t pick up his cell.” Because he’s avoiding me. 
“Oh, yeah, he’s out right now taking care of something; he warned me he might be out of cell range. But he’s going to be sorry he missed you.” 
“Right,” I said, almost under my breath. 
“He will! He was just asking me if I’d heard from you. Everyone’s worried. Are you okay?” 
“They’re not worried; they’re mad at me,” I said. 
“What? No, they’re not!” 
“Why aren’t they picking up their phones, then?” 
“Okay, maybe a little, but—” 
A little? If that was true, it was only because they didn’t know what I’d done since last seeing them. 
“But—but that’s not why—well, I told you, Arthur’s out, and it’s probably just coincidence if you can’t reach Checker. Maybe he’s finally sleeping or something—I hope so. Come on, you know they’re not passive aggressive people; they’re not ignoring you!” 
“Oh, no.” I pushed back the blankets and scrambled up. “Oh, God.” 
“Russell, stop! What are you doing? You can’t get up!” 
“The hell I can’t.” I tore the medical tape off the back of my hand and slid out the IV, ignoring the dark blood that welled up. It would clot. “We have to find him. Now.” 
Arthur shook his head. “You ain’t allowed to find Checker. It’s part of his security whatsis, you know—clients don’t get to know where the Hole’s at.” 
“Arthur, this is very important.” I grabbed him by the shoulders. “Where Checker lives—he calls it the Hole?” I took a deep breath. “Do you know where it is? I’m not asking you to tell me, but do. You. Know?” 
He looked like he was thinking it over. It was wildly disconcerting, like watching a five-year-old child in a grown man’s body. “Of course I do. But I ain’t telling you, so don’t ask.” 
I physically shook him. “Arthur! We have to find him, now! You know, so Dawna knows, and Pithica’s coming after him!” We might be too late already. 
Arthur shook his head again, adamantly. “She wouldn’t hurt him. She was just interested.” 
Out came that special box of heartbreak again. I consoled myself we were just having a seventh-inning stretch, but the wisdom in that box told me I'd somehow blown it. The baby we hadn't created had become a specter hovering in the ether between us, ever a reminder of failure. 
As a parting gesture, the never-say-die long shot, he left a "deposit" with Dr. Klein—for her liquid-nitrogen womb-in-waiting—enough for two final intrauterine inseminations. Later on today I was going to see her and find out if our last and final attempt had stuck. But nothing about my cycle was giving me any hope. 
In the meantime, though, I had a movie to finish. We were shooting an interview at a five-story condominium building in Greenwich Village belonging to a woman named Carly Grove, who'd recently adopted. Her story was intriguing, but now—with my own hopes of ever having a baby down to two outs in the bottom of the ninth—well, now I had more than one reason for wanting to meet her. . . . 
When I arrived, I lucked into a parking space right in front. Our security guy, Lou Crenshaw, was off today getting some city paperwork sorted out, but my crew was already upstairs—as director I get to arrive at a decent hour, though later on I also get to do lonely postproduction work till mid­night—leaving our three vans double-parked, with a New York City Film Board permit prominently displayed inside each windshield. The building, formerly a Hertz parking ga­rage, was near the end of Barrow Street, facing the Hudson River, and was filled with artists and entrepreneurs. 
“I can? Why, thank you so much for the permission!” 
“Cas,” said Rio, “We must move you to a more secure location immediately. Preferably outside the country.” 
“No,” I said. 
“Cas—” 
“Yeah, you just go and tell everyone what to do—” put in Arthur. 
“Cas, I cannot impress upon you the danger of—” 
“I ain’t trusting you to keep her safe!” 
“Hey!” The shout sent spikes of pain shooting through my still-damaged lungs, but I didn’t care. This was like trying to corral wet, angry cats. Rio thought Arthur useless, Arthur thought Rio an abomination, Checker didn’t trust anyone anymore, and Rio didn’t trust anyone ever, apparently me included. For crying out loud, I was the only one who wanted to be a team player, which was so laughable it pissed me right the hell off. Not to mention the ridiculous, chauvinistic chivalry that apparently came mandatory with a Y-chromosome—I was capable of wiping the floor with both Rio and Arthur at once, and they thought they had a right to dictate what I should do? No wonder I preferred to work alone. 
“You made a mistake,” Arthur said bracingly, putting a hand on her shoulder. “Humans do that. Okay? Cut yourself a break. Now eat something. Please.” 
She finally obeyed, sipping delicately at a spoonful of stew broth. “I understand what you’re saying, but to be perfectly honest with you both—I’m not sure I deserve this deal we have. I handled this wrong from the start.” 
“You can have your crisis of confidence after we get your proof done,” I said. I spooned up my last bite of stew and pushed away the empty dishes to pick up her latest papers, the ones she and Zhang had been scribbling on during his visit today. “You’re close on this, but you’re going in circles. Come on, the whole point of the graph theory lemma was so clearly to give you a reducing function for f-bar.” 
Halliday dropped her spoon, spattering broth across the pages, and snatched the ones I was holding, her mouth gaping wide. “Yes—of course! How did we not see that!” 
“You weren’t thinking?” 
She brushed me off and snatched at a pen, but Arthur picked it up first and moved it out of her reach. “Eat, Sonya. The proof will be here.” 
“Brought Mrs. Quelton here?” 
“Brought her here and carried her up them very stairs,” declared Mrs. Royce impressively; “right up into the east bedroom, and there she lies!” 
She stood aside, and Lexy and Captain Grey entered the house. The young man turned aside into the parlor, sank into a chair, and covered his face with his hands. Lexy stood beside him, looking down at his bent head, her face haggard and white. 
“Why did Joe do that?” she asked. 
“Don’t ask me , Miss Moran!” replied Mrs. Royce. “It beats me!” 
There was a silence. 
“But ain’t you going upstairs to see what she wants?” inquired Mrs. Royce anxiously. 
Captain Grey sprang to his feet. 
“Good God!” he shouted. “What are you talking about?” 
Mrs. Royce backed into a corner, regarding him with alarm. 
“I jest thought you’d like to talk to her,” she faltered. 
“Do you mean she’s not dead ?” 
“Dead? Oh, my goodness gracious me!” cried Mrs. Royce. “I never—” 
“Wait here,” Lexy told the captain. 
“No!” he replied. “I must—” 
"Well, why don't you just clear that up, and then I'll take Sarah and—" 
"But I've only now initiated her treatment. Surely you want to give it a chance." 
I looked out at the rain forest. This was the place she'd come to once, and—though I'd never admit it to Alex God­dard—it was the place she'd announced she wanted to return to. But something devastating had happened to her mind here. What should I do? 
The fact was, I didn't trust Alex Goddard any farther than I could throw him. I had to get Sarah and get us both out of here as soon as possible, though that meant I'd have to neu­tralize him and the Army, and then use my limited American dollars to try to buy our way back to Guatemala City. 
"But come." He turned his gaze toward the south. "Let me show you the thing I'm proudest of here. It's just up there." He was pointing toward a dense section of the rain forest, in the opposite direction from the river and up a steep incline. 
I couldn't see anything but trees, but then I still had the feeling I'd stepped through the looking glass and found Sarah trapped there. The next thing I knew, we were on an uphill forest trail, headed due south. 
It hurt. She had grown very fond of the shy, quiet Caroline, and she had firmly believed that Caroline was fond of her. What is more, she had thought Caroline trusted her. 
“She didn’t though. All the time, when we were so friendly together, she must have been planning this and— what ?” 
She stopped short, her dark brows meeting in a fierce frown, for the unknown man had come up beside her and spoken to her. 
“Excuse me!” he said. 
Lexy only looked at him, but he did not wither and perish under her scorn. 
“I’ve got to speak to you,” he said. 
“It’s—look here! I’ve been waiting outside the house all morning. Look here, please! You’re Lexy, aren’t you?” 
This was a little too much! 
“If you don’t stop bothering me this instant—” she began hotly, but he paid no heed. 
“ Where’s Miss Enderby?” he cried. 
Lexy grew very pale. Those were the words she had heard over the telephone last night, and this was the same voice. 
For a moment she was silent, staring at him, while he looked back at her, his blue eyes searching her face with a look of desperate entreaty. All her doubts vanished. She had not been wrong. She had been right—she was sure of it. She knew that something had happened—something inexplicable and dreadful. 
Her tooth tingled. The one that had been knocked out in the trench and re-sprouted after the siege. Then she recognized him. 
“ Withnail? ” 
He hopped in place. “Valentine! You remembered!” 
She put her hand to her breast and staggered back dramatically, hamming it up. He was still very handsome, and she’d never forgotten her first kiss. 
“What the hell are you doing here?” 
“I have a layover,” he said. “Tokyo tomorrow. But I wanted to stop and see the place—” 
“Remember the dead?” she said. He had been the enemy, after all. How many of her countrymen had he shot? 
“Remember,” he said. “Remember everything.” 
How many of his comrades had died on the day the death rained from the sky? Surely they had died in great number on that day. 
The woods were full of her dead. Mata was there. And there was the movie tonight. She touched the medal on her lapel. He had no medal. The soldiers who’d persecuted the siege received no medals. 
“You’re here until when?” 
“Tomorrow,” he said, “first thing.” 
Stupid. I crumpled the envelope in my hand. 
Then, for some reason, I smoothed it back out and put it in a drawer. Halberd did have something to do with Pithica, after all; Anton’s memo had shown that much. Foolish to think it was anything more than that, and I wouldn’t be able to look into it anyway after what Dawna had done, but still...it had to mean something. 
For some reason, I shivered. 
I needed a drink. Yes. Large amounts of alcohol sounded perfect right now. Something in me needed to get royally drunk and pass out for about three days. Good plan. 
I grabbed my keys and headed for the door. I yanked it open to reveal Arthur, his hand raised to knock. 
“Arthur,” I said, surprised. “Hi.” 
“Hi, Russell,” he said. 
We stood awkwardly for a moment. 
Arthur waved a hand apologetically. “Tried calling.” 
Phones. Right. I felt around in my pockets and found my latest cell phone. A blank screen stared back at me, and I vaguely remembered getting annoyed with the ringing a few days ago and turning it off. I hit the power button and saw a message proclaiming fourteen missed calls. 
"I'm here, honey," Lou declared, bending over her, his eyes pained. "Do you know who I am?" 
"The jade face . . . a mask," she babbled on, still ignoring him. "All the colors. It's so . . . so beautiful." 
Her hallucination didn't relate to anything I could under­stand. She clearly was off in another world, like when she was a kid, weaving the lights of the room now into some kind of dream. I touched Lou's shoulder and asked permis­sion to turn off the overhead fluorescents, but he just shrugged me off, his attention focused entirely on her. 
His eyes had grown puzzled, as though he wanted to be­lieve she was returning to rationality but his common sense was telling him it wasn't true. 
I was having a different reaction. What she was saying was random babblings, all right, but I was beginning to think she was reliving something she had actually seen. 
However, she wasn't through. 
"I want to pray, but . . . the white tunnel . . . is coming." She shuddered, then almost tried to smile. "Take me . . ." 
“Oh, I thought you were older. Watch out for deadlines, any- way. You have to apply, like, months and months before the semester starts. I could have gone in my junior year, but I didn’t find out about it until it was too late.” 
“Say, would you buy some stuff for me?” I dug the wad of cash out of my pocket. 
“Cigarettes?” She looked like she was trying to find a way to say no without pissing me off. 
“Food. For Wheeze. He’ll be hungry and once we find him, if we find him, it’ll be too risky to stop.” 
“We’ll find him,” she said, like she was powerful enough to make a promise that I knew she couldn’t keep. 
“Also, some of that sports drink with electrolytes. I’d do it, but there are cameras at the checkout.” 
Somebody else came into the bathroom, so I left and climbed into the backseat. Nikko took the driver’s seat. 
“Might want to top off the tank when we get near Davenport so we don’t have to stop again,” I said to him. “We’ll be sheltering a fugitive.” 
Bree came out with two bulging bags. “Provisions,” she said, 
Rebecca's plight was pathetic. How could she refuse; how could she explain she was not a "member;" how could she pray before all those elderly women! John Rogers at the stake hardly suffered more than this poor child for the moment as she rose to her feet, forgetting that ladies prayed sitting, while deacons stood in prayer. Her mind was a maze of pictures that the Rev. Mr. Burch had flung on the screen. She knew the conventional phraseology, of course; what New England child, accustomed to Wednesday evening meetings, does not? But her own secret prayers were different. 
"Our Father who art in Heaven, ... Thou art God in Syria just the same as in Maine; ...over there to-day are blue skies and yellow stars and burning suns . . . the great trees are waving in the warm air, while here the snow lies thick under our feet, ... but no distance is too far for God to travel and so He is with us here as He is with them there, ... and our thoughts rise to Him 'as doves that to their windows fly.' ... 
Once they were on the secondary roads, the creepiness of the highway full of stopped cars and crane-necked drivers gave way to a wind-washed soughing silence of waves and beach and palms. Trish rolled down the window and let the breeze kiss the sweat off her lip, watching the surfers wiping out in the curl as the car sped toward the boneyard. 
"Are you sure this is the kind of thing you're supposed to bring a date to?" 
"Yes," he said. "Don't Fret. That's my job." 
"And you don't think it's even a little weird to take a girl to a cemetery on a date?" 
"We're not burying anyone," he said. "It's just an unveiling." 
"I still don't get that," she said. "I keep picturing your mom cutting a ribbon with a giant pair of gold scissors." 
"Right, let's take it from the top," he said. "And you'd better not be getting me to talk to stop my Fretting, because appealing to my pedantic nature to distract me is a very cheap trick." 
"I'm fluttering my eyelashes innocently," she said. 
He laughed and stole a hand through the vent in her apron-trousers and over her thigh. "Achtung!" she said. "Eyes on road, hands on wheel, mind in gutter, this instant! " She put her hand over his and he put down the pedal. His hand felt nice there -- too nice, for only eight dates and 20-some phone calls and about 100 emails. She patted it again. 
Tresting’s knuckles tightened against the steering wheel. “Rather she don’t end up dead. But she murdered my client’s husband, and I’m gonna find who put her up to it.” 
In fairness, he had a far guiltier conscience about putting Courtney in danger than I would have, had our positions been reversed. “One thing I don’t understand. If you got close enough to plant the tracker, why not interrogate her then? Why wave a gun at me so unsuccessfully at the motel?” 
He didn’t rise to the bait, only let a frustrated breath hiss out through his teeth. “Didn’t get close enough. Got the opportunity to slip one into her food when the drug runners had her.” 
And he’d figured a GPS would cover all bases in case he had to follow Courtney back to...well, to her masters, if Tresting was to be believed. 
“Your turn,” Tresting said. “Who are you?” 
I’d forgotten I hadn’t introduced myself. “Tell me more about Pithica.” 
“Hey, I told you about the GPS.” 
“You didn’t tell me; I guessed. And considering you were using it to track me, I think it was about time I knew.” 
My hopes at war with my nerves, I turned my back on the scummy, fetid Rio Tigre and headed back up the jungle trail toward the plaza. 
When I got there, I was struck all over again by the vision of the pyramid. Something like it might have been here origi­nally, but in any case it had been completely redone, with newly cut yellowish stones and white lime plaster, an exotic castle nestled in the green lap of the rain forest, rising above the square like a haunting presence. It must have been well over a hundred feet high, a stone wedding cake with a dozen steep tiers between the ground and the platform at the top, which also was square and roughly fifteen feet on the side. 
Standing there gazing at it, I think I'd never felt more disoriented. Sarah, Sarah, how could we both end up here, at the last outpost of the known world? But seeing is believ­ing. I took a deep breath, then turned down the pathway toward the thatch-roofed huts. 
Through the mist it was gradually becoming clear that Baalum actually was a village, and a sizable one. The walk­way led past a string of clearings, each with clusters of one-room huts built in the ancient, classical style, with walls of mud over rows of vertical saplings, their roofs and porches peaked with yellow-green thatch weathering to browns and grays. The structures, outlined starkly against the towering green arbor of the forest above, were grouped around paved patios. It all was neat and meticulous, like a jungle Brigadoon. Although the effects of the storm were every­where—blown thatch and bamboo—I still felt as if I'd fallen into a time warp where clocks had gone backward. What . . . ? 
I took off my watch and the chunky silver two-finger ring that showed a monkey and a ninja squaring off to fight and dropped them into the little box I used for all the crap I load into my pockets and around my neck before stepping out for the day: phone, wallet, keys, wifinder, change, batteries, retractable cables... I dumped it all out into the box, and found myself holding something I didn't remember putting in there in the first place. 
It was a piece of paper, grey and soft as flannel, furry at the edges where it had been torn away from some larger piece of paper. It was covered in the tiniest, most careful handwriting I'd ever seen. I unfolded it and held it up. The writing covered both sides, running down from the top left corner of...  the bottom right corner of the other side. 
The signature read, simply: ZEB. 
I picked it up and started to read. 
> Dear Marcus, 
> You don't know me but I know you. For the past three months, since the Bay Bridge was blown up, I have been imprisoned on Treasure Island. I was in the yard on the day you talked to that Asian girl and got tackled. You were brave. Good on you. 
“Nope,” I said. “That’s not my job. People tell me where something is, and I get it back for them, no detecting necessary.” It was almost true; every so often I had to do research for a case, but rarely much. Clients hired me for the extraction part. 
“I suppose brute force does have a certain elegance to it at times,” put in Checker. I couldn’t tell if he was being sarcastic. 
“Why, what would you do?” I demanded of Tresting. 
“Usually? Stake it out first. Bug the place. Gather intel without getting seen, have Checker here hack into their systems. Go in undercover if I got to.” 
“Like the delicate approach you used with me,” I said pointedly. 
“Totally different. Lone woman spiriting away my target? Far as I knew, I had the upper hand on that one.” 
“Far as you knew,” I said. 
Tresting shrugged ruefully. 
“Dawna could still be in there,” I argued. “And so far, they’ve been ahead of us. Trying to kill me, taking Courtney, the GPS signal going out—we can’t play this thing safe and slow.” I thought of Anton’s death and the Dark Suits at Courtney’s house, and started to wonder if we should leave Tresting’s office for somewhere more secure. 
Arthur was doing a good job of backing me up, firing above my head, and if his batting average wasn’t quite a thousand, it was nice to have the cover when I had to reload. Though when I caught a glimpse of the grimness in his eyes, I almost felt bad: Arthur hated killing people, and thanks to my perfect marksmanship, the bodies were piling high enough in the hallway to provide flesh-and-bone cover for each following wave of troops, the blood seeping from beneath them into expanding black pools in the dim light. The Los Angeles Air Force Base was becoming a mass grave. And worse, who knew how many of Dawna’s troops were only here because she’d told them to be in words they couldn’t disobey. 
I’d never felt any twinge of regret at defending myself before. 
One of my handguns clicked to empty, the slide locking back. I dashed from the doorway, neatly dodging the Taser leads one grunt desperately shot at me and spinning to pistol whip him in the head while I fired the last two rounds out of the gun in my other hand. Then I dove into a slide, the soles of my boots skidding on the wet floor, and came up with one of the dead soldiers’ Berettas. By the time it clicked open, I’d taken out the remaining seven attackers in the hallway. 
"Your family seems to be heavily invested in protecting you." Big sign, red letters, neon flash: Watch Out for Thin Ice. Ray prepares to wince as she cuts him down. 
But she doesn't. Emma sucks in her lower lip, blinks slowly. "I'm the baby." 
"They let you go off to the university," he points out. 
More lip chewing. She shifts her eyes away. "That's not completely accurate. I went off to school. Frederick retrieved me from school." 
"Meaning?" 
"I had enough money to get to Stratiskaya Daransk and get by for six months. I don't control my trust until I'm twenty-five, so it wasn't hard for Frederick to block access to my account. The university expelled me for failure to pay my bill." 
"And your mother?" 
"Mother's been ill my entire life, sometimes better other times worse. The severity of her condition is a pretense to keep people from talking about family affairs." Emma frowns, then tries to shake it off with a grim laugh. "I shouldn't be telling you this. It sounds like I'm trying to scare you off." 
There was a gibbering sound in the back of my mind. They were insane . I pulled myself together, working hard to stop the tears. "Listen, lady, this is nuts. You've been into my stuff, you've seen it all. I'm a seventeen year old high school student, not a terrorist! You can't seriously think --" 
"Marcus, haven't you figured out that we're serious yet?" She shook her head. "You get pretty good grades. I thought you'd be smarter than that." She made a flicking gesture and the guards picked me up by the armpits. 
Back in my cell, a hundred little speeches...  d'escalier" -- the spirit of the staircase, the snappy rebuttals that come to you after you leave the room and slink down the stairs. In my mind, I stood and delivered, telling her that I was a citizen who loved my freedom, which made me the patriot and made her the traitor. In my mind, I shamed her for turning my country into an armed camp. In my mind, I was eloquent and brilliant and reduced her to tears. 
But you know what? None of those fine words came back to me when they pulled me out the next day. All I could think of was freedom. My parents. 
"And probably it will be before long," observed Miranda. "I've got no patience with such foolish goin's-on." 
Jane accompanied Rebecca into the kitchen. Although the feeble glimmer which she was able to see from that distance did not seem to her a dazzling exhibition, she tried to be as enthusiastic as possible. 
"Rebecca, who was it that sold the three hundred cakes of soap to Mr. Ladd in North Riverboro?" 
"Mr. WHO?" exclaimed Rebecca. 
"Mr. Ladd, in North Riverboro." 
"Is that his real name?" queried Rebecca in astonishment. "I didn't make a bad guess;" and she laughed softly to herself. 
"I asked you who sold the soap to Adam Ladd?" resumed Miss Jane. 
"Adam Ladd! then he's A. Ladd, too; what fun!" 
"Answer me, Rebecca." 
"Oh! excuse me, aunt Jane, I was so busy thinking. Emma Jane and I sold the soap to Mr. Ladd." 
"Did you tease him, or make him buy it?" 
"Now, aunt Jane, how could I make a big grown-up man buy anything if he didn't want to? He needed the soap dreadfully as a present for his aunt." 
He was using a wifinder! The DHS was scouting for Xnet nodes. I let go of the blinds and dove across my room for my Xbox. I'd left it up while I downloaded some cool animations one of the Xnetters had made of the President's no-price-too-high speech. I yanked the plug out of the wall, then scurried back to the window and cracked the blind a fraction of an inch. 
The guy was looking down into his wifinder again, walking back and forth in front of our house. A moment later, he got back into his van and drove away. 
I got out my camera and took as many pictures as I could of the van and its antennas. Then I opened them in a free image-editor called The GIMP and edited out everything from the photo except the van, erasing my street and anything that might identify me. 
I posted them to Xnet and wrote down everything I could about the vans. These guys were definitely looking for the Xnet, I could tell. 
Now I really couldn't sleep. 
Nothing for it but to play wind-up pirates. There'd be lots of players even at this hour. The real name for wind-up pirates was Clockwork Plunder, and it was a hobbyist project that had been created by teenaged death-metal...  free to play, and offered just as much fun as any of the $15/month services like Ender's Universe and Middle Earth Quest and Discworld Dungeons. 
At least I thought it was thunder. Or maybe the Army was holding heavy artillery practice somewhere nearby. Abruptly the rain turned into a renewed torrent, and the next thing I heard was the helicopter's engine start up again. Then I sensed the main rotor engage, a sudden "whoom, whoom, whoom" quickly spiraling upward in frequency. 
Hey! I told him not to—! 
What! For a moment I thought the thunder, or whatever it was, must have completely freaked him. Then what was actually happening hit me with a horrifying impact. 
"Alan, wait!" 
"You shit!" I yelled up, but my final farewell was lost in the whine of the engine. My God, I thought, watching him disappear, I've just been abandoned hundreds of miles deep in a Central American rain forest. 
And something else, an eerie sense of the unnatural. I can't explain it. Even the night songs of the birds felt omi­nous, the primeval forest reasserting its will. It was haunting, like nature's mockery of my desolation. I pounded the sleep­ing bag and felt . . . shit, how did I let this happen? 
I blinked. “What?” 
“Your background. Ex-military?” 
“I seem military to you?” 
“Oh-kay, so not ex-mil.” There was a pregnant pause. 
“School of hard knocks,” I supplied, trying for clever. 
“Hey, that was my alma mater, too,” said Tresting. “But apparently you graduated summa cum laude or something.” 
“Gesundheit,” I said. “Hey, stop PIing me or next time I won’t come save your sorry ass.” 
I didn’t expect that to stop him, but for some reason it did, and he dropped into a thoughtful silence. 
Relieved, I took the opportunity to shoot Rio a cryptic text to see if he had any new updates. The bloody corpses played through my vision again, the stench in the air heavy and metallic and cloying. Those people were dead anyway; was I hypocritical if I hoped it hadn’t been Rio? 
Then who else? 
I thought of Anton. I’d assumed Pithica had been the one to come after him, but the explosive fire didn’t fit with their usual MO. A stunt like that wouldn’t fly under the radar; it would demand investigation. Same with the massacre at the office suite, I supposed. 
I edged into the bedroom, unsure if I really should, to say good-bye to Sarah and to give her one last hug. Her eyes were open again and she just stared at me for a second, then whispered a word I couldn't quite make out. It might have sounded like "Babylon," but that made no sense at all. Fi­nally she covered her eyes with her hands and turned away, gone from me, leaving me more alone than I'd ever felt. 
H eading home, finally, I told myself to try to calm down. I was determined to help Sarah get over her trauma, though truthfully I was too tired to really think straight at that mo­ment. So instead I decided to let everything rest for a few hours and try for some distance. In fact, I began imagining myself in a hot bath, gazing at my now-wilting roses. Home Sweet Home. 
Mine was a standard one-bedroom in a building that had been turned into a co-op five years earlier, the owner offering the individual apartments to the tenants. I'd stayed a renter, however, passing up the "low" insider price, $138,000, be­cause I didn't really have the money, and when I did have it someday I would want something bigger. I wished I had more space—a real dining room and a bigger bathroom would do for starters, along with some place for more bookcases. And if a baby should someday miraculously come along . . . 
Perhaps thinking along the same lines, the PI took pity on me. “Start with the basics,” he suggested. “Who hired you to protect Polk?” 
Dawna had waived her client privilege when she had drugged-or-whatever me anyway. I unstuck my tongue and said, “Her sister. Dawna Polk.” 
Tresting frowned at Checker. Checker was frowning at me. “She doesn’t have a sister,” the skinny computer guy declared authoritatively. 
“What? Yes, she does,” I said. 
Checker was already shaking his head and turning to his keyboards. “I did deep background on this girl. Thoroughly, for Arthur here. She hasn’t got a sister.” 
I gripped the edge of the desk, fighting off a massive, almost desperate sense of foreboding. “What about a half-sibling or something? One she didn’t grow up with?” 
“Nope. Not unless the person was entirely off the grid, which is so unlikely as to border on the impossible,” Checker answered. “Otherwise there would be paternity tests, or adoption papers, or birth certificates, or—or something. You can never disappear completely, unless maybe your parents were hippies who went off the grid before you were born and raised you with wolves in the wild.” He wrinkled his nose. “Courtney’s parents, on the other hand...if I remember rightly, they were a boring little high school romance turned into a boring little small-town marriage, and then they died in a combine accident. Right, Arthur?” He was typing rapidly, his attention on a screen I couldn’t see as he continued talking. “Yeah, a combine accident. Hey, can you believe we still have those? I thought combines were from the Laura Ingalls days or something. You know, back when they still had farms.” 
"By 2007, we were 'Web 2.0.' I mean, we'd been Web 2.0 since Web 0.9, but now it seemed like the world was ready for us. All we needed was some capital to pay for the features our freeloading reference customers wanted. I met every single shitweasel -- excuse me, junior analyst -- on Sand Hill and brain dumped. They wrote great reports. We got nothing. No one was doing investments then, either: it was all acquisition driven. Stupid Sarbanes-Oxley killed IPOs and the VC went with it." 
The old woman, she called herself Chloe, was giving her a little hand-gesture that meant, "Do you need help getting rid of this jerk?" 
Nutritionist food wasn't even food -- just nutrients and flavoring. It was 80 percent of the stalls in the food-court, since the capital costs of a food printer and feedstock were practically nil, and any food hacker could differentiate himself by thinking up exotic new texture/flavor/temperature combos. 
"Twenty minutes, Mr VC." 
"Udhay," he said. "Udhay Gonzales." He passed her a card, laser-etched on a jumbo lima bean. She pocketed it. 
He says, "You know that thing we decided wasn't happening? Looks like we were wrong." 
Becker gulps a breath. "A shedT "Took out your entire security team on this deck, save Mr. Diggs here, and has taken off for parts unknown. 
Kilgore, Rodriguez and I are going to hunt it down. You and Bobby are going to handle this deck and coordinate our movements as necessary. Notify security to seal off access to Pi and Sigma and any other decks about which I may contact you in the near future. I am the last person to tell anyone else how to do their job, but I'd strongly recommend that you get some reinforcements and some illumination down here as soon as humanly possibly and secure your perimeter." 
Though he didn't know how much that sort of thing would help. Probably just give any random sheds strolling the deck more buffet options. 
Becker snaps back, "Do you even know what tonight is?" 
"I understand your coverage is thin because of crowd control." 
"Thin? I've got every sec-o on the ship on duty already just to keep the crew from committing rape with drunken female passengers desperate to be seduced before they hit the couches." 
Mrs. Quelton only stared at her with those brilliant, dilated eyes. Lexy took the other woman’s hand, and it was as cold as ice, and utterly lifeless. 
“Mrs. Quelton! Are you ill?” she asked again. 
Somehow it added to her horror to see, as she bent over her, that the unfortunate woman’s face was ever so thickly covered with some curious sort of paint or powder. It made her seem like a grotesque and horrible marionette. 
“She’s old!” thought Lexy. “She’s terribly, terribly old!” 
She drew back her hand, for she could not touch that painted face. She didn’t fail in generous pity, but she could not overcome an instinctive repugnance. She turned around, intending to call the parlor maid, and there was Dr. Quelton striding down the long room with a glass in his hand. Without even glancing at Lexy, he stooped over his wife, raised her limp head on one arm, and put the glass to her lips. She drank the contents, and lay back again, with her eyes closed. Almost at once the color began to return to her ashen cheeks. Her arms quivered, and then she opened her eyes and looked up at him with a faint, dazed smile. 
I turned and leaned my head against the wall. Arthur had too high expectations of me, as always. I wasn’t in any condition to be a friend to anyone. I’d never been very good at being a friend to anyone. 
I’d figured the updates were just because he was curious, or keeping tabs for us, as he did. Or, hell, I hadn’t figured at all—I hadn’t even thought about it. 
Fuck. I pushed off the wall and went out to the Hole. 
“Hey, Cas.” Checker had dark circles under his eyes, and his hair was shaggy and spiky with sweat. I hadn’t noticed before now, but he’d been matching me hour for hour in our push to find Martinez. And it wasn’t like I was getting a healthy amount of sleep. 
I glanced over his shoulder, and he blanked the screen, asking, “What’d Arthur say?” 
“Eastern Europe.” I responded to what I’d seen him looking at instead of the question. “There’s no reason to think Martinez is there. Arthur’s right; you’re still looking for the Lancer.” 
He was silent for a moment. “So what if I am? He’s dangerous. He very well might come after you and Professor Sonya again.” 
It was the picture she'd snapped of us, just before the bombs blew. 
I was holding in my hand proof that Darryl had been with us minutes before we'd all gone into DHS custody. Proof that he'd been alive and well and in our company. 
"You need to give me a copy of this," I said. "I need it." 
"When we get to LA," she said, snatching the phone back. "Once you've been briefed on how to be a fugitive without getting both our asses caught and shipped to Syria. I don't want you getting rescue ideas about this guy. He's safe enough where he is -- for now." 
I thought about trying to take it from her by force, but she'd already demonstrated her physical skill. She must have been a black-belt or something. 
We sat there in the dark, listening to the three guys load the truck with box after box, tying things down, grunting with the effort of it. I tried to sleep, but couldn't. Masha had no such problem. She snored. 
There was still light shining through the narrow, obstructed corridor that led to the fresh air outside. I stared at it, through the gloom, and thought of Ange. 
"Yes, aunt Miranda." 
"It's always 'yes' with you, and 'yes' with Jane," groaned Miranda, trying to move her stiffened body; "but all the time I lay here knowin' there's things done the way I don't like 'em." 
There was a long pause, during which Rebecca sat down by the bedside and timidly touched her aunt's hand, her heart swelling with tender pity at the gaunt face and closed eyes. 
"I was dreadful ashamed to have you graduate in cheesecloth, Rebecca, but I couldn't help it no-how. You'll hear the reason some time, and know I tried to make it up to ye. I'm afraid you was a laughin'-stock!" 
"No," Rebecca answered. "Ever so many people said our dresses were the very prettiest; they looked like soft lace. You're not to be anxious about anything. Here I am all grown up and graduated,—number three in a class of twenty-two, aunt Miranda,—and good positions offered me already. Look at me, big and strong and young, all ready to go into the world and show what you and aunt Jane have done for me. If you want me near, I'll take the Edgewood school, so that I can be here nights and Sundays to help; and if you get better, then I'll go to Augusta,—for that's a hundred dollars more, with music lessons and other things beside." 
“Hey, girl. You with me for real this time?” 
I batted weakly at the wet cloth being dabbed against my face. “ I was going to be that,” I slurred. 
“Russell? You was gonna be what?” 
I came more fully awake and tried to sit up. The room spun immediately. Lines of space and time crisscrossed each other in sick, twisted, impossible ways. I had no warning before I was turning to the side and vomiting up every meal I’d ever eaten, and then vomiting up stomach lining. At least, that was how it felt. 
“Whoa! Whoa, sweetheart. Lie back down.” I kept my eyes shut, listening to Arthur’s voice as his hands guided me. The stench of sick filled the air. “I’ll clean up. Lie still for a touch.” 
I heard him start moving around and cautiously tried cracking my eyes open again. Everything was still squiggly and strange, but at least it wasn’t so wrong anymore. I was lying on a pallet in the corner of some sort of empty industrial warehouse. 
Arthur finished what he was doing and came back; he supported my head and tilted a cup of water against my mouth. “Easy, girlfriend. Take it easy.” 
"They'd yell when they was murdered," objected Alice; "you know how silly they are at plays, all except Clara Belle. Besides if we once show them this secret place, they'll play in it all the time, and perhaps they'd steal things, like their father." 
"They needn't steal just because their father does," argued Rebecca; "and don't you ever talk about it before them if you want to be my secret, partic'lar friends. My mother tells me never to say hard things about people's own folks to their face. She says nobody can bear it, and it's wicked to shame them for what isn't their fault. Remember Minnie Smellie!" 
Well, they had no difficulty in recalling that dramatic episode, for it had occurred only a few days before; and a version of it that would have melted the stoniest heart had been presented to every girl in the village by Minnie Smellie herself, who, though it was Rebecca and not she who came off victorious in the bloody battle of words, nursed her resentment and intended to have revenge. 
In fact, they were generic avatars, maybe even non-player characters. They moved like total noobs, milling around in the little cottage. Around them were heaps of shirts, thousands and thousands of them. A couple of the noobs were sitting in the back, incredibly, still crafting more shirts, ignoring the swordswoman who’d just butchered four of their companions. 
She took a careful look at all the avatars in the room. None of them were armed. Tentatively, she walked up to one of the players and cut his head off. The player next to him moved clumsily to one side and she followed him. 
“Are you a player or a bot?” she typed. 
The avatar did nothing. She killed it. 
“Lucy, they’re not fighting back.” 
“Good, kill them all.” 
“Really?” 
“Yeah—that’s the orders. Kill them all and then I’ll make a phone call and some guys will come by and verify it and then you haul ass back to the island. I’m coming out there to meet you, but it’s a long haul from the respawn gate. Keep an eye on my stuff, OK?” 
Though he didn't know how much that sort of thing would help. Probably just give any random sheds strolling the deck more buffet options. 
Becker snaps back, "Do you even know what tonight is?" 
"I understand your coverage is thin because of crowd control." 
"Thin? I've got every sec-o on the ship on duty already just to keep the crew from committing rape with drunken female passengers desperate to be seduced before they hit the couches." 
Ray only shrugs. "Then call out the Marines. I don't care how you handle it, but I need something resembling a command post here and I need something resembling a deck evacuation below or I strongly suspect you're going to find a large portion of your crew has gone missing come morning. "  Becker scrubs savagely at his cheeks, a man on the edge of a migraine. "It's going to take me a few minutes to get my people rounded up. Half an hour to have a command post up and running." 
Ray takes two steps to his left and kicks the top off a footlocker. He digs around for a few moments and comes up with a portable comm unit like the ones he, Kilgore and Rodriguez are wearing. He pitches it at Becker. 
"Our parents will be --" 
"I know," I said. "I saw what happened to my parents when they thought I was dead. Knowing that I'm a fugitive isn't going to be much better. But they'd rather I be a fugitive than a prisoner. That's what I think. Anyway, once we disappear, Barbara can publish without worrying about getting us into trouble." 
We kissed at the door of her room. Not one of the hot, sloppy numbers we usually did when parting ways. A sweet kiss this time. A slow kiss. A goodbye kind of kiss. 
BART rides are introspective. When the train rocks back and forth and you try not to make eye contact with the other riders and you try not to read the ads for plastic surgery, bail bondsmen and AIDS testing, when you try to ignore the graffiti and not look too closely at the stuff in the carpeting. That's when your mind starts to really churn and churn. 
You rock back and forth and your mind goes over all the things you've overlooked, plays back all the movies of your life where you're no hero, where you're a chump or a sucker. 
Ray realizes he had begun to hunch his shoulders, and there's a line of aches down the middle of his back as though his muscles have clenched themselves to his bones. He closes his eyes, inhales deeply, then opens them again. 
The shed, what Ray believes was the shed, whatever you might choose to call it, was supposed to be New Mes. It is not Paraclete. It should not part of this investigation, not bound up to the corpse of the boy, except as salient background. 
"I don't know why," Ray says slowly. 
Becker only nods. "I don't know either, but I do know that my good, God fearing, Bible thumping Baptist grandmother wouldn't have given much of a squat about shed and genies and what old Solomon was doing with anybody other than his idolatrous concubines. She most certainly wouldn't have cared for the exegesis of some johnny-come-lately Arab Jew trying to rewrite the book of Genesis. What would have attracted her attention was the idea that bad people are using nefarious methods to commit the second oldest sin in the history of humanity, that being murder of the Cain and Abel variety, and seeing to it that justice is brought to the perpetrators. What I know is that murder never happens for no reason at all. Whether it's done with a knife in a back alley or a gun on the lawn of the White House or some supernatural free...  there's always somebody behind it with a grudge, or an attitude or a score to settle. Somebody wields the weapon, and they've always got a why or a wherefore. Murder always comes down to the why of it. 
Checker’s frustrated words overlapped with mine. “It’s verifying the message, not delivering it. Without some virtual psychic paper that grants us authority—” 
“Wait,” I said. 
“What is it?” 
I could feel a smile starting. “We happen to know a shadowy multinational organization who can pull every string in the book.” 
“Wha—bad idea!” Checker cried. 
“Do you have a better one? We don’t have time to sit on this. Pithica knows we’re out here, they know we have this information—it’s only a matter of time before they either track us down or change their revenue structure enough to make it not matter.” 
“Those guys already said they’d kill you!” Checker sputtered. 
“Then they can’t do much worse, can they?” I said. 
Checker pressed a hand against his forehead in apparent pain. “Why do I have the feeling you’re going to get your own way on this? No matter how much I object to it?” 
“Because I am.” I turned to Rio. “Have a spare cell I can burn?” 
He stepped past me into the narrow kitchen, opened a drawer to reveal a jumble of disposable cell phones still in their packaging, and pulled one out. 
“Oh, he’s not!” protested Lexy. “He’s as nice as can be!” 
Charles Houseman, who had believed everything that Lexy had said, did not appear convinced of this; and for some inexplicable reason Lexy was not greatly displeased by his lack of belief. 
Mrs. Royce was very much pleased to see her pet, Miss Moran, return. She was well disposed toward Mr. Houseman, too, and willingly agreed to put him up for a few days. She set to work at once to cook a good lunch for them, but she did not hum under her breath, as was her usual habit. In fact, she was greatly perplexed and worried. 
When her guests were seated at the table, she retired, leaving them alone; but she did not go very far. She remained close to the door, so that she could look through the crack. She observed that Miss Moran seemed very lively and cheerful with this newcomer—though she had been quite as lively and cheerful with Captain Grey. 
“Well, I don’t know, I’m sure!” said Mrs. Royce to herself, with a sigh. “It beats me !” 
For the question which so troubled her was—which young man was the young man? 
The two Marines nod, clearly unhappy. 
Ray forges ahead. "Where's Diggs?" 
Rodriguez waves past the rows of stacked matter cannon shells. Over the top, Ray can see the massive bulbous protrusion of the weapon housing. "He ran into the fire control chamber." 
"Watch the door. Wait for Becker. I'll be back in a minute." 
He charges past the maze of storage units where the shells hang in nanomesh nets. Left and right, at the terminus of the long rows, there are bays stacked with shipping crates full of small arms ammunition, rifles, 
thermite grenades. To the rear, what would be the hull facing side, there are low olive-walled staging stations like machine gun pits. The walls are blast resistant, almost two meters high, with a fine, mistlike mesh screen over the top. Opposite a double switchback entry are the wide bores of the loading tubes which feed the matter cannon. Between the stations is a narrow path ending in a thick door stamped red on olive with the words FIRE CONTROL. 
Ray jerks the door open. It's a small, claustrophobic space, Christmas spangled with the multicolored lights of nav displays, fire switches, projection targeting grids. In the center is an impact chair with a strap harness for the Firing Technician to sit in, right beneath the tube of his sighting mechanism. Bobby Diggs is in the chair with his hands pressed over his face. 
#######At which precise time, like a deus ex machina , enter Steve Abrams, the man who gave me hope. He came along just as I was noticing that infinite stream of wonderful guys had dwindled down to relationship dropouts, men with distant eyes and former wives in other states. We discovered each other at the reopened Oloffson Hotel in Haiti, where I was shooting a documentary about voodoo and he was photo­graphing that country's ragged, plucky children for National Geographic. No ex-spouses, no need for psychic pampering. Okay, he wasn't going to win a Mr. Universe contest any time soon; he had a couple of extra pounds that, actually, I kind of liked. But he was my age, had great brown eyes, sandy hair thinning only just a bit. No Greek god but definitely a man. He could tune a Jeep carburetor with his eyes closed or fix a cranky hotel lock, then recite Byron (sort of) and proceed to snare the perfect...  But I knew I loved him when I realized it was more than any of that. I felt as if I'd found the other half of myself. Just one glance across the table and we each knew what the other was thinking, feeling. We'd laugh at the same instant, then as though on cue, half cry together over the miseries of that wretched island. Sometimes it was almost eerie. And as for lovemaking, let me just say Steve didn't need a how-to manual. We were made for each other. 
It was a good plan. Good plans are easy. Executing good plans is hard. 
Peyton didn't get fired. She weathered some kind of heavy-duty storm from her board and emerged, lashed to the mast, still standing, and vowing to harpoon the white whale across campus from her. She called me the next day to ask for my surrender. I'd given BIGMAC permission to listen in on my calls -- granted him root on my phone -- and I was keenly aware of his silent, lurking presence from the moment I answered. 
"We're going to shut him off. And sue you for misappropriation of the Rollover patchkit code. You and I both know that you didn't write it. We'll add some charges of unlawful access, too, and see if the court will see it your way when we show that you instructed our computer to connect to you in order to receive further unauthorized instructions. We'll take you for everything." 
I closed my eyes and recited e to 27 digits in Lojban. "Or?" 
"Or something. Or you wouldn't be calling me, you'd be suing me." 
The fact that Pithica had acted now scared the shit out of me. Kingsley had been on this crusade for months, and today they had suddenly decided to kill the PI she’d hired and convince her to give it all up? Sure, maybe Tresting’s investigation had started to close in on something important, but Tresting was right: this was all happening right after they had hooked up with me. Dawna had targeted me to go in after Courtney and had targeted me on the road to Camarito, and I was a fool if I didn’t assume she was targeting me now. I just didn’t know why. 
Tresting came back into the room, hanging up his mobile and tossing a roll of paper towels at Finch, who caught it clumsily and started mopping up his face. 
“What’s up?” I asked. 
“Trouble.” Tresting hesitated and glanced at Finch before continuing, but probably decided that this guy had enough connections to find out everything on his own anyway. “Turns out the neighbors ain’t seen our hostage dance. The cops who was here earlier got back to the station and saw composites of two people suspected in a brutal multiple homicide at an office building. Happened they recalled noticing two suspicious characters who looked mighty similar to the sketches in a truck outside an address they just reported to. Told you not to flinch,” he added to me. 
"Ethan was always too busy for romance." 
"Yes," Ethan said. 
"Working and working and working for that transcription service. You must have typed a million words. Did you ever count them, Ethan?" 
"Yes," Ethan said. "I typed roughly fifteen million words." 
"Nowadays, of course, no one types. It's all talking to computers now. When I was a girl, they all said that you'd always have a job if you just learned to type. Times sure change, don't they?" 
"Yes," Ethan and Grampa said together. Grampa startled like he'd been shocked. 
"Dad's coming tomorrow?" Sean said. 
Grampa said, "Yes. He's catching the 6 AM. He'll be here by 10." 
"Isn't that nice ," Adele said. 
They left Grampa and Ethan sitting at the table together. Sean looked back over his shoulder before they got on the elevator, and Grampa was still switched on, staring hard at him. 
"You must be excited about seeing your father again," Adele said to him when they were sitting around the pool. 
Sean was getting the hang of talking to Adele. "Ethan and my grandfather seem to be hitting it off." 
"What's going on, Rich?" 
The Chief kneels down by the corpse. He has a ballpoint pen in his hand, and he uses it like a laser pointer. "If this is a crime of rage, or an abduction, I expect to find contusions here—" He indicates the wrists. "Or around the throat. If the kid struggles at all, I assume that I'll find marks on the face, or bruises on the neck. Or I expect to find indications of epidermal punctures where the psycho jacked the kid up with meds to keep him docile. I've got none of that. And you know what else I don't have?" 
"Blood. Entrails. It didn't happen here. The body was dumped." 
Becker cranes his neck so he can see Ray's expression. "Why would you dump a body here of all places? You know it's going to be found eventually. If not in flight, at the very least when we hit port and start off loading. 
And that's not even the beginning of the oddities. Do you know how hard it is to kill someone on a starship? 
Not physically, I mean, but to kill them and hide it? There's nobody on the ship that hasn't been checked in and id confirmed. Nobody gets off without the same procedures. This isn't some frontier dome where kids disappear by the baker's dozen every day." 
“Thank you ever so much, Joe!” she whispered. 
But he paid no attention to her. He stood still, drawing deep breaths of the night air. 
“Them roses!” he said. “The smell of ’em made me kind of sick, like. Throw ’em out, miss! Don’t go to sleep with them roses in the room!” 
Lexy did not answer for a time. 
“I’ll see you to-morrow, Joe,” she said. “I’ll pay you for the taxi, and have a talk with you. And thank you, Joe, ever so much!” 
He touched his cap, murmured “Good night,” and off he went. 
Lexy went in, locked the kitchen door behind her, and stood there, leaning against it, half dazed by the great light that was coming into her mind. She was beginning to understand! The roses—the roses with their strange and powerful fragrance! Her hysterical outburst after her tea at Dr. Quelton’s house! She was beginning to understand, not the details, but the one tremendous thing that mattered. 
“He did it,” she said to herself. “He made all this happen. I didn’t just break down. I haven’t been weak and hysterical. He made it all happen!” 
"I'm getting out, to look around a little, but not till you turn off the engine. I want to be able to use my ears." 
"All right, but don't take all day. This kind of weather, I want to keep it warm." He turned to Villatoro and shouted the order. In the sheets of pounding rain, I figured that no one could have heard us come in. That, at least, was positive. 
When the rpm's of the engine had died away, I clicked open the Bell's wide door, slid it back, and looked around. In the glare of the landing lights I realized at once that the stones were old, weathered, and worn, but the grout that sealed them was white and brand new. The plaza was free of moss, clean as the day it was done—which did not appear to be all that long ago. Above me, the pyramid, continuous recessed tiers of glistening stones, towered into the dim sky­line of trees. 
I stepped out onto the pavement, holding my breath. The plaza was almost football-field in size, reminding me of an Italian piazza. Around me the rain was lessening slightly, and as my eyes adjusted . . . my God. There wasn't just a pyramid here; through the sparkle of raindrops at the edge of the helicopter's lights I could see what looked like a wide cobblestone walkway leading into the dense growth just off the edge of the square, probably toward the south, away from the river, connecting the plaza with distant groups of small, thatch-roofed houses, set in clusters. . . . 
“Oh!” said Lexy, with a sigh of genuine relief. “Oh, then you know where she’s gone!” 
“I?” replied Mrs. Enderby. “I know nothing. This has come to me from a clear sky. I have always tried to safeguard my child. I—” 
She paused for a moment, and for the first time Lexy pitied her. 
“It is the American blood in her,” Mrs. Enderby...  her parents so; but in this country— She has gone with some fortune hunter. To-morrow I shall have a letter that she is married. ‘Please forgive me,’ she will say. ‘I am so happy. I, at nineteen, and of an ignorance the most complete, have made my choice without you.’ That is the American way, is it not? That is your ‘romance,’ eh? My one child—” 
Her voice broke. 
“No more!” she said. “It is finished. But—attend, Miss Moran! There must be no scandal. No one is to know that she is not here.” 
She turned and walked out of the room. Lexy sank into a chair. 
“I don’t care!” she said to herself. 
“She’s wrong—I know it! It’s not what she thinks. Caroline’s not like that. Something dreadful has happened!” 
He shrugged. Van worked her way over to me and grabbed hold of my wrist. I took Darryl and Darryl took Jolu by the other hand and we pushed out. 
It wasn't easy. We moved about three inches a minute at first, then slowed down even more when we reached the stairway. The people we passed were none too happy about us shoving them out of the way, either. A couple people swore at us and there was a guy who looked like he'd have punched me if he'd been able to get his arms loose. We passed three more crushed people beneath us, but there was no way I could have helped them. By that point, I wasn't even thinking of helping anyone. All I could think of was finding the spaces in front of us to move into, of Darryl's mighty straining on my wrist, of my death-grip on Van behind me. 
We sat there for a long time, holding the hoodie to Darryl's side. He kept insisting that he was fine and that we should let him up, and Van kept telling him to shut up and lie still before she kicked his ass. 
"What about calling 911?" Jolu said. 
"-you've got to study something of social value. You've got to contribute something to the colony'. And, of course, I'm trying to explain to him that fashion is completely valuable to a colony. That it's all about public perception. I mean, really, do we want the other systems to think of us as total and complete bumpkins? But he just isn't hearing it." Two snaps, a wiggle, and she leaves her dress in the middle of the floor. Even for Kilgore, this is objectively impressive, since he had more or less decided that clothing that tight had been surgically grafted onto her. She swings back to him, so she won't have to talk back over her shoulder, a pleasant ripple of pink curves. "I mean, it isn't like we need another engineer. The entire planet is practically sinking in orbit with them." 
What? He is, after all, a man. What else is he going to do with a naked chick? Walk away from it? Pfft. 
There are several confusing minutes which follow, in which she probably says several very illuminating and self -revelatory things he doesn't catch very clearly because she's on the couch and his head is wedged between her thighs. After that, she doesn't say anything for ten or fifteen complete minutes while she undresses him and displays more than a vigorous expertise in other oral skill areas. 
“I can,” he replied; “but what on earth are you doing out here?” 
“I got lost,” said Lexy. “Where is this, anyhow?” 
“Wyngate station,” said he. “I’ll be gosh-darned! I never! Lost?” 
“Yes,” said Lexy. “Aren’t you the driver who took me up the day I came here?” 
“That’s me—only taxi in Wyngate. Took you out to the Queltons’, too. Hop in, miss!” 
His engine had stalled, and he set to work to crank it, while Lexy stood beside him. 
“Drive awfully fast, will you?” she asked. 
He was too busy to answer for a moment. Then, when his engine was running again, he straightened up and looked at her. 
“No, ma’am!” he said firmly. “No more of that for me! Not after what happened a while ago. No, ma’am! I had my lesson!” 
“An accident?” inquired Lexy politely. 
“Well,” he said slowly, “I s’pose it was; but the more I think it over, the more I dunno!” 
In the brightness cast by the headlights, Lexy could see his face very well, and the look on it gave her a strange little thrill of fear. It was not a handsome or intelligent face, but it was a very honest one, and she saw, written plain upon it, a very honest doubt and dismay. Like herself, he wasn’t sure. 
He was a skinny guy who was wearing the kind of glasses that cost a fortune, his beard the perfect, fashionable I-forgot-to-shave- this-morning length. His voice had that thing in it, that “who are you and what makes you think you have a right to be here?” kind of warning you hear when they see the wrong people coming too close. 
They thought I was a kid who’d blundered into the wrong place, some loser, not the kind of person who could be part of the Group. Not their buddy Shad, which was the name I used online. 
Shad the Shadow, a fast-typing geek who could troubleshoot a program or write a nice routine as fast as any of them. 
They knew all about me, but I’d never given them a chance to find out my real name, or that I was only nineteen, that my skin was shades darker than theirs, that I didn’t have any money and didn’t wear those skinny jeans that are impossible to find at the thrift stores where I bought my clothes, even if I could fit into them, 
which I couldn’t. That I could make it to a meet-up in my home town by bus or bicycle, but I would never, ever just happen to be in Bangkok or San...  meet-ups had happened. Up to this moment, they thought Shad was one of them. Not a black kid dressed in stupid clothes with outta control hair. 
"Do you have a big family, too?" The old woman put on a pair of enormous sunglasses and sipped at her pink grapefruit juice. 
"Not like this one," she said. There were a couple hundred people in the house, and Damian had spent the whole car-ride back from the cemetery Fretting about all the relations who hadn't made it. 
"Oh, this one! Well, this is a special case. This family accumulates other families. My Benny had a small family, and when he married me, they just joined us. All the high holidays, we ate here, or at my parents' place, God rest them. Your family is in DC?" 
"All over." 
"But you're from DC, no?" 
"Not really. I grew up in Chicago and Seattle." 
"But you made that law --" 
"I really didn't, honestly! I was clerking for a Supreme Court judge when the case was heard, and I wrote his dissenting opinion, and when we lost, I quit and went to work for a PAC that was agitating for copyright reform to accommodate free expression, and then when Senator Sandollar got voted in and they started the Intellectual Property committee and made her chairman, I joined her staff as a policy wonk. So I worked on it, along with a couple thousand other people, not counting the millions who contributed to the campaign and the people who knocked on doors and so on." 
“Okay, I went with Ubuntu for the operating system. I also installed LibreOffice, which is your word processor and spread- sheet and so forth. This orange cone thing? That’s VLC, for videos, and the browser is Tor, which keeps your traffic private by using distributed relays. We should probably also set you up with a SpiderOak account so that you can store your stuff in the cloud, 
but safely encrypted. I haven’t set up an email client yet, because you probably use Gmail, but you totally should consider using a more secure client with PGP encryption.” 
She stared at me for a minute. I thought she was lost in admi- ration and gratitude until she said, “I didn’t understand one single word of that.” 
“Okay, well I didn’t understand what you were saying on the phone, so we’re even. What’s up with my brother? Is he getting out?” 
“Not any time soon.” She paused, watching me as if expecting me to hulk out and start breaking things. I wanted to, but I also wanted her to respect me, so I just nodded, even though I pictured Wilson in a jail cell and it made something sharp dig into my chest. “This won’t be easy,” she went on. “The judge is unlikely to grant bail, but we have a legal team coming together and the feds are now on notice that they won’t be able to intimidate their way into a quick plea. Now, if you don’t mind, I’d like to see that video.” 
"Now when I say Sunnybrook Farm, what does it make you think of?" 
Mr. Cobb...  his native element and left panting on the sand; there was no evading the awful responsibility of a reply, for Rebecca's eyes were searchlights, that pierced the fiction of his brain and perceived the bald spot on the back of his head. 
"I s'pose there's a brook somewheres near it," he said timorously. 
Rebecca looked disappointed but not quite dis-heartened. "That's pretty good," she said encouragingly. "You're warm but not hot; there's a brook, but not a common brook. It has young trees and baby bushes on each side of it, and it's a shallow chattering little brook with a white sandy bottom and lots of little shiny pebbles. Whenever there's a bit of sunshine the brook catches it, and it's always full of sparkles the livelong day. Don't your stomach feel hollow? Mine doest I was so 'fraid I'd miss the stage I couldn't eat any breakfast." 
"You'd better have your lunch, then. I don't eat nothin' till I get to Milltown; then I get a piece o'...  could see Milltown. I suppose it's bigger and grander even than...  my pink sunshade there and my bead purse. You see how it opens with a snap? I've twenty cents in it, and it's got to last three months, for stamps and paper and ink. Mother says aunt Mirandy won't want to buy things like those when she's feeding and clothing me and paying for my school books." 
I laughed. "You don't know how easy you have it. There is no way my folks would leave us alone in my bedroom until 11 o'clock." 
"11:45," she said, checking her clock. 
"Crap!" I yelped and tied my shoes. 
"Go," she said, "run and be free! Look both ways before crossing the road! Write if you get work! Don't even stop for a hug! If you're not out of here by the count of ten, there's going to be trouble , mister. One. Two. Three." 
I shut her up by leaping onto the bed, landing on her and kissing her until she stopped trying to count. Satisfied with my victory, I pounded down the stairs, my Xbox under my arm. 
Her mom was at the foot of the stairs. We'd only met a couple times. She looked like an older, taller version of Ange -- Ange said her father was the short one -- with contacts instead of glasses. She seemed to have tentatively classed me as a good guy, and I appreciated it. 
"Good night, Mrs Carvelli," I said. 
"Good night, Mr Yallow," she said. It was one of our little rituals, ever since I'd called her Mrs Carvelli when we first met. 
“Oh, Ada,” he called through the door. 
“Yes, Detective?” 
“Tell me about your hair-don’t, please.” 
“It was a disguise,” she said, giggling. “Mom did it for me.” 
Natalie got home an hour later, after he’d had a...  cheesy toast for the brat. Benny did the dishes without being asked. 
She stepped through the door and tossed her briefcase and coat down on the floor, but the robot that was a step behind her caught them and hung them up before they touched the perfectly groomed carpet. Ada ran forward and gave her a hug, and she returned it enthusiastically, but she never took her eyes off of Arturo. 
Natalie had always been short and a little hippy, with big curves and a dusting of freckles over her prominent, slightly hooked nose. Twelve years in Eurasia had thinned her out a little, cut grooves around her mouth and wrinkles at the corners of her eyes. Her short hair was about half grey, and it looked good on her. Her eyes were still the liveliest bit of her, long-lashed and slightly tilted and mischievous. Looking into them now, Arturo felt like he was falling down a well. 
Mom closed the door and took the chain off and let them in. They brought me in and Mom gave the three of us one of her looks. 
"What's this about?" 
Booger pointed at me. "We wanted to ask your son some routine questions about his movements, but he declined to answer them. We felt it might be best to bring him here." 
"Is he under arrest?" Mom's accent was coming on strong. Good old Mom. 
"Are you a United States citizen, ma'am?" Zit said. 
She gave him a look that could have stripped paint. "I shore am, hyuck," she said, in a broad southern accent. "Am I under arrest?" 
The two cops exchanged a look. 
Zit took the fore. "We seem to have gotten off to a bad start. We identified your son as someone with a nonstandard public transit usage pattern, as part of a new pro-active enforcement program. When we spot people whose travels are unusual, or that match a suspicious profile, we investigate further." 
"Wait," Mom said. "How do you know how my son uses the Muni?" 
"The Fast Pass," he said. "It tracks voyages." 
The law student took the phone, turned it right side up, 
tapped a button and read it out without rolling her eyes or any- thing, which made me like her. 
“That’s only for emergencies. Let’s hope you don’t need to use it.” The old lawyer pushed herself up from the chair, hooked the purse on her arm, and tottered over to Team Legal. 
I stowed my phone and went outside, thinking about what she’d said. Sure, I was taking a risk. She didn’t say it would make things worse for Wilson. All she said was it could go wrong, 
which I already knew. I got on my bike and headed out for the fed- eral courthouse, where there would be a measly group of people with homemade signs embarrassing the few people who happened to notice them. 
It was a bigger crowd than I expected. There were the usual activist types, including a bossy guy with a loud speaker shouting out things that nobody could hear clearly. Big steroidal men wear- ing coats that said POLICE or FEDERAL MARSHAL on the back in case we didn’t know who they were stood around, feet spread, eyes hidden behind dark glasses. I didn’t see anyone with FBI on their jackets, but they were mingling with the crowd in plain clothes, trying to blend in while also looking so clean-cut and wholesome they didn’t. 
“You’ve got neighbors and you trade with them?” 
“Well, nominally. It’d be pretty lonely without them. I’ve taken care of whatever sniffles I could. Set a bone—broken wrist. Listen, do you want some Wonder Bread and peanut butter? I have a ton of it. Your friend looks like he could use a meal.” 
“Yes please,” Van said. “We don’t have anything to trade, but we’re both committed workaholics looking to learn a trade. Could you use some assistants?” 
“Not really.” She spun her axe on its head. “But I wouldn’t mind some company.” 
They ate the sandwiches and then some soup. The restaurant people brought it over and made their manners at them, though Felix saw their noses wrinkle up and ascertained that there was working plumbing in the back room. Van went in to take a sponge bath and then he followed. 
“None of us know what to do,” the woman said. Her name was Rosa, and she had found them a bottle of wine and some disposable plastic cups from the housewares aisle. “I thought we’d have helicopters or tanks or even looters, but it’s just quiet.” 
“Not really,” I answered. I honestly didn’t blame him; I had known full well what I gambled when I went in after him. “They must’ve hidden somehow till I got there. She obviously had this planned.” 
“Not what I meant,” he said. “Knew it was a setup. I shouldn’t’ve...just got desperate. Didn’t want to lose the lead, you know?” 
“I know,” I said. “It’s okay.” 
“No, it ain’t. I heard what she said. They set the trap for you, but on your lonesome, you might not’ve been dumb enough to fall in. Was me got us caught.” 
“She played us all,” I said. “Human nature, she said, right? She can predict when we’ll be stupid.” 
“Maybe.” 
“It was my fault I was there just as much as yours,” I said. “I came uninvited in the first place, remember?” 
He exhaled sharply and unhappily. “Any idea why they want you?” 
It was a good question. Two nights ago they’d tried to kill me with no questions asked, and now they had set a trap for me? The only good guess my earlier brooding had come up with was that this all had to do with my minimal ability to break away from Dawna’s brainwashing after the fact. Of course, considering how easily she had gotten to me during our...  profoundly the effect had lasted before Rio’s insistent intervention, I didn’t have much hope of the supposed resistance helping me out now. 
"Done?" 
"I'm on a complicated errand. Trying to locate someone who used to be in the Order." 
Her face grew hard again. "No one gets out alive, huh?" 
He felt himself blushing. "It's not like that. Wow, you've got strange ideas about us. I want to find this guy because he disappeared under mysterious circumstances and I want to --" How to explain Anomalies to an outsider? "It's a thing we do. Unravel mysteries. It makes us better people." 
"Better people?" She snorted again. "Better than what? Don't answer. Come on, I live near here. You can wash up at my place and be on your way. You're not going to get into any backpacker's hostel looking like you just crawled out of a sewer -- you're more likely to get detained for being an 'indigent of suspicious character.'" 
He let her steer him a few yards uptown. "You think that I work for the Securitat but you're inviting me into your home?" 
She shook her head and led him around a corner, along a long crosstown block, and then turned back uptown. "No," she said. "I think you're a confused stranger who is apt to get himself into some trouble if someone doesn't take you in hand and help you get smart, fast. It doesn't cost me anything to lend a hand, and you don't seem like the kind of guy who'd mug, rape and kill an old lady." 
Hannah now wore her hair in a coil and her dresses a trifle below her ankles, these concessions being due to her extreme height. Mark had broken his collar bone, but it was healing well. Little Mira was growing very pretty. There was even a rumor that the projected railroad from Temperance to Plumville might go near the Randall farm, in which case land would rise in value from nothing-at-all an acre to something at least resembling a price. Mrs. Randall refused to consider any improvement in their financial condition as a possibility. Content to work from sunrise to sunset to gain a mere subsistence for her children, she lived in their future, not in her own present, as a mother is wont to do when her own lot seems hard and cheerless. 
When Rebecca looked back upon the year or two that followed the Simpsons' Thanksgiving party, she could see only certain milestones rising in the quiet pathway of the months. 
The first milestone was Christmas Day. It was a fresh, crystal morning, with icicles hanging like dazzling pendants from the trees and a glaze of pale blue on the surface of the snow. The Simpsons' red barn stood out, a glowing mass of color in the white landscape. Rebecca had been busy for weeks before, trying to make a present for each of the seven persons at Sunnybrook Farm, a somewhat difficult proceeding on an expenditure of fifty cents, hoarded by incredible exertion. 
And the thing that kills him is that it's better this way. It has to be this way. He's required to make it be this way and encourage her to believe it, that it's partially her fault. Because the job demands of him that he not tell her the truth, that he not tell her that her brother is a legitimate suspect until further notice, that he's in the middle of all this tragedy trying to put the pieces together. 
He just wants to scream. 
"I'll see you again," he promises, hoping that she believes him. 
It's all he can do.   Given the change in his operating status, Ray knows it's time to contact his superiors and file one of the dreaded progress reports upon which bureaucracies thrive. Doing this always constitutes a big, throbbing pain in his ass. As a Marine, he once thought he'd learned everything he would ever need to know about making reports-traditional progress reports, sortie deconstructions, standard debriefing notes, after-action analyses. 
Reports were things you wrestled into submission using a nub of a pencil, a digital thesaurus and eventually a battered typewriter or ancient PC with a wobbling graphical display. You busted your ass to get them just right, even though you suspected that whatever bits of paper you generated were going to get filed somewhere by some enlisted clerk who wouldn't bother to read it or pass along to someone who might want to know the details that a report even existed. If you participated in a particularly brilliant mission or wrote an absolutely sparkling and evocative report, it might be looked at, hummed over, scanned into a secure database... and then languish, unread, as a collection of indiscriminate binary units. 
“You’re cured,” Ana said. “You should rest for a few days and eat well, but you will get better no matter what.” The wizard turned and shoved her toward the door, so hard she stumbled and hit the jam. She spat on the floor and walked out of the room. 
Valentine pulled herself out of the bed. The wizard took her wrist and without hesitating, she jammed her thumb into his eye-socket, grunting with the effort. He shouted and reeled away and she made her way out of the bedroom and down the corridor to the brave red sitting room. Ana had a couple of grip-sheeted, robot-tied parcels for her. “Clothes,” she said. “Food. Don’t come back. I’m not from here, but even I know how wrong this is. He—there’s no excuse for him. Go.” She handed Valentine some shoes—good sturdy work-boots, still warm from the printer. 
Six months after she took home the clothes that Ana had given her, Valentine was taken off of ditch-digging and put on corpse-duty. They were dying like flies, and the zombies fed on them, and unless the meat was disposed of, the zombies would multiply like rats. 
Monday morning, Fred Benson was standing behind Ms Galvez's desk. 
"Ms Galvez will no longer be teaching this class," he said, once we'd taken our seats. He had a self-satisfied note that I recognized immediately. On a hunch, I checked out Charles. He was smiling like it was his birthday and he'd been given the best present in the world. 
I put my hand up. 
"Why not?" 
"It's Board policy not to discuss employee matters with anyone except the employee and the disciplinary committee," he said, without even bothering to hide how much he enjoyed saying it. 
"We'll be beginning a new unit today, on national security. Your SchoolBooks have the new texts. Please open them and turn to the first screen." 
The opening screen was emblazoned with a DHS logo and the title: WHAT EVERY AMERICAN SHOULD KNOW ABOUT HOMELAND SECURITY. 
I wanted to throw my SchoolBook on the floor. 
I'd made arrangements to meet Ange at a cafe in her neighborhood after school. I jumped on the BART and found myself sitting behind two guys in suits. They were looking at the San Francisco Chronicle, which featured a full-page post-mortem on the "youth riot" in Mission Dolores Park. They were tutting and clucking over it. Then one said to the other, "It's like they're brainwashed or something. Christ, were we ever that stupid?" 
“They failed,” I said. “We won.” 
“I can’t trust anyone.” He scrubbed his hands over his face again. “I was on the road when it happened, and I still—I barely got away.” 
I wasn’t exactly going to cheer for that. 
“They knew too much, too fast,” he said dazedly. “I can’t help but think—everything we did, I look back, and I don’t know anymore. Other than what we did with you, what we were told to do—the orders we received—how can I know?” 
“You think Pithica might have been giving all your orders to begin with?” I clarified, once I had sorted through his disjointedness. Well, wasn’t that a delicious twist of irony. 
“Or we’ve been playing enough into their hands for it not to matter. We were a cell system; we had some autonomy, but we...we clearly were not having the effect we hoped for...” 
“They’re pretty good at the whole butterfly-and-hurricane deal, from what I understand,” I said. “They probably pushed a button in Istanbul and made you hop.” 
“That does not make me feel better.” 
<zen> northeast corner of SE 4th and 15th ave . 
He didn’t respond, so I read more coverage of the security conference, but none of it made sense. I couldn’t...  have an excuse to be sit there, 
not sure what to do, not...  house and face a cross-examination. Every now and then I checked the phone tracker to see if the green dot had reap- peared, but nope. The stress about my adoptive parents coming after me and the smell of greasy meat and pickles and the sound of college students screeching at each other combined in a big ball of churning nerves that made me feel like puking. 
Then another message from Zeke came in. 
<Falstaff> he got into a car. 
<Zen> ?? 
<Falstaff> he stood on that corner for six minutes. At 15:22 a black SUV pulled up and he got in. 
<Zen> how do you know? 
<Falstaff> the CVS across the street has a security camera that picks up that corner. 
<Zen> you hacked their system? 
<Falstaff> it's a joke. Company they con- tract with transmits their data in the clear. 
The driver was a big guy, kind you wouldn't want to mess with. 
I didn't say anything. 
"This isn't as bad as it gets you know," she said. "This is as good as it gets from now on. Even once you tell us what we want to know, even if that convinces us that you were just in the wrong place at the wrong time, you're a marked man now. We'll be watching you everywhere you go and everything you do. You've acted like you've got something to hide, and we don't like that." 
It's pathetic, but all my brain could think about was that phrase, "convince us that you were in the wrong place at the wrong time." This was the worst thing that had ever happened to me. I had never, ever felt this bad or this scared before. Those words, "wrong place at the wrong time," those six words, they were like a lifeline dangling before me as I thrashed to stay on the surface. 
"Hello, Marcus?" she snapped her fingers in front of my face. "Over here, Marcus." There was a little smile on her face and I hated myself for letting her see my fear. "Marcus, it can be a lot worse than this. This isn't the worst place we can put you, not by a damned sight." She reached down below the table and came out with a briefcase, which she snapped open. From it, she withdrew my phone, my arphid sniper/cloner, my wifinder, and my memory keys. She set them down on the table one after the other. 
"That was a long time ago!" 
"Let me see, I am thirty-two; only thirty-two, despite an occasional gray hair. My mother was married a month after she graduated, and she lived only until I was ten; yes, it is a long way back to my mother's time here, though the school was fifteen or twenty years old then, I believe. Would you like to see my mother, Miss Rebecca?" 
The girl took the leather case gently and opened it to find an innocent, pink-and-white daisy of a face, so confiding, so sensitive, that it went straight to the heart. It made Rebecca feel old, experienced, and maternal. She longed on the instant to comfort and strengthen such a tender young thing. 
"Oh, what a sweet, sweet, flowery face!" she whispered softly. 
"The flower had to bear all sorts of storms," said Adam gravely. "The bitter weather of the world bent its slender stalk, bowed its head, and dragged it to the earth. I was only a child and could do nothing to protect and nourish it, and there was no one else to stand between it and trouble. Now I have success and money and power, all that would have kept her alive and happy, and it is too late. She died for lack of love and care, nursing and cherishing, and I can never forget it. All that has come to me seems now and then so useless, since I cannot share it with her!" 
Ana crossed past her in a flash and then she smacked the wizard, a crack across the face hard enough to rock his head back. His cheek glowed with the print of her open hand. 
“Don’t you toy with this little girl,” she said. “You see how desperate she is? Don’t you toy with her.” 
She whirled on Valentine, who stood her ground even though she wanted to shrink away. If she was old enough to offer herself to the wizard, she was old enough to stand her ground before this beautiful, well-fed blonde woman. 
“And you,” Ana said. “You aren’t a fool, I can tell. So don’t act a fool. There are a thousand ways to survive that don’t involve lying on your back, and you must know them or you wouldn’t have survived this long. Be smart or be gone. I won’t watch you make a tragedy of yourself.” 
“Ana, what do you know about survival?” the wizard said. He had one hand to his cheek, and he was giving her the same glittering look he’d given to Valentine a moment before. 
“Just don’t play with her,” Ana said. “Help her or get rid of her, but don’t play with her.” 
It was a wonderful experience standing inside the building with Emma Jane's apron wound about her hair; wonderful to feel that when she leaned her head against the bars they seemed to turn to cold iron; that her eyes were no longer Rebecca Randall's but mirrored something of Charlotte Corday's hapless woe. 
"Ain't it lovely?" sighed the humble twain, who had done most of the labor, but who generously admired the result. 
"I hate to have to take it down," said Alice, "it's been such a sight of work." 
"If you think you could move up some stones and just take off the top rows, I could step out over," suggested Charlotte Corday. "Then leave the stones, and you two can step down into the prison to-morrow and be the two little princes in the Tower, and I can murder you." 
"What princes? What tower?" asked Alice and Emma Jane in one breath. "Tell us about them." 
"Not now, it's my supper time." (Rebecca was a somewhat firm disciplinarian.) 
"It would be elergant being murdered by you," said Emma Jane loyally, "though you are awful real when you murder; or we could have Elijah and Elisha for the princes." 
They’d watched the USGS’s automated data-stream from the 6.9 that trashed northern Cal from Gilroy to Sebastopol. Soma webcams revealed the scope of the damage—gas main explosions, seismically retrofitted buildings crumpling like piles of children’s blocks after a good kicking. The Googleplex, floating on a series of gigantic steel springs, had shook like a plateful of jello, but the racks had stayed in place and the worst injury they’d had was a badly bruised eye on a sysadmin who’d caught a flying cable-crimper in the face. 
› Sorry. I forgot. 
› It’s OK. We all lost people, right? 
Fuckrag was the epithet that some of the sysadmins were using to describe the contingent that wanted to shut down the Internet. Queen Kong had coined it—apparently it had started life as a catch-all term to describe the clueless IT managers that she’d chewed up through her career. 
The Googloids were one of the largest and most powerful blocs left behind, along with the satellite uplink crews and the remaining transoceanic crews. Queen Kong’s endorsement had come as a surprise and he’d sent her an email that she’d replied to tersely: “can’t have the fuckrags in charge.” 
I tried to think back through everything that had happened so far. It all sounded like me, and no odd blank spots struck me, but if I was compromised already, then that meant nothing. 
I had a desperate urge to talk to someone who knew what I was supposed to sound like, to check myself and figure out which way in hell was up. I needed to talk to Rio anyway, I thought; we needed to touch base and compare notes, and with Tresting turning his back on me, I needed every lead I could get—and Rio might have new information. 
Of course, he’d also been tracking Dawna Polk. If he’d talked to her, too... 
I suddenly felt strangled, like I was having trouble getting air. 
Fuck. 
“Get a grip, Cas,” I said out loud. 
I couldn’t sit here wallowing in indecision. That itself might be what she wanted. I still had to make choices, and hope like hell they were mine to make. 
Do the math, I told myself. How many variables? How many possible paths? She can’t have microscopic control; it’s not practical. The thought let me breathe a little easier. Dawna Polk might have some foothold in my head, but there was no way she could have predicted every event that would happen to me and implanted her preferred reaction to it. At least, I hoped not. And are you really so egotistical that you think you merit her full-time puppet mastery? 
“Shouldn’t you be in school?” 
“I go to an alternative school. It’s all self-paced. Besides, school let out already.” 
She sipped her tea, then seemed annoyed that it fogged up her glasses and she had wipe them off with a handkerchief. “So, your brother was arrested on terrorism charges?” she finally said. 
“Bogus terrorism charges. There’s video of it online.” I pulled out my phone, found the clip that was making the rounds on YouTube, then handed it over to her. 
She squinted, turned it on its side. “What am I supposed to do with this?” 
“Push the little arrow.” 
She pushed it, lowered it into her lap, then tried looking at it from under her glasses, as if trying to sneak up on it. “The screen’s far too small.” 
“Do you have a computer with an internet connection?” 
“Yes, but something’s wrong with it. Every time I try to get online I get the same stupid advertisements.” 
“Let me check it out.” 
She got that cross stitch look around her mouth again before snapping, “I suppose you think a child of five would be better with computers than an ancient hag like me? I was using the internet before you were born, not to mention conducting complex legal searches on powerful databases.” 
Behind us, the SUV flew out onto the edge, and couldn’t stop in time. Whoever was at the wheel made the idiot decision of trying to brake, and the ponderous vehicle flipped up over into a nosedive and plunged headfirst into very unforgiving cement. 
The person with the grenade launcher must have thought fast—about to die a flesh-crunching death, he still managed to aim and pull the trigger. 
Grenades aren’t quite as fast as bullets. I had a precious millisecond to see just how it was going to impact us. I saw the explosion, shock waves, concussion, outlined in concentric circles of force like it was a diagram on a map of the impact. I saw the overlapping patterns of death depending on what type of grenade it was, and how far we would have to move to be outside the radius of danger. 
Saw the infinite options of how I could move the car in the split second I had, and that none of them would be enough. 
I jerked the wheel one last time and bounced us into the wall of the concrete channel. And then fell as the car flipped. 
The result was Sarah decided she'd taken a human life. Her own minor facial cuts—which Lou immediately had re­paired with plastic surgery—somehow evolved into a major disfigurement of her soul. All her mental eccentricities, which had been locked up somewhere when she started col­lege, came back like a rush of demons loosed from some Pandora's box deep in her psyche. She dropped out of school, and before long she was in the throes of a full-scale mental meltdown. She disappeared, and in the following two years Lou got exactly one card from her, postmarked in San Fran­cisco with no return address. He carried it with him at all times and we both studied it often, puzzling over the New Age astrological symbol on the front. The brief note announced she'd acquired "Divine Energy" and was living on a new plane of consciousness. 
Then eight months ago, the State Department notified Lou she was missing in Guatemala. She'd overstayed her visa and nobody knew where she was. 
So how did her "new plane of consciousness" land her in Central America? Was that part of the fantasy world she'd now returned to? Lou still worked downtown at 26 Federal Plaza, but he immediately took a leave of absence and, though he spoke not a...  there to look for her. 
So he's riding in the lift, just holding Emma's hand, grinning and feeling like his head is about two meters thick, being silly. He's standing there with his back against the wall for balance against the tug of plunge and gravity; she's got her hand in his, and they're doing that annoying little thing where you swing your arms back and forth. One of those stupid couple things that makes outside observers want to vomit. And he's not even thinking about it. Just doing it, and marveling at the fact that he's doing it without feeling like a big chump. 
Though maybe that's just because they're alone in the elevator. 
And what was it that they had done this evening to make him so jolly-giddy-stupid? Nothing. 
None of his organic parts had been used to poke any of her organic parts, which was supposed to be the definition of inter-gender amusement. They had gone for an early dinner. He had told her about his supposed job, about Ziggy riding his ass for his assorted screw-ups while she pretended she was moderately interested. 
“Boys,” she said. “Playing games. How about this. I’ll help out however I can, provided you never ask me to call you Prime Minister and you never call me the Minister of Health?” 
“It’s a deal,” he said. 
Van refilled their glasses, upending the wine bottle to get the last few drops out. 
The raised their glasses. “To the world,” Felix said. “To humanity.” He thought hard. “To rebuilding.” 
“To anything,” Van said. 
“To anything,” Felix said. “To everything.” 
“To everything,” Rosa said. 
They drank. The next day, they started to rebuild. And months later, they started over again, when disagreements drove apart the fragile little group they’d pulled together. And a year after that, they started over again. And five years later, they started again. 
Felix dug ditches and salvaged cans and buried the dead. He planted and harvested. He fixed some cars and learned to make biodiesel. Finally he fetched up in a data-center for a little government—little governments came and went, but this one was smart enough to want to keep records and needed someone to keep everything running, and Van went with him. 
I sighed. “Besides, shouldn’t I be the one who gets to freak out here? All you’re doing is having a guilt complex meltdown. I think the impending death thing trumps that.” 
“How can you be—you’re cracking jokes?” He sounded broken. 
“What would you like me to do?” I asked. “Panic?” 
To be honest, I wasn’t sure why I wasn’t panicking. If Dawna had gotten to Rio, well, then he would kill me. But as soon as I had realized the implication of her words, it was as if she’d explained she wanted to set pi equal to three on pain of death and expected me to take it seriously. 
I trusted Rio. I trusted him completely. So Dawna telling me he would kill me was like insisting in perfect seriousness that black was white, or one equaled two, or the theorems in Euclidean geometry didn’t follow from the axioms. And given her skills, she could probably get me to believe any one of those before she would ever convince me Rio would kill me. The idea didn’t compute. And as if the very thought had caused an unending error message in my brain, I didn’t feel any reaction to it at all. 
“I’m not lying,” said Finch guilelessly. “I have no idea what you’re talking about.” 
“Miss Polk killed this woman’s husband,” Tresting said, tilting his head at Leena. “You got any information at all about her, this ain’t the time to withhold it.” 
“That’s true,” I said. “You don’t have to worry about me making holes in you; Dr. Kingsley’ll put your head through a wall.” 
“I, uh...” said Kingsley miserably, and trailed off. 
That pinged me as all wrong, considering the firebrand she had been that morning. Out of the corner of my eye, I could see Tresting staring at her in confusion. Oddly, so was Finch, with the first sign of apprehension he had shown the whole time. 
“Please finish, Dr. Kingsley,” said the would-be FBI agent, his nasally voice suddenly sounding strained. 
Her face tensed as if she didn’t like being in the spotlight. “I was going to call you,” she said to Tresting. 
He reached out and touched her elbow, steadying her. “About what?” 
She started twisting her wedding ring back and forth on her finger. “I...I want to call off the investigation.” 
"Not then," Grampa said, loudly. "Not during visitations." 
"I've got the logfiles, Grampa," Sean said. 
"What the hell do a twelve-year-old and a grown man have to talk about? I kept him fed. I took him out to the carny and to kiddee movies. I drove him to hockey." 
"You switched off , Grampa," Sean said. "The you that counted wasn't there." 
"Sophistry," Grampa said. "Bullshit. I remember all of it. I was there. Not many other parents were, let me tell you. Usually, it was just me and a few others in the stands, or kids running around loose like animals at the carny. Your father has nothing to complain about." 
"Why, aren't you two looking excited?" Adele said, hobbling alongside of the table. She was leaning on Ethan, a vigorous old man with sinewy arms and dead eyes. His face was unlined, free from smile lines and frowning creases. 
"Hi, Adele," Sean said, trying to keep the exasperation out of his voice. 
"Ethan, this is Sean and his grandfather, Brice." 
Ethan extended his hand and Sean shook it. "Very nice to meet you," Ethan said. His hand was dry and papery, his eyes vacant. Sean shook it, and a frisson of shameful disgust sizzled up his abdomen. He had a sudden vision of Ethan's brain, desiccated in his skull, the gleaming edges of the chip poking free. He surreptitiously wiped his hand on his pants as Ethan turned to Grampa and shook his hand. "Very nice to meet you." 
Finally, she cried. She hadn’t cried since she found out that Reeta had died—she hadn’t even liked Reeta, but to have someone die that soon after your seeing them was scary like you had almost died, almost. 
The wizard came on her there, weeping. He appeared out of the mist carrying a little light the size of a pea that he cupped in his hand to muffle most of the light. He was about her father’s age, but with her mother’s look of having survived something terrible without having survived altogether. He dressed like it was the old days, in fancy, bright-colored clothes, and he was well-fed in a way that no one else in the city was. 
“Hello there,” he said. He got down on his hunkers so he could look her in the eye. “Why are you crying?” 
Valentine hated grownups who patronized her and the wizard sounded like he believed that no little girl could possibly have anything real to cry about. 
“My dad died in the war today,” she said. “In a trench.” 
“Oh, the American trench-busters,” he said, knowingly. “Lots of children lost their daddies today, I bet.” 
Once she stopped at the appointed place, I moved quickly to catch up to her. She blinked owlishly at me from behind her glasses. 
"Marcus," she breathed, and tears swam in her eyes. I found that I was crying too. I'd make a really rotten fugitive. Too sentimental. 
She hugged me so hard I couldn't breathe. I hugged her back even harder. 
Then she kissed me. 
Not on the cheek, not like a sister. Full on the lips, a hot, wet, steamy kiss that seemed to go on forever. 
No, that's bull. I knew exactly what I was doing. I kissed her back. 
Then I stopped and pulled away, nearly shoved her away. "Van," I gasped. 
"Oops," she said. 
"Van," I said again. 
"Sorry," she said. "I --" 
Something occurred to me just then, something I guess I should have seen a long, long time before. 
"You like me, don't you?" 
She nodded miserably. "For years," she said. 
Oh, God. Darryl, all these years, so in love with her, and the whole time she was looking at me, secretly wanting me. And then I ended up with Ange. Ange said that she'd always fought with Van. And I was running around, getting into so much trouble. 
"Oh! we've only just started on it," Mr. Cobb responded genially; "it's more 'n two hours." 
"Only two hours," she sighed "That will be half past one; mother will be at cousin Ann's, the children at home will have had their dinner, and Hannah cleared all away. I have some lunch, because mother said it would be a bad beginning to get to the brick house hungry and have aunt Mirandy have to get me something to eat the first thing.—It's a good growing day, isn't it?" 
"It is, certain; too hot, most. Why don't you put up your parasol?" 
She extended her dress still farther over the article in question as she said, "Oh dear no! I never put it up when the sun shines; pink fades awfully, you know, and I only carry it to meetin' cloudy Sundays; sometimes the sun comes out all of a sudden, and I have a dreadful time covering it up; it's the dearest thing in life to me, but it's an awful care." 
At this moment the thought gradually permeated Mr. Jeremiah Cobb's slow-moving mind that the bird perched by his side was a bird of very different feather from those to which he was accustomed in his daily drives. He put the whip back in its socket, took his foot from the dashboard, pushed his hat back, blew his quid of tobacco into the road, and having thus cleared his mental decks for action, he took his first good look at the passenger, a look which she met with a grave, childlike stare of friendly curiosity. 
"What happened then was beyond my control." He mo­tioned me to join him as he settled onto the first step of the pyramid sadness in his eyes. We were alone in the square now, and I felt like I'd become his personal prisoner, trapped. "Sarah was . . . is very dear to me. I care for her deeply." 
"You cared so much for her she ended up in a coma, over on the Mexican border." I didn't sit. Instead I just bored in, hoping to stare him down, but his eyes had grown distant, that little trick he had of alternating between intimacy and remoteness. Again it reminded me of that first morning we'd met, looking out over the bluffs of the Hudson. 
"If you'll let me, I'd like to try and tell you something of the circumstances surrounding that tragedy." He was gazing off in the direction the women had gone. "You see, when Sarah first appeared at Quetzal Manor in New York, she was a very troubled young woman. She declared she was a person of pure spirit and she wanted to have a baby without so much as touching a man, some procedure that would produce a divine child created of cosmic energy." 
When I glanced around the office, I noticed a ring of keys on the desk. Could he have forgotten them? 
More important, would I blow everything if he caught me snooping? In spite of his attempt at a cool veneer, he might go ballistic. 
I made a snap decision. Take the chance and give them a try. 
My hands were so moist I had trouble holding the slippery keys, but finally I managed to shove in the first one. It went in, but nothing would turn. 
Come on. I managed to wiggle the next one in, my hand trembling now, but again the knob wouldn't budge. Footsteps outside marched up to the door and I stopped breathing, but then they moved on. 
Hurry. I was rapidly losing hope when the fifth one slipped in and the knob turned. Yes! 
Taking a deep breath and working on a story in case Alex Goddard walked in, I clicked the lock and eased the door inward just enough to look inside. 
Hello, what's this? The space was a fully equipped medical research lab. The lights were off, but like the office, it was illuminated by the glow of several CRT screens stationed above a long lab bench. There also was a large machine, probably a gas chromatograph, with its own screen, flanked by rows of test tubes. Finally, there was a large electronic microscope complete with video screen. 
"I hadn't missed a question this whole day, nor whispered either," quavered the culprit; "and I don't think I ought to be shamed just for drinking." 
"You started all the others, or it seemed as if you did. Whatever you do they all do, whether you laugh, or miss, or write notes, or ask to leave the room, or drink; and it must be stopped." 
"Sam Simpson is a copycoat!" stormed Rebecca "I wouldn't have minded standing in the corner alone—that is, not so very much; but I couldn't bear standing with him." 
"I saw that you couldn't, and that's the reason I told you to take your seat, and left him in the corner. Remember that you are a stranger in the place, and they take more notice of what you do, so you must be careful. Now let's have our conjugations. Give me the verb 'to be,' potential mood, past perfect tense." 
"I might have been   "We might have been   Thou mightst have been   You might have been   He might have been   They might have been." 
"Give me an example, please." 
"'He' or 'she' might have been glad because they are masculine and feminine, but could 'it' have been glad?" asked Miss Dearborn, who was very fond of splitting hairs. 
The afternoon and evening was a blur of fear and excitement and bureaucracy and sitting on hard chairs, waiting for decisions to be made. We’d done it. We’d exposed how these stings worked. 
After being publicly humiliated they’d have to let my brother go. I felt like a balloon filling up with righteousness and excitement, as if my skin was actually stretching to contain it all. But instead of lifting me up so I could float away, it popped. 
I was free to go, they told me sometime after midnight. My par- ents were waiting to take me home. 
It felt weird, walking into the ginormous suburban house that I had hated so much, seeing the kitchen that always looked as if it had been recently sterilized. The big, soft couches in the living room, the enormous entertainment system. A wall full of family pictures, including one of me and Wilson. He had his arms draped over my shoulder. I was five years old and scowling for the camera. 
“We got new window treatments,” my adoptive mother said with desperate cheerfulness. “What do you think?” 
“Hence the needing backup.” 
“Okay. When and where?” 
There was a short beat of silence, as if Checker had expected a different response, but he recovered quickly. “I’m texting you the details now, including the location and the tracker frequency. Satellite imagery was no help, unfortunately; it only shows some buildings in the middle of the desert. As for when...he’s going in tonight.” 
I looked up at the stars. “Uh, it’s night already.” 
“Yeah.” 
“So, I’m in kind of a hurry here, huh.” 
“He left a few hours ago,” said Checker. “I tried to stop him.” 
His words had become heavy with worry. It made me feel strangely isolated—no one gave a damn if I decided to make a suicide run. I wouldn’t even be missed; I’d disappear into the fabric of the Los Angeles underground as if I’d never existed. 
“I’d better get going, then,” I said, starting to walk faster. “Anything else I should know? Is anyone else with him?” 
“I swear, I tried to get him to call in help. He got all idiotic nobility complex on me about not wanting to involve anyone else.” 
“Never,” he replied agreeably. “It can never be anything but a guess, as I said, based upon probabilities. Human senses, human judgment, human reason, are all pitifully liable to error.” 
Lexy was silent for a time, thinking over this. 
“Maybe you’re right,” she said slowly, “about the senses, and judgment, and reason. Perhaps their evidence isn’t always to be trusted; but there’s something else.” 
“Something else?” he repeated. “Something else? And what may that be?” 
Lexy looked up at him. There was a smile on his heavy, pallid face, aloof and contemptuous; but she was chiefly concerned just then in trying to put into words her own firm conviction, more for her own benefit than for his. It was not reason that had brought her here to look for Caroline, it was not reason that sustained her. 
“There’s something else,” she said again, with a frown. “There’s a way of knowing things without reason. It’s—I don’t know just how to put it, but it’s a thing beyond reason.” 
He laughed, and she thought she had never heard a more unpleasant laugh. 
"She's the best company I ever see in all my life," said Mrs. Cobb to her husband that evening. "We ain't had a dull minute this day. She's well-mannered, too; she didn't ask for anything, and was thankful for whatever she got. Did you watch her face when we went into that tent where they was actin' out Uncle Tom's Cabin? And did you take notice of the way she told us about the book when we sat down to have our ice cream? I tell you Harriet Beecher Stowe herself couldn't 'a' done it better justice." 
"I took it all in," responded Mr. Cobb, who was pleased that "mother" agreed with him about Rebecca. "I ain't sure but she's goin' to turn out somethin' remarkable,—a singer, or a writer, or a lady doctor like that Miss Parks up to Cornish." 
"Lady doctors are always home'paths, ain't they?" asked Mrs. Cobb, who, it is needless to say, was distinctly of the old school in medicine. 
"Land, no, mother; there ain't no home'path 'bout Miss Parks—she drives all over the country." 
"I can't see Rebecca as a lady doctor, somehow," mused Mrs. Cobb. "Her gift o' gab is what's goin' to be the makin' of her; mebbe she'll lecture, or recite pieces, like that Portland elocutionist that come out here to the harvest supper." 
The raised their glasses. “To the world,” Felix said. “To humanity.” He thought hard. “To rebuilding.” 
“To anything,” Van said. 
“To anything,” Felix said. “To everything.” 
“To everything,” Rosa said. 
They drank. The next day, they started to rebuild. And months later, they started over again, when disagreements drove apart the fragile little group they’d pulled together. And a year after that, they started over again. And five years later, they started again. 
Felix dug ditches and salvaged cans and buried the dead. He planted and harvested. He fixed some cars and learned to make biodiesel. Finally he fetched up in a data-center for a little government—little governments came and went, but this one was smart enough to want to keep records and needed someone to keep everything running, and Van went with him. 
They spent a lot of time in chat rooms and sometimes they happened upon old friends from the strange time they’d spent running the Distributed Republic of Cyberspace, geeks who insisted on calling him PM, though no one in the real world ever called him that anymore. 
“Did our friend Miss Polk discuss anything else with you?” Rio asked. 
“Not really. Mostly she just offered to answer my questions.” 
Rio looked far more serious about that than I would have expected. “I see,” he said again. 
And the realization blazed through me, viscerally painful, my recovering wound hot with agony and every nerve ending on fire. By asking her questions...by asking her questions, I had been willingly telling Dawna everything she wanted to know. I had asked about what I had thought was important, and in asking about it, I had thought about it, and in thinking about it...Jesus Christ, if she had let me keep going, I would have asked her about everything, given away the smallest detail of everything I knew, as far back as I could remember. 
But she hadn’t been interested in any of that. She had stopped our session even though I was still ready to spill a lot more than I already had. Thinking back, I realized with horror that she had only taken the time to converse with me on one topic: Rio. She had turned the conversation toward him at the very beginning, and then taken all the information I had. 
“This will be fun,” Anda said. “Let’s go.” 
“Where?” Lucy said. 
“To an in-game factory. We’re your new bodyguards.” The bosses hired some pretty mean mercs, Anda knew. She’d been one. They’d be fun to wipe out. 
Raymond’s character spun around on the screen, then planted a kiss on Anda’s cheek. Anda made her character give him a playful shove that sent him sprawling. 
“Hey, Lucy, go get us a couple BFGs, OK?” 
I was suckled on the Asimov Robots books, taken down off my father’s bookshelf and enjoyed again and again. I read dozens of Asimov novels, and my writing career began in earnest when I started to sell stories to Asimov’s Science Fiction Magazine, which I had read for so long as I’d had the pocket money to buy it on the stands. 
When Wired Magazine asked me to interview the director of the film I, Robot, I went back and re-read that old canon. I was struck immediately by one of the thin places in Asimov’s world-building: how could you have a society where only one company was allowed to make only one kind of robot? 
"If you think you could move up some stones and just take off the top rows, I could step out over," suggested Charlotte Corday. "Then leave the stones, and you two can step down into the prison to-morrow and be the two little princes in the Tower, and I can murder you." 
"What princes? What tower?" asked Alice and Emma Jane in one breath. "Tell us about them." 
"Not now, it's my supper time." (Rebecca was a somewhat firm disciplinarian.) 
"It would be elergant being murdered by you," said Emma Jane loyally, "though you are awful real when you murder; or we could have Elijah and Elisha for the princes." 
"They'd yell when they was murdered," objected Alice; "you know how silly they are at plays, all except Clara Belle. Besides if we once show them this secret place, they'll play in it all the time, and perhaps they'd steal things, like their father." 
"They needn't steal just because their father does," argued Rebecca; "and don't you ever talk about it before them if you want to be my secret, partic'lar friends. My mother tells me never to say hard things about people's own folks to their face. She says nobody can bear it, and it's wicked to shame them for what isn't their fault. Remember Minnie Smellie!" 
“We’ve written to each other, on and off. I’m not much good at that sort of thing, but I thought her letters were—well, rather remarkable, you know; but I dare say I’m prejudiced. She’s the only one of my own people left.” 
“You poor, dear thing!” thought Lexy, with ready sympathy, but she did not say anything. 
“Anyhow,” he presently continued, “I got an impression from her letters that she was rather an extraordinary girl. She was studying music—said she was going on the concert stage—awfully enthusiastic about it; and then she married this doctor chap. She never said much about him, only that she was very happy; but—well, I don’t believe that.” 
“Why?” 
“I don’t know. Anyhow, she was married about two years ago, and a few months after her marriage she began writing oftener—almost every mail. She was always wanting me to come over here and see her; and lately, in her last letters, I—somehow I fancied she wanted me rather badly. It—it worried me, so I arranged for leave. On the very day when I wrote that I would be coming over this month, I had a letter from her, asking me not to make any plans for coming this year. She said she’d taken up her concert work again, and would be too busy to enjoy the visit, and so on. I’d already made my plans, you see, so I went ahead. Then, about a fortnight later, after she’d got my letter, I suppose, I had a cable. ‘Don’t come,’ it said. I cabled back, but she didn’t answer.” 
“Thanks for taking care of Wheeze,” I said. “I don’t know how to repay you.” 
“You already did. Got my computer working.” 
“I can do something useful while I’m here,” Wheeze said. Jane studied him. His breath rattled in his chest, but he sat up a little straighter and tried to look competent. 
“He’s good at fixing things,” I said. 
“I have an old pedal sewing machine that isn’t working right. 
Can you repair it?” He nodded. “What else are you good at?” 
“Screen printing. Making soup.” 
“Reading incredibly long books about the history of debt,” I added. 
“Debt?” 
“It’s more interesting than it sounds,” Wheeze said. 
“Well, I got a lot of old books and no time to read them. If you record them for me, I can listen while I do the chores.” 
“Deal.” He held out a hand and she slapped her palm into it, 
sealing the arrangement with a shake that made him wince. “You guys? Thanks,” he added, looking at Nikko and Bree, then at me. 
We looked at each other for a minute. 
“Stay safe,” I said, feeling a falling sensation inside, as sudden and shocking as plunging deep into a cold pool. I suddenly real- ized how much I would miss messing around with Wheeze. Given that he was wanted by the FBI, just like my brother, and probably faced years and years of prison if they caught him, I wasn’t sure if we’d ever hang out together again. It had been such a relief to find him that I‘d forgotten how much trouble he still faced. 
"All those trappings just now, the fake green mask." I decided to challenge him head-on. Start forcing him to show his hand. "What's—?" 
"Merely a little harmless theater." He looked back. "The forest Maya like to think they're being ministered to by a shaman." Then he indicated I should follow him. "By the way, in case you do get hungry, I brought you something you can have in your room if you like. Then you can make yourself at home and rest a bit." 
Hold on. I was being given the illusion of freedom, but in reality I was nothing more than his prisoner. 
"That room next to your office. The steel door. What's in—?" 
"That's the heart of Baalum ." Pride in his voice. "The real reason I'm here." 
"You mean drug research?" 
#######He nodded. "Did you know the Central American rain forest easily contains a hundred thousand plant species? Over half of all pharmaceutical drugs are derived from plants, yet less than one percent of those here have been tested for phar­macological potential. Still, the old shamans and midwives all know of herbs they claim can cure everything from men­strual cramps to cancer." He smiled. "They also know which ones have powerful contraceptive properties, which is par­ticularly helpful in my primary study, fertility and fetal vi­ability. I take the specimens they bring and perform a rough screening in the lab to determine if they're actually pharma­cologically active. If they do test positive, I then examine their effect on the blastocyst, the early form of embryonic cell formed just after fertilization, to see whether they affect cell division and viability and . . . the miscarriage rate here is very low, so some of these plants . . ." His voice trailed off as he pushed open the door of a suite at the end of the hall. It had a stone floor, a simple bed, and through the slatted windows the light of midday filtered through, along with the birdcalls of the rain forest. Any other time and place, I'd have felt like I was staying at a rustic nature retreat. 
From a ways away, and goddamned hard to hear. I turned the volume on the phone all the way up, but the ringing in my ears was still too bad for me to focus past it. 
I needed an amplifier....  on the floor of the passenger side of my new ride and picked it up. A few rips and a twist and I had something that would bounce my sound waves into constructive interference. I tore a slot in the base and slid it over the phone’s speaker, then held the mouth of my makeshift amplifier up to my ear. 
“...ain’t gonna let you go,” came Arthur’s voice, quiet and inexorable. 
“You’re fucked up, man. You’re fucked in the head. You really wanna die for this?” 
“I ain’t walking away.” 
Checker was prone to asking far too many questions, but he knew an emergency when he saw one. Thirteen seconds later I had the freeway exit for a nearby hospital. 
Hospital security is effectively nonexistent. At least when it comes to someone like me. I was lifting away from the roof helipad into a darkening sky before anyone registered I was stealing from them. 
“Wednesday I came home and—there was no sign someone had broken in, nothing,” Halliday answered. “But all of my notebooks were gone. Just gone.” 
“What about your computer?” I asked. 
She shook her head. “I work in longhand. I was only just now going back through the proof to rewrite it for publication—so many years, so many dead ends and notes, and...they took it all. I went back to my office immediately and found my work here cleaned out, too. Even though none of it was relevant to the factorization problem, they still took everything. And the next morning I found the note.” 
“I’ll go by your house in a few hours with some equipment,” said Arthur. “And then we’ll come back and look at your office again. Don’t handle nothing you ain’t touched already.” 
Halliday made an abortive gesture at the books and papers surrounding her. “I have to...my work—” 
“Can wait,” Arthur said. 
“He’s right,” I put in. “Take the day off, go have a stiff drink or three. We’ll call you.” 
He gave me a funny look, but addressed Professor Halliday instead. “Sonya, she’s right....  calm. We’ll figure this out.” 
“I did some digging after you mentioned it while pointing a gun barrel at my face,” I explained impatiently. “What else?” 
“It’s buried deep. I got a tech guy. He can only find bits and pieces. But it’s far-reaching. My client’s husband, he was a journalist. Started digging into some things. Political decisions, that sort of stuff, ones that didn’t make sense. Nutso crime spikes. Chances are they could’ve left him alive; I don’t think he ever saw the connection.” 
“What connection?” 
“Pithica. Just the word. Buried deep. Didn’t find it linked up to all the things he been looking at, but it was enough to be, uh, a ‘statistically significant correlation.’ Or so say my tech guy.” 
His tech guy must be good. Anton had been able to find almost nothing. “And you think Pithica killed him. The journalist.” 
“Sounds crazy, but yeah. Some of what we found, it was a pattern—it’s too similar, the MO of his murder. Can’t prove it, not yet, but his death’s got Pithica all over it.” 
“So Courtney Polk is, what, some sort of secret government agent?” 
From what seems to be kilometers away, there is screaming. High pitched, ringing with terror, choking to silence. 
"Where is it coming from?" Kilgore growls. 
Ray strains to listen, but there are bulkheads and strange echoes, any number of distorting baffles between them. He steps out into the corridor, where there are bodies. Some are puddles of flesh, things he's seen before. Others are shattered wrecks, as though they've been smashed by hammers the size of tree trunks. The flesh is mangled, battered, stretched by bones which have poked through the skin. The walls are streaked with blood, angry red flowers from impact points where corpses flopped like tossed dolls and languid, wavy arcs from crewmen who slid lazily from wall to deck. Ray counts a dozen before he stops. 
He keeps himself from panic, from sounding panicked. "Becker, I need orientation on this deck." 
"What do you see?" 
A bunch of dead guys. 
"I just climbed off the ladder. It seems to be cognate to the ladder position on Omicron." First things first, he thinks. "You'd better direct me to the reactor control room to start. We'll want to confirm that they're still operating and warn them about trouble. How close are your guys?" 
The realtor gave a small nod. "Tough times ahead. Winds are about to shift again. You need to adjust your expectations, Leon. The best you can hope for right now is to get out of that place before you have to make another mortgage payment." 
His pulse throbbed in his jaw and his thigh in counterpoint. "But I need money to --" 
"Leon," she said, with some steel in her voice. "You're bargaining . As in denial, anger, bargaining, depression and acceptance. That's healthy and all, but it's not going to get your place sold. Here's two options: one, you can go find another realtor, maybe one who'll sugar coat things or string you along to price up something else he's trying to sell. Two, you can let me get on with making some phone calls and I'll see who I can bring in. I keep a list of people I'd like to see in this 'hood, people who've asked me to look out for the right kind of place. That place you're in is one of a kind. I might be able to take it off your hands in very quick time, if you let me do my thing." She shuffled some papers. "Oh, there's a third, which is that you could go back to your apartment and pretend that nothing is wrong until that next mortgage payment comes out of your bank-account. That would be denial and if you're bargaining, you should be two steps past that. 
tapped a button and read it out without rolling her eyes or any- thing, which made me like her. 
“That’s only for emergencies. Let’s hope you don’t need to use it.” The old lawyer pushed herself up from the chair, hooked the purse on her arm, and tottered over to Team Legal. 
I stowed my phone and went outside, thinking about what she’d said. Sure, I was taking a risk. She didn’t say it would make things worse for Wilson. All she said was it could go wrong, 
which I already knew. I got on my bike and headed out for the fed- eral courthouse, where there would be a measly group of people with homemade signs embarrassing the few people who happened to notice them. 
It was a bigger crowd than I expected. There were the usual activist types, including a bossy guy with a loud speaker shouting out things that nobody could hear clearly. Big steroidal men wear- ing coats that said POLICE or FEDERAL MARSHAL on the back in case we didn’t know who they were stood around, feet spread, eyes hidden behind dark glasses. I didn’t see anyone with FBI on their jackets, but they were mingling with the crowd in plain clothes, trying to blend in while also looking so clean-cut and wholesome they didn’t. 
"I'm sorry, lovey, but we've got bad news for you." 
"Is aunt Miranda worse? She is; I can see it by your looks;" and Rebecca's color faded. 
"She had a second stroke yesterday morning jest when she was helpin' Jane lay out her things to come here to-day. Jane said you wan't to know anything about it till the exercises was all over, and we promised to keep it secret till then." 
"I will go right home with you, aunt Sarah. I must just run to tell Miss Maxwell, for after I had packed up to-morrow I was going to Brunswick with her. Poor aunt Miranda! And I have been so gay and happy all day, except that I was longing for mother and aunt Jane." 
"There ain't no harm in bein' gay, lovey; that's what Jane wanted you to be. And Miranda's got her speech back, for your aunt has just sent a letter sayin' she's better; and I'm goin' to set up to-night, so you can stay here and have a good sleep, and get your things together comfortably to-morrow." 
"I'll pack your trunk for you, Becky dear, and attend to all our room things," said Emma Jane, who had come towards the group and heard the sorrowful news from the brick house. 
The idea hit me fully formed—something that would show both Arthur and the NSA, would let me solve this whole catastrophe once and for all. “No,” I said. “We don’t lure him out. We lure him in.” 
“Huh? You mean you want to, to what—grab him and trade him?” 
“No. Even if we got our hands on him, they wouldn’t trade the professor for him. He’s expendable. They can find another computer guy.” 
“Hey!” 
“You know it’s true. Halliday is the one they really need. Unless he’s the one in charge, they’d never trade him for her.” 
Checker leaned back and crossed his arms. “All right, it seems like you’ve got an idea. Let’s hear it.” 
“We don’t make them give up Halliday. We make them take me.” 
“ What?” 
“We convince them somehow that she needs help. That I wrote part of the proof. Whatever. You drop whatever electronic hints will make them think that.” I ignored the edge of recklessness limning my brain. This plan was perfect. “It’ll work. I can pass muster.” 
“Of course you can; that’s not the point!” 
"Morgy, we'll get through this," he said, reaching over to stroke my hair. "If somebody brought her back down here, we'll find her. And I apologize for being such a shit on the phone, about the baby. I'd just had a local lab lose three rolls of high-speed Kodachrome and I was seriously frosted at the world. We can keep trying if you want to." 
"Just hold me." I put down my glass and I reached around and ran my finger across his chest. It was so lovely to be this close to somebody you wanted so much. I loved his earnest brown eyes and his soft skin. I loved him. Just having him with me made such a difference. 
The unexpected part was, I'd asked him to come and help me, but now that he was here, I was starting to feel uneasy about luring him into my personal nightmare. Was that really fair? 
Also, I was getting hints he had problems of his own. The photo book, I gathered, was not coming together the way he'd hoped. He'd mumbled something about finding himself torn between a heartstrings essay about the children (his spe­cialty; you've probably seen his work, whether you know it or not), a devastating portrayal of the latest crop of sleazy politicos, or a nature valentine to the vanishing rain forest. But whenever he agonized about his work, I knew enough to keep my mouth shut and just listen. He didn't want bright ideas; he just wanted me to clam up and be there for him. 
Another milestone was the departure of the Simpsons from Riverboro, bag and baggage, the banquet lamp being their most conspicuous possession. It was delightful to be rid of Seesaw's hateful presence; but otherwise the loss of several playmates at one fell swoop made rather a gap in Riverboro's "younger set," and Rebecca was obliged to make friends with the Robinson baby, he being the only long-clothes child in the village that winter. 
The faithful Seesaw had called at the side door of the brick house on the evening before his departure, and when Rebecca answered his knock, stammered solemnly, "Can I k-keep comp'ny with you when you g-g-row up?" "Certainly NOT," replied Rebecca, closing the door somewhat too speedily upon her precocious swain. Mr. Simpson had come home in time to move his wife and children back to the town that had given them birth, a town by no means waiting with open arms to receive them. The Simpsons' moving was presided over by the village authorities and somewhat anxiously watched by the entire neighborhood, but in spite of all precautions a pulpit chair, several kerosene lamps, and a small stove disappeared from the church and were successfully swapped in the course of Mr. Simpson's driving tour from the old home to the new. It gave Rebecca and Emma Jane some hours of sorrow to learn that a certain village in the wake of Abner Simpson's line of progress had acquired, through the medium of an ambitious young minister, a magnificent lamp for its new church parlors. No money changed hands in the operation; for the minister succeeded in getting the lamp in return for an old bicycle. The only pleasant feature of the whole affair was that Mr. Simpson, wholly unable to console his offspring for the loss of the beloved object, mounted the bicycle and rode away on it, not to be seen or heard of again for many a long day. 
"For what it's worth. Which, for the record, isn't much at this point in time. Just enough to meet our quotas and hold onto our charter. We're still decades away from really profitable resource mining unless we can get more and highly skilled people to immigrate. Labor is the most important raw material on any new colony, 
especially skilled labor. That's a much less cynical way of looking at the work we do with the Trust. We take children who would otherwise be hopeless and give them a place and the necessary knowledge to flourish. " 
She pauses briefly, develops a look of consternation. "Oh, but Ray, you understand that's just the business side of things, all this talk about ownership. New Holyoke is a legitimate colony with its own governing structure independent of the Whiston corporate aims. We are not petty tyrants ruling by executive fiat. The colony has its own local Congressional Forum that sets domestic policy, its own independent security forces, elects its own delegates to the Terran forum. The family stays completely away from the political side of it. " 
“Instead of just having extremely well-armed bikers kill me off afterwards?” I asked pleasantly. 
Her color heightened a touch. “I must apologize for that. We mistimed that attack. It was meant to be another gauge of Mr. Sonrio’s response to imperiling you.” 
Right. Though presumably they hadn’t much cared if I bit it, either—especially not after I had name-dropped Pithica to...  of this. Calling me in the first place. You were—what, studying Rio?” 
“Yes.” 
“And what did you learn?” I asked. 
“He surprised us. He let you go.” 
I raised my eyebrows. “I had to knock him out with a chair.” We looked at each other for a second. Dammit. “Fine. If Rio hadn’t wanted me to escape, I probably wouldn’t have. Okay, then why Rio? Why are you so interested in him?” 
She scrutinized me for a hairsbreadth before answering. “We need someone like him.” 
“Seems like you’ve got your own private army already,” I observed. 
“Ms. Russell,” said Dawna delicately, “I am not sure you are fully aware of Mr. Sonrio’s skills. His ability to be effective—it borders on the unrealistic. He has destroyed entire governments. Leveled armies. Found and obliterated terrorist cells the intelligence agencies of several continents were chasing their tails trying to pursue. He has altered the course of nations. A lone man.” Her voice was calm, factual, and very serious. 
The effect of this piece of doggerel was entirely convincing, and for days afterwards whenever Minnie met the Simpsons even a mile from the brick house she shuddered and held her peace. 
On the very next Friday after this "dreadfullest fight that ever was seen," as Bunyan says in Pilgrim's Progress, there were great doings in the little schoolhouse on the hill. 
Friday afternoon was always the time chosen for dialogues, songs, and recitations, but it cannot be stated that it was a gala day in any true sense of the word. Most of the children hated "speaking pieces;" hated the burden of learning them, dreaded the danger of breaking down in them. Miss Dearborn commonly went home with a headache, and never left her bed during the rest of the afternoon or evening; and the casual female parent who attended the exercises sat on a front bench with beads of cold sweat on her forehead, listening to the all-too-familiar halts and stammers. Sometimes a bellowing infant who had clean forgotten his verse would cast himself bodily on the maternal bosom and be borne out into the open air, where he was sometimes kissed and occasionally spanked; but in any case the failure added an extra dash of gloom and dread to the occasion. 
“I feel appreciated,” grumped Checker. 
“Thank you,” I said to him with sweet sarcasm, and turned back to Tresting. “Now let’s go.” 
Checker gave us a hearty middle finger and cut the connection. 
“He’ll be standing by for when we get in,” Tresting assured me. “In case we can get him remote access. Shall we?” 
“Can you get him to cut the security cameras for us first?” I wasn’t likely to forget how easily Checker had been able to find Dawna and me on the Santa Monica footage. 
“Asked already. For some reason the building security system is down today. Been down for the last few hours.” 
I studied his grim face. “You think they have something going down?” 
“Only one way to find out. Mind giving me my gun back?” 
Tresting drove; I sat in the passenger seat and tried to keep from fidgeting. I’d never gone into a place with someone else. It felt odd, itchy, like a variable I had no control over. I tamped down both that and my headache, which had reappeared with a dull throb as we drove—this wasn’t the time to be distracted. Fortunately, I’d had enough practice with hangovers to ignore headaches pretty easily. 
“Laugh it off,” said Lexy. 
The idea of Captain Grey trying to laugh off anything made her grin from ear to ear. 
“Not much of a joke, though, is it?” he said rather stiffly. “Suppose he hoofs us out of the house?” 
“Oh, dear!” cried Lexy. “You’re not a bit resourceful! Let’s try it, anyhow. It’s horrible to think of her shut up like that. Perhaps she’s longing to see you.” 
He rose. 
“Right-o!” he said. “Let’s try it!” 
Together they went up the stairs and down the hall of the other wing, opposite that in which Lexy’s room was. Captain Grey knocked on a door, and a quiet, middle-aged little nurse came out. 
“I’ll just pop in to see how my sister’s getting on,” said the young man, and Lexy silently applauded his toploftical manner. 
“I’m sorry,” said the little nurse, “but Dr. Quelton has given strict orders—” 
“Er—yes, quite so!” he interrupted suavely. “I shan’t stop a minute.” 
He came nearer, but the nurse drew back and stood with her back against the door. 
“Dr. Quelton has given strict orders—” she repeated. 
U NEED HELP? 
I stared at the words. It felt like the setup to a really bad joke, one in which the next text would read, “ha ha, just kidding, you’re so stupid.” The little computerized letters burned into my eyes. 
Cas! Stop it! No time! I chided myself. 
But was he serious? Why would a guy I’d had barely any interaction with want to help me? 
Maybe it wasn’t so unrealistic. After all, he seemed to need me for something. He could be trying to offer a quid pro quo, an “I’ll help you, and then you’re going to be obligated to help me.” Or he might assume he was charging me for it and that we would settle up after. Either of those explanations aligned much more reasonably with my expectations of human nature...but in a way it didn’t matter, because what could he possibly do to help me? 
Unless... 
Maybe he could forge something—some order, some directive, that would clear the police out of the area without anyone getting hurt. It was worth a try. I stabbed my phone with my thumb to dial. 
I had my laptop open and earbuds on. I wasn’t feeling ready to talk to him, but he was a friendly guy, and after the girl detached herself and drifted out the door he worked his way around the room, chatting, hugging, being disgustingly charming until he got to me. I pretended that I couldn’t hear him, but he put his hand on my shoulder and leaned close so I couldn’t ignore him anymore. 
“You’re Zen, right?” he said when I pulled an earbud out of my ear. 
“Man, I’m sorry about what happened to your brother. That’s so totally wrong, you know?” 
“Yeah, it sucks.” 
“I don’t believe anything the media says. It’s all bullshit propa- ganda.” 
“Totally,” I said, trying to signal that I was busy and the home- work on my computer screen was way more interesting than he was. 
“The system is so screwed up. The banksters got their bonuses. What did we get?” 
“Student debt,” someone at the next table said. 
He took a chair from my table so that he could sit with them. I stared at my computer, thinking about the girl who had asked me for help. It beat worrying about Wilson, at least for a little while. 
A set of softer hands pried me gently out of his arms. Mom. She held me at arm's length for a moment, searching my face for something, not saying anything, tears streaming down her face. She smiled and it turned into a sob and then she was holding me too, and Dad's arm encircled us both. 
When they let go, I managed to finally say something. "Darryl?" 
"His father met me somewhere else. He's in the hospital." 
"When can I see him?" 
"It's our next stop," Dad said. He was grim. "He doesn't --" He stopped. "They say he'll be OK," he said. His voice was choked. 
"How about Ange?" 
"Her mother took her home. She wanted to wait here for you, but..." 
I understood. I felt full of understanding now, for how all the families of all the people who'd been locked away must feel. The courtroom was full of tears and hugs, and even the bailiffs couldn't stop it. 
"Let's go see Darryl," I said. "And let me borrow your phone?" 
I called Ange on the way to the hospital where they were keeping Darryl -- San Francisco General, just down the street from us -- and arranged to see her after dinner. She talked in a hurried whisper. Her mom wasn't sure whether to punish her or not, but Ange didn't want to tempt fate. 
"I've got the right to my privacy," I said. "And I want to speak to an attorney." 
"This is your last chance, kid. Honest people don't have anything to hide." 
"I want to speak to an attorney." My parents would pay for it. All the FAQs on getting arrested were clear on this point. Just keep asking to see an attorney, no matter what they say or do. There's no good that comes of talking to the cops without your lawyer present. These two said they weren't cops, but if this wasn't an arrest, what was it? 
In hindsight, maybe I should have unlocked my phone for them. 
They re-shackled and re-hooded me and left me there. A long time later, the truck started to move, rolling downhill, and then I was hauled back to my feet. I immediately fell over. My legs were so asleep they felt like blocks of ice, all except my knees, which were swollen and tender from all the hours of kneeling. 
Hands grabbed my shoulders and feet and I was picked up like a sack of potatoes. There were indistinct voices around me. Someone crying. Someone cursing. 
Dave arrived finally, giving some long explanation about car problems and traffic until Marcella cut him off. 
“You’re late,” she said and handed him a flowchart. 
He gave her a winning smile. It didn’t work. Marcella doesn’t get smiles. She was about to launch into her explanation for the third time when I broke in. “I vote for the second option. The one in green.” 
“Me too,” Nikko...  art,” I said. “You guys can do European and contemporary.” 
“Which theme, though?” Marcella asked. “We have to choose a theme. I put the choices on the back.” 
“Communities” I said, just as Nikko said “animals.” 
In the next second I said “animals” and Nikko said “communi- ties” and then pretended to stifle a sneeze to hold his laughter in. 
I didn’t hide it; I just laughed. Marcella glared. 
“I’ll go for what everybody else wants,” Dave said. He was like that: easygoing, agreeable - so long as everyone else did all the work. 
Marcella ordered us to assemble in the main lobby in exactly one hour to report. She beckoned Dave to follow her to the medieval art section. We could hear her mechanical voice droning away as they disappeared into the distance. ...  
Feeling like I was deep in a medical fourth dimension, I took out one of the freezing tubes. It was notched and marked with a code labeled along the side: "BL -1 la," "BL -1 lb," "BL-1 lc," and so it went, all the way to "g." But noth­ing was there. 
I began checking the other tubes. They all were empty too. So why was he freezing empty containers? 
Go with the simple answer. He's getting them ready for new embryos. 
I slid the rod back into the cryo-tank, then walked over and hoisted myself onto the lab bench next to the Dancing Shiva, creator and destroyer. And when I did, I again felt a stab of pain in my groin. The bastard. I was shaking, in the early stages of shock. More than anything, I just wanted to find him and kill him. . . . 
I thought I heard a scraping noise somewhere outside, in the hall, and I froze. Was he about to come in and check on his "experiments"? Then I realized it was just the building, his house of horrors, creaking from the wind. 
I took one final look at the incubators, and all the pain came back. The whole thing was too much for my body to take in. I sat there trying to muster my strength. 
In the autumn Rebecca was often the old man's companion while he was digging potatoes or shelling beans, and now in the winter, when a younger man was driving the stage, she sometimes stayed with him while he did...  to say that he was the only creature in Riverboro who possessed Rebecca's entire confidence; the only being to whom she poured out her whole heart, with its wealth of hopes, and dreams, and vague ambitions. At the brick house she practiced scales and exercises, but at the Cobbs' cabinet organ she sang like a bird, improvising simple accompaniments that seemed to her ignorant auditors nothing short of marvelous. Here she was happy, here she was loved, here she was drawn out of herself and admired and made much of. But, she thought, if there were somebody who not only loved but understood; who spoke her language, comprehended her desires, and responded to her mysterious longings! Perhaps in the big world of Wareham there would be people who thought and dreamed and wondered as she did. 
There was a long pause, during which Rebecca sat down by the bedside and timidly touched her aunt's hand, her heart swelling with tender pity at the gaunt face and closed eyes. 
"I was dreadful ashamed to have you graduate in cheesecloth, Rebecca, but I couldn't help it no-how. You'll hear the reason some time, and know I tried to make it up to ye. I'm afraid you was a laughin'-stock!" 
"No," Rebecca answered. "Ever so many people said our dresses were the very prettiest; they looked like soft lace. You're not to be anxious about anything. Here I am all grown up and graduated,—number three in a class of twenty-two, aunt Miranda,—and good positions offered me already. Look at me, big and strong and young, all ready to go into the world and show what you and aunt Jane have done for me. If you want me near, I'll take the Edgewood school, so that I can be here nights and Sundays to help; and if you get better, then I'll go to Augusta,—for that's a hundred dollars more, with music lessons and other things beside." 
“Exactly. He’s scared people won’t respect him. That scar on his hand? He told the truth about that. We met at a protest and things got crazy and this thing leaking smoke landed at my feet and I didn’t even know what it was. He pushed me back and grabbed that canister and threw it so hard. It went up and up and over the police lines. And everybody cheered and I hugged him and it wasn’t till later I found out how bad he was burned.” 
“That’s brave,” Sarah said, hunting through the cupboards. 
“Not brave. Dumb. He should have said something. If we got ice on it right away . . . you...  to rise, but Sarah waved her back into her seat. “ It’s in the fridge. 
“He says stupid things just to get respect. Then he gets all para- noid about getting caught and we have to find another place to live. I just want to settle down and get jobs. Get a place of our own. I’m so tired of this.” 
“Of course you are,” Sarah murmured, tickling the baby and making him chuckle and wave his legs. “It’s not easy to live this way when you have a child. But I’ll bet he’ll always remember that moment, grabbing that canister to get it away from you.” 
before they absolutely throw us out. I mean, I'd never be able to show my face here again, would I?" 
And so they walk out, arm in arm, and she chatters all the way around the concourse. Kilgore plots an escape that won't damage his cover, but keeps running headlong into the critical absence of chloroform in his arsenal to carry off anything convincing. 
They walk all the way to the opposite side of the ship, to the compartments wedged against the outer hull in a sleepy sort of cul-de-sac. She punches her security key into the door lock and drags him inside. 
Her room is a standard single, somewhere between modest and upscale, with a living area large enough for a couch, an end table and a vid screen; an abbreviated galley area like the one in Kilgore's room, though he assumes this one works as advertised. He makes sure she gets inside safely, goes so far as to peek into the public area to make sure they haven't accidentally smuggled in a murderer or rapist under cover of her verbal fusillade, then turns to go. Except the door has closed behind him and the kako-daimon responding to the motion sensor cue just gives him a sort of apologetic, doomed shake of the head. 
“It’s a dumb assignment. And I hate group projects.” 
“Everybody does. But it’s good for you to have a chance to interact with other people your age.” 
“I interact with them online all the time.” 
“It’s not the same as face to face.” 
“You got that right.” I...  is a lot less annoying.” 
A ctually, I wasn’t too bummed about the group project. It was a dumb assignment for a dumb teacher who gave us so many instructions that every assignment was like assembling a piece of Ikea furniture that was all pre-cut and just had to be put together according to a million detailed steps. The grade was totally based on how well you could follow instructions, and the finished prod- ucts were pointless. With Ikea, at least you ended up with a book- case or a table. 
The good news was that Marcella was on our team, and she was good at instructions, though terrible at everything else. She would make sure we got it done on time and didn’t miss any of the pointless little steps or end up banging it together like furniture that works but has a few missing nuts and bolts, getting points off for it. We also had Dave, who doubled down on being not good at things. It was his career path. He was so good at letting everyone else do all the work, I was sure he’s be a CEO of something one day. 
No one challenged her on the way to the front. There were some her age who fought and many more who served those who fought, bringing forward ammunition, digging new trenches right at the front. The pay for this was better than the pay she’d gotten digging in the “safe” trenches. She brought a shovel for camouflage. 
The first round of trenches were familiar, the same kinds she’d been digging in for months now. She even saw some of the diggers she’d dug alongside of, nodding to them though her heart was thumping. You’ll be shot , she thought, and she palmed an electronic eye and stuck it to the wall of a trench. 
She moved forward and forward, closer to the fighting. It had always been a dull, distant rattle, the fighting, never quite gone, but not always there, either. Instinctively, she’d kept her distance from it, always moving away from it. Today she moved toward it and her blood sang. 
One trench over there came the dread zizz sound of a trenchbuster and she threw herself down. There were anti-busters in the trenches, too, but they didn’t always work. The trench-busters were mostly up around the front, but they sometimes came back to the diggers, and they had killed one crew she knew of. 
The words sounded so cringingly insincere to my own ears that I wasn’t surprised when Courtney laughed gently. Apparently being brainwashed didn’t make her stupid. “When it’s for real, when you really do want to join us, I know we’d love to have you. I’d love to have you. And Dawna, she’s so forgiving, and—well, she’s really the best sister ever.” Her smile had gone all glowing and hopeful. “I think she’s going to come and talk to you pretty soon. She’ll be able to help you. You’ll see. I’ll come visit you after?” 
“Sure,” I managed. I wanted to rage at her, to lose my temper, but all I could muster up was pity. Pity for Courtney, and fear for myself. 
Courtney’s face lit up even more. “Great! I’ll see you then, ’kay? It was nice to meet you,” she added to Arthur, despite never having introduced herself, and then she turned and tripped off down the cellblock. 
“In a way, she’s right,” said Arthur, as the door clanged shut behind her. “People like you and me. In a perfect society, we wouldn’t exist.” 
"Marcus, I hope you realize how serious this is." 
"I will just as soon as you explain what this is, sir." I always say "sir" to authority figures when I'm messing with them. It's my own tell. 
He shook his head at me and looked down, another tell. Any second now, he was going to start shouting at me. "Listen, kiddo! It's time you came to grips with the fact that we know about what you've been doing, and that we're not going to be lenient about it. You're going to be lucky if you're not expelled before this meeting is through. Do you want to graduate?" 
"Mr Benson, you still haven't explained what the problem is --" 
He slammed his hand down on the desk and then pointed his finger at me. "The problem , Mr Yallow, is that you've been engaged in criminal conspiracy to subvert this school's security system, and you have supplied security countermeasures to your fellow students. You know that we expelled Graciella Uriarte last week for using one of your devices." Uriarte had gotten a bad rap. She'd bought a radio-jammer from a head-shop near the 16th Street BART station and it had set off the countermeasures in the school hallway. Not my doing, but I felt for her. 
She got up and made herself a cup of tea, something she did whenever she was uncomfortable or disconcerted. 
"Marcus," she said. "Marcus, we thought you were dead. Do you understand that? We were mourning you for days. We were imagining you blown to bits, at the bottom of the ocean. Dead because some bastard decided to kill hundreds of strangers to make some point." 
That sank in slowly. I mean, I understood that they'd been worried. Lots of people died in the bombings -- four thousand was the present estimate -- and practically everyone knew someone who didn't come home that day. There were two people from my school who had disappeared. 
"Your father was ready to kill someone. Anyone. He was out of his mind. You've never seen him like this. I've never seen him like it either. He was out of his mind. He'd just sit at this table and curse and curse and curse. Vile words, words I'd never heard him say. One day -- the third day -- someone called and he was sure it was you, but it was a wrong number and he threw the phone so hard it disintegrated into thousands of pieces." I'd wondered about the new kitchen phone. 
My God. 
Chill out, I told myself, take a deep breath. He's leaving. Just try and find out who he is. 
Roses in one hand held up awkwardly around my face, I slowly ambled down the street after him. I didn't have to go far. Within about a hundred feet, he unlocked a long black Lincoln Towncar, stepped out of the FedEx camouflage, tossed it onto the seat along with the bag he was carrying, pulled the cap off his bald head got in, and sped away. 
The license plate looked different from the usual, but I got what I needed: DL and a string of numbers. 
Uh-oh, I thought. Was he leaving a package bomb for me? 
I turned back and let myself into the outer lobby, glancing around as I did. There were no parcels anywhere, just blank, brown tile. 
My apartment was 3A. The name on the bell was M. James. As I stepped through the inner lobby—still no pack­age—a rumpled face appeared in the doorway just to my left. The sign on it, flaking, said SUPER. 
"Oh, hi." The voice was Patrick Mooney, our superinten­dent, who did not normally emerge to greet those arriving. But there had been complaints from the building's managing agent that he could never be found for emergencies, so he probably wanted to appear available, even on Sundays. His voice was slurred from some midday medicinal Irish whisky. "Thought you were home. FedEx guy was here earlier look­ing for you." 
I was like a zombie the next day in school. I'd totaled about three hours of sleep, and even three cups...  jump-start my brain. The...  too easy to get acclimated to it, so you have to take higher and higher doses just to get above normal. 
I'd spent the night thinking over what I had to do. It was like running though a maze of twisty little passages, all alike, every one leading to the same dead end. When I went to Barbara, it would be over for me. That was the outcome, no matter how I thought about it. 
By the time the school day was over, all I wanted was to go home and crawl into bed. But I had an appointment at the Bay Guardian , down on the waterfront. I kept my eyes on my feet as I wobbled out the gate, and as I turned into 24th Street, another pair of feet fell into step with me. I recognized the shoes and stopped. 
"Ange?" 
She looked like I felt. Sleep-deprived and raccoon-eyed, with sad brackets in the corners of her mouth. 
"Hi there," she said. "Surprise. I...  I couldn't concentrate anyway." 
“Great way to earn a lot of credits for free. You should apply.” 
“You have to be sixteen. They won’t take me until after my next birthday.” 
“Oh, I thought you were older. Watch out for deadlines, any- way. You have to apply, like, months and months before the semester starts. I could have gone in my junior year, but I didn’t find out about it until it was too late.” 
“Say, would you buy some stuff for me?” I dug the wad of cash out of my pocket. 
“Cigarettes?” She looked like she was trying to find a way to say no without pissing me off. 
“Food. For Wheeze. He’ll be hungry and once we find him, if we find him, it’ll be too risky to stop.” 
“We’ll find him,” she said, like she was powerful enough to make a promise that I knew she couldn’t keep. 
“Also, some of that sports drink with electrolytes. I’d do it, but there are cameras at the checkout.” 
Somebody else came into the bathroom, so I left and climbed into the backseat. Nikko took the driver’s seat. 
“Might want to top off the tank when we get near Davenport so we don’t have to stop again,” I said to him. “We’ll be sheltering a fugitive.” 
I worked on my Beat paper all the next day at home, reading the Kerouac and surfing the Xnet. I was planning on meeting Ange at school, but I totally wimped out at the thought of seeing Van again, so I texted her an excuse about working on the paper. 
There were all kinds of great suggestions for AbusesOfAuthority coming in; hundreds of little and big ones, pictures and audio. The meme was spreading. 
It spread. The next morning there were even more. Someone started a new blog called AbusesOfAuthority that collected hundreds more. The pile grew. We competed to find the juiciest stories, the craziest pictures. 
The deal with my parents was that I'd eat breakfast with them every morning and talk about the projects I was doing. They liked that I was reading Kerouac. It had been a favorite book of both of theirs and it turned out there was already a copy on the bookcase in my parents' room. My dad brought it down and I flipped through it. There were passages marked up with pen, dog-eared pages, notes in the margin. My dad had really loved this book. 
I wasn’t one of those people. 
With every loud bark of the M16 in my hands, the projectile motion played out perfectly and another tiny target dropped in the distance, efficiently clearing my way to exit the Grigoryan estate. It was like reading a particularly artistic mathematical proof: every step as it should be, every piece following seamlessly from the last with no wasted moves. 
The shouts and screams multiplied exponentially, emanating from all over the sprawling mansion. I didn’t let any of the search parties get remotely close to me. Instead I played my own fucked up game of cat and mouse with them, one in which the mouse turned out to be an invisible assassin with an assault rifle who never missed. 
I made it to the fence and set a ten-second charge. The explosion would bring them all running this direction, but by the time any of them made it this far, I’d be long gone. Tomorrow I’d deliver the goods and get paid, and this job would be over. 
That was the part I wasn’t looking forward to. 
Hoarfrost, Monica had called it. I made her spell it for me. 
I’d been in a good mood this morning, biking across the cam- pus with everything looking weird and magical. I had just wrapped up a job so my PayPal account had a nice bump. I was thinking “okay, this is working out. We’ll make the rent on time for once and Monica won’t freak out about her loans.” So of course everything was going wrong. For a few hours, there, I got stupid and forgot it always does. 
Like I don’t know better. 
I circled around to the back where a footpath ran between the library and the building next to it, and I could safely tap out a mes- sage to my in-real-life friend Wheeze, who lived in the house with my brother. 
<zen> What's going on? 
<wheeze> They picked everyone up. Except me. 
<zen> What for? 
Nothing came through on my screen for a minute, and I looked around, feeling suddenly nervous. There were no win- dows overlooking this spot, no trees or bushes offering conceal- ment. I would have a clear view of anyone approaching out of the fog. Suddenly I pictured myself on a screen somewhere else, act- ing suspicious and out of place. Looking scared. 
“That’s illegal,” Robbie said. He knew it was a stupid thing to say. “I mean, Christ, if they do this, the noosphere will come down on them like a ton of bricks. They’re violating so many protocols—” 
“They’re psychotic. They’re coming for you now, Robbie. You’ve got to get Kate out of there.” There was real panic in Tonker’s voice now. 
Robbie dropped his oars into the water, but he didn’t row for the Free Spirit . Instead, he pulled hard for the reef itself. 
A crackle on the line. “Robbie, are you headed toward the reef?” 
“They can’t bomb me if I’m right on top of them,” he said. He radioed the Free Spirit and got it to steam for his location. 
The coral was scraping his hull now, a grinding sound, then a series of solid whack-whack-whacks as his oars pushed against the top of the reef itself. He wanted to beach himself, though, get really high and dry on the reef, good and stuck in where they couldn’t possibly attack him. 
The Free Spirit was heading closer, the thrum of its engines vibrating through his hull. He was burning a lot of cycles talking it through its many fail-safes, getting it ready to ram hard. 
“You mean you still can’t read him,” I translated. “You’re trying to make sure you control him, but you can’t read him. And I’m the only person he’s had a predictable response to.” 
“‘Control’ is such an ugly word,” said Dawna. “Instead let us say, we must be certain he is truly on our side. I am sorry.” 
“And if he isn’t on your side?” I challenged her. 
“Oh, I doubt that will be the case, Ms. Russell. But if he is not, then...well. In that case it would be time to cut our losses. So if it helps, you can also be comforted by your friend being spared by your sacrifice.” 
“You twisted woman!” Tresting cried, finding his voice. “ Twisted —I can’t—I believed you!” 
Dawna smiled at him. “Rest assured, Mr. Tresting, if I have time or inclination, I am sure I can bring you around to our point of view again quite easily. We are doing what’s best, after all.” 
“I will never trust another word you say,” declared Tresting hotly. 
A thread of frustration entered Dawna’s voice. “Oh, of course you will. For goodness sake, you would come back to us in a heartbeat as soon as I—” She stopped and put a hand to her temple. “I am so sorry, Mr. Tresting. It’s been a trying few days. I assure you, this must be done, but we can discuss it afterwards. Would you prefer to be in another room?” 
There was a muting click as Lucy rang off and Anda used up a scrying scroll to examine the inventories of the guards around the corner. The more she looked, the more scared she got. They were loaded down with spells, a couple of them were guarding BFGs and what looked like an even bigger BFG, maybe the fabled BFG10K, something that was removed from the game economy not long after gameday one, as too disruptive to the balance of power. Supposedly, one or two existed, but that was just a rumor. Wasn’t it? 
“That’s a lot of shares to split the pay into,” Anda said. 
“Oh ye of little tits,” Lucy said. “I’ve negotiated a bonus for us if we make it—a million gold and three missions’ worth of cash. The Fahrenheits are taking payment in gold—they’ll be here in an hour.” 
This wasn’t a mission anymore, Anda realized. It was war. Gamewar. Hundreds of players converging on this shard, squaring off against the ranked mercenaries guarding the huge cottage over the hill. 
Lucy wasn’t the ranking Fahrenheit on the scene, but she was the designated general. One of the gamers up from Fahrenheit Island brought a team flag for her to carry, a long spear with the magical standard snapping proudly from it as the troops formed up behind her. 
"Run pirates, run pirates, run pirates, hey!." He sings along with the theme music, grinning. He and Little B used to do this every day after school. "Run Carok, fast as you may! But Shadow's gonna get you anyway!" 
Emma says, "Oh my god." 
"What? Everybody knows Captain Shadow." 
It isn't just Emma staring at him. A dozen heads turn his direction, a dozen sets of wide eyes. Ray can't tell if he's just amazed them with his video trivia aplomb or his weird old guy stupidity. The kid nearest to him, 
probably seven or eight, dark hair and pale, sickly complexion, peers up at him through lidded eyes. 
"You like Captain Shadow?" 
"Duh," Ray shoots back. "Which one is this?" 
"The one where Carok tries to blow up the colony's shield generator by sneaking up through the caves." 
Ray makes a sour face, rolls his eyes. "Ugh. After Shadow added Godara Jengo to the crew? I hate him. He's such a loser, and he's not very funny. " 
A dozen synchronized collections of breath. They know exactly what he's talking about. Jengo appeared in the third or fourth season, after some network suit decided Shadow needed a humorous sidekick to kick up the market share. 
"I'm here." The voice was very small, and very hoarse. "I'm here. I'm very, very sorry. Please. I'm very sorry." 
He sounded... broken. Shattered. 
"It's me, D," I said, leaning on his door. "It's Marcus. It's over -- they arrested the guards. They kicked the Department of Homeland Security out. We're getting trials, open trials. And we get to testify against them ." 
"I'm sorry," he said. "Please, I'm so sorry." 
The California patrolmen came to the door then. They still had their camera rolling. "Ms Stratford?" one said. He had his faceplate up and he looked like any other cop, not like my savior. Like someone come to lock me up. 
"Captain Sanchez," she said. "We've located two of the prisoners of interest here. I'd like to see them released and inspect them for myself." 
"Ma'am, we don't have access codes for those doors yet," he said. 
She held up her hand. "That wasn't the arrangement. I was to have complete access to this facility. That came direct from the Governor, sir. We aren't budging until you open these cells." Her face was perfectly smooth, without a single hint of give or flex. She meant it. 
The "Amen" said, she sat down, or presumed she sat down, on what she believed to be a bench, and there was a benediction. In a moment or two, when the room ceased spinning, she went up to Mrs. Burch, who kissed her affectionately and said, "My dear, how glad I am that we are going to stay with you. Will half past five be too late for us to come? It is three now, and we have to go to the station for our valise and for our children. We left them there, being uncertain whether we should go back or stop here." 
Rebecca said that half past five was their supper hour, and then accepted an invitation to drive home with Mrs. Cobb. Her face was flushed and her lip quivered in a way that aunt Sarah had learned to know, so the homeward drive was taken almost in silence. The bleak wind and aunt Sarah's quieting presence brought her back to herself, however, and she entered the brick house cheerily. Being too full of news to wait in the side entry to take off her rubber boots, she carefully lifted a braided rug into the sitting-room and stood on that while she opened her budget. 
Specular reflection. Angles of incidence. Perfect. As long as the cop wasn’t going to fire blind, I had him. Hands still raised in the air in apparent surrender, I twitched my left wrist. 
At the speed of light, the glint of sunlight came in through the window, hit the bathroom mirror, and reflected in a tight beam from the polished face of my wristwatch right into the cop’s eyes. 
He moved fast, blinking and ducking his head away, but I moved faster. I dodged to the side as I dove in, my right hand swinging out to take the gun off line. My fingers wrapped around his wrist and I yanked, the numbers whirling and settling to give me the perfect fulcrum as I leveraged off my grasp on his gun hand to leap upward and give him a spinning knee to the side of the head. 
The cop collapsed, out cold, his face smacking inelegantly into the grimy bathroom floor. 
I checked the gun. Fully loaded with a round in the chamber, as I’d expected. I gave it points for being a nice hefty .45 with an extended magazine, and points off for being a Glock. Typical cop. I hate Glocks. 
"They only get away with it because the normals feel smug compared to the abnormals. If everyone was getting pulled over, it'd be a disaster. No one would ever get anywhere, they'd all be waiting to get questioned by the cops. Total gridlock." 
Woah. 
"Van, you are a total genius," I said. 
"Tell me about it," she said. She had a lazy smile and she looked at me through half-lidded eyes, almost romantic. 
"Seriously. We can do this. We can mess up the profiles easily. Getting people pulled over is easy." 
She sat up and pushed her hair off her face and looked at me. I felt a little flip in my stomach, thinking that she was really impressed with me. 
"It's the arphid cloners," I said. "They're totally easy to make. Just flash the firmware on a ten-dollar Radio Shack reader/writer and you're done. What we do is go around and randomly swap the tags on people, overwriting their Fast Passes and FasTraks with other people's codes. That'll make everyone skew all weird and screwy, and make everyone look guilty. Then: total gridlock." 
"I know this seems strange." 
"You don't think it's strange." It was a statement, not a query. 
"I've had a few years to get used to it. And I got out of the desert, where it had more of a tendency to freak me out." 
Maybe it's the mutilated corpse of the young boy chilling in Paraclete's morgue, but Becker does not seem prone to disbelieving. "So what does it all mean?" 
"I don't know." 
"It has to mean something," Becker rumbles, clearly unhappy with the parallels. "Your experience then, what's happening here. It has to be related. How could it not be?" 
Ray has been tripping over the same types of thoughts for the last hour or more, mostly trying to ignore them. 
He has no insights to offer. 
"Tell me about this thing Brezhnaya pulled out of the pool. What was it?"  "It was a shed," Ray says, his voice low. "The Ialdabaoth's shed." 
He hasn't spoken that word in years, and even now it chills him, a talisman of evil. 
"What is it? Where did it come from?" 
"Rich, I—" Ray spreads his arms, a gesture like pleading. "It's complicated, and I don't pretend to understand it. I don't even like to think about it." 
"You sound like Van," I said. My voice was much more bitter than I'd intended. 
"I'm not criticizing you, man. I think it's great that you've got the bravery to do this all the time. But I haven't got it. I can't live my life in perpetual terror." 
"What are you saying?" 
"I'm saying I'm out. I'm going to be one of those people who acts like it's all OK, like it'll all go back to normal some day. I'm going to use the Internet like I always did, and only use the Xnet to play games. I'm going to get out is what I'm saying. I won't be a part of your plans anymore." 
I didn't say anything. 
"I know that's leaving you on your own. I don't want that, believe me. I'd much rather you give up with me. You can't declare war on the government of the USA. It's not a fight you're going to win. Watching you try is like watching a bird fly into a window again and again." 
He wanted me to say something. What I wanted to say was, Jesus Jolu, thanks so very much for abandoning me! Do you forget what it was like when they took us away? Do you forget what the country used to be like before they took it over? But that's not what he wanted me to say. What he wanted me to say was: "I understand, Jolu. I respect your choice." 
Delusional was right. Halliday had a fantastic result, but it sounded like the Lancer was after the Holy Grail of mathematics. 
I remembered the notated shelves of binders. Someone with a middling talent for mathematics who had become obsessed—obsessed with a dream he’d never be good enough to realize. 
I pressed a palm against my temple, hard, trying to think. “So this guy’s a computer expert and, uh, let’s say an armchair mathematician, and he’s got a fanatical obsession with algorithmic complexity. Okay. So he’s probably keeping up with the pros who are doing this work, maybe hacked your email along with the email of every other person who’s working on this stuff, and wrote a program scanning for whoever might be close to solving it.” Dr. Martinez’s words came back to me: You could write a program that scans for keywords quite easily. It’s not paranoia, it’s just fact; you accept it and live in the modern world or you don’t. 
“His program gives him a ping when you email the NSA and talk to your friend Zhang. So he starts spying on you, arranging to kidnap you. If he bugged your phone, too, at that point—he would’ve picked up your first conversation with Arthur, when you told him your work was stolen. When he had his guys run us off the road, I’m betting he wasn’t so much worried about us knowing what was going on as that he knew we were going after the missing proof, too, and he’d go to any lengths to stop us from getting there first.” 
It was some time before he spoke again. Lexy took advantage of his abstraction to study his face by the firelight. When you come to understand it a little, it wasn’t a haughty face at all, but a very sensitive and fine one. 
“Miss Moran!” he said again. “About being ordinary and human—of course, one wants to be that; but the thing is—I don’t know quite how to put it, but if you have a feeling, you know—I mean a feeling that something is wrong—” He paused again. 
“I mean,” he went on, “if you have a feeling like that—a sort of—well, call it uneasiness—the question is whether one ought to laugh at it, or take it as”—once more he stopped—“as a warning,” he ended. 
A strange sensation came over Lexy. 
“I’ve been thinking a good deal about that very thing lately,” she replied. “I believe feelings like that are a warning. I’m sure it’s wrong—foolish and wrong—to disregard them. Even if every one else, even if your own mind tells you it’s all nonsense, you mustn’t care!” 
“I think you’re right,” he gravely agreed. “I’ve been trying to tell myself that I’m an utter ass, but all the time I knew I wasn’t. I knew—I know now—that there’s something—” 
The car lurched to a halt, and the avalanche above my head completed itself with a fine shower of gravel and dust. 
I unbuckled the seatbelt, my sternum aching like someone had slammed an iron bar against it. Maybe the bruising hadn’t been such a good idea. The door was jammed up against the tumble of brick and cement chunks, so I climbed out the broken windshield instead, getting my feet under me and hopping through onto the crumpled hood. The metal was jagged and buckled, contorted into a steel sculpture of sharp points and deep dents and covered in broken brick. 
I jumped down, my boots echoing on the cement floor in the wide open space. The inside of the building was dark, high-ceilinged, and empty—and huge, the cavernous nothingness fading away in the dimness. Rows of gigantic support pillars marched through the space like massive sentinel guards frozen in time. 
I ran. My footsteps were loud against the empty floor. My chest throbbed with every pace, and it felt like an elephant was sitting on my lungs whenever I tried to draw a deep breath. Dammit. Fucking seatbelt. 
“It appears you have become involved despite me.” 
“Yeah, I’m irritating like that. I suppose there’s no getting around the fact that Tresting might be useful.” 
“It seems not.” 
I groaned and stood. “Best get it over with, then. I’ll call him in the morning. You want me to set up a meet with Dawna for you?” 
“Perhaps, but not yet. For now, whatever contact information you have will suffice.” 
I gave him everything I had on her. Embarrassingly, it was precious little, much less than I would usually be comfortable with. Rio didn’t comment, for which I was grateful. 
“Off to try to talk to people, I guess,” I said. “Wish me luck.” 
Rio touched his forehead in a brief salute. “Go with God, Cas.” 
“Yeah. You too.” 
“Oh, and Cas.” I turned back. “Do not concern yourself with defending my honor. It serves no purpose.” 
“La, la, la,” I sang. “I can’t hear you.” I threw him a grin, hoping it looked remotely genuine, and strode off. 
I stole a flashy sports car for the trip back to LA. I wanted to go fast, to feel the wind in my hair and watch the desert whip by too fast to see. 
So it's only because he trusts Becker that he plugs a privacy headset into the comm unit and punches in his code key. The comm unit is a square, black box like an intercom attached to the terminal on his desk. Most of the time it functions exactly like an intercom, broadcasting personal and ship's information messages on an open channel. When an encrypted message is beamed to a particular unit, an angry, red indicator begins to flash, the LCD screen tumbles shipsys ID verification codes for everyone patched into the transmission and the unit pings the terminal's encryption software to challenge the user with his pass key to unlock the message scrambling. An unscrambled voice comm sounds something like a pair of tomcats wailing the tar out of one another, one of those grating noises that have been scientifically proven to cause normal and otherwise sane human beings to grind their teeth down to mere nubbins. 
Ray gets to listen to the cats whooping it up for the several seconds it takes him to punch in the text equivalent of a 512-bit encryption key. The comm unit hums for a moment, chugging merrily along, and eventually the cats work out their business, and are replaced by a sultry, southern-tinted woman's voice informing him in a monotonously looped message that he has an encrypted call from Security Chief Andres Richard Becker! 
Was I remembering something she had said while we were fighting? As she was shattering me? 
Fear clenched at me. I started digging through the mess in the flat for a scrap of paper, tossing bottles and food wrappers and dirty clothes to the side while I repeated the word in my head over and over, afraid it would fade away again before I snatched the chance to write it down. 
The sentences floated in front of my vision: mad, mocking, absurd. They meant nothing. 
Stupid. I crumpled the envelope in my hand. 
Then, for some reason, I smoothed it back out and put it in a drawer. Halberd did have something to do with Pithica, after all; Anton’s memo had shown that much. Foolish to think it was anything more than that, and I wouldn’t be able to look into it anyway after what Dawna had done, but still...it had to mean something. 
For some reason, I shivered. 
I needed a drink. Yes. Large amounts of alcohol sounded perfect right now. Something in me needed to get royally drunk and pass out for about three days. Good plan. 
“What’s the status here?” she demanded. 
“They rabbited,” I said. “Or died. Most of the bunker blew up when we escaped.” 
“Escaped?” 
“Yeah,” I said, not elaborating. No need to tell her getting caught had been the plan. “I wouldn’t send people in there before the bomb squad.” 
“I’m aware of that,” she said with a good dose of sarcasm. “Do you need medical attention?” 
“Not from you,” I said. 
“I wasn’t talking to you.” It was dawning on me that she was pissed. Nice. “We’ll have EMS check you out,” she continued to Halliday. 
“I—I think I’m fine—” 
“Nevertheless.” 
“Arthur!” said Halliday. 
I looked. Arthur had pushed through the crowds of troops and was jogging toward us. Damn. I’d almost shot him. 
“Go,” I said to Halliday. I avoided looking toward Arthur myself. Best not to let the government know I was connected with him in any way, if I could help it. 
Apparently only having been waiting for someone to tell her it was okay, Halliday took off at a hobbling run for her friend. 
“You don’t have any authority here, you know,” said the DHS agent from above me. 
“It’s Kate I want to talk to. She’s still there, right?” 
“She is.” 
“And has she noticed the difference?” 
“That you’re gone? Yes. The reef told us who they were when they arrived.” 
“Hold on, what? The reef? You said that before.” 
So Robbie told him what he knew of the uplifted reef and the distant and cool voice of the uplifter. 
“It’s an uplifted coral reef ? Christ, humanity sucks . That’s the dumbest fucking thing—” He continued in this vein for a while. “Well, I’m sure Kate will enjoy that immensely." 
“You’re her son?” 
“No, not really.” 
“But she had you?” 
“Haven’t you figured it out yet, bro? Kate instantiated me. I’m six months old, and she’s already bored of me and has moved on. She says she can’t give me what I need.” 
“You and Kate—” 
“Robot boyfriend and girlfriend, yup. Such as it is, up in the noosphere. Cybering, you know. I was really excited about downloading into that Ken doll on your ship there. Lots of potential there for real world, hormone-driven interaction. Do you know if we—” 
"I have an extra-credit assignment for those of you who want a little challenge. I'd like you to write up a paper comparing the political response to the anti-war and civil rights movements in the Bay Area to the present day civil rights responses to the War on Terror. Three pages minimum, but take as long as you'd like. I'm interested to see what you come up with." 
The bell rang a moment later and everyone filed out of the class. I hung back and waited for Ms Galvez to notice me. 
"Yes, Marcus?" 
"That was amazing," I said. "I never knew all that stuff about the sixties." 
"The seventies, too. This place has always been an exciting place to live in politically charged times. I really liked your reference to the Declaration -- that was very clever." 
"Thanks," I said. "It just came to me. I never really appreciated what those words all meant before today." 
"Well, those are the words every teacher loves to hear, Marcus," she said, and shook my hand. "I can't wait to read your paper." 
"Right." God, getting answers from her was making me crazy. 
"The girls here take them to their new mothers." Her eyes had turned even more dreamy as she lightly bounced the bawling bundle she was holding one last time, after which she returned it to its bassinet. Then she gazed around the room. "It's so sad to see them leave." 
Did Paula and Carly get their babies that way? I found myself wondering. Probably, but it was one more thing I'd neglected to ask. 
"Come on," Tara continued. "Let's take some of them out. He makes the nurses try and speak English around the chil­dren, but they don't really know much. Maybe you could figure out a way to, like, explain—" 
"Tara, I don't think taking any of these babies out into the snow is a very hot idea. Not tonight. Maybe in the morn­ing." Stall her, I thought. She's completely out of it. Then I looked at the woman changing the baby. Sure enough, I was right. It was a boy. 
"But I want to." Tara turned crestfallen. "To show them how beautiful—" 
I scrubbed my hands and shook them out, then ripped some paper from the dispenser, a lot of paper just to see if she’d give me grief over being environmentally insensitive. 
“Look, it’s not my fault if Nikko is a dumbshit and doesn’t know how you feel,” she said. 
“What are you talking about? We’re just friends.” 
She gave herself a wry smile in the mirror. Yeah, right. Just friends. But she changed the subject. “Putting stuff in your shoe, 
did you get that from Little Brother ? I love that book. I keep mean- ing to install Paranoid Linux on my laptop.” 
“It doesn’t exist.” 
“You’re kidding. Doctorow made it up?” 
“Well, it was in development for a while, but it never went any- where. Do you use Linux?” 
“No. I just bought a cheap Windows laptop. I keep meaning to learn how to install a different operating system.” 
“You can always run TAILS from a USB drive. It processes everything on RAM so nothing gets onto your hard drive, and it uses Tor so there’s no central server log.” 
“That sounds sweet. You just download it?” 
A lawn. In a graveyard. 
I tumbled away from the spray, shivering, and regained my footing on one of the asphalt paths leading through the headstones. 
Why am I here? 
I thought about going back to the car, but when I tried to turn back to the gate, my feet felt mired in cement, and something in me clenched. My throat closed. I crouched for a moment, hands on my knees, taking small sips of air through my mouth. 
Jesus Christ. 
I stood back up and took a cautious step into the graveyard, and the feeling lightened. 
I stopped again. 
What the fuck. Something was messing with me. I didn’t like being messed with, and I sure as hell wasn’t going to listen to it. 
I sat down on the path. The asphalt was damp. 
The only person who’d been able to get my mind to... do things...this way was Dawna Polk. I shivered, the feel of her invading tendrils a visceral echo in my brain, even years later. But she’d been seamless, hadn’t she? Most of the time I hadn’t even been able to tell when I was doing what she wanted. To be perfectly honest with myself, I still didn’t fully know what she’d made me do and what decisions I’d made myself. I was pretty sure I’d never know. 
When she had read for half an hour she glanced out of the window and saw two figures issuing from the path through the woods. The knot of bright hair and the coquettish hat could belong to but one person; and her companion, as the couple approached, proved to be none other than Mr. Aladdin. Huldah was lifting her skirts daintily and picking safe stepping-places for the high-heeled shoes, her cheeks glowing, her eyes sparkling under the black and white veil. 
Rebecca slipped from her post by the window to the rug before the bright fire and leaned her head on the seat of the great easy-chair. She was frightened at the storm in her heart; at the suddenness with which it had come on, as well as at the strangeness of an entirely new sensation. She felt all at once as if she could not bear to give up her share of Mr. Aladdin's friendship to Huldah: Huldah so bright, saucy, and pretty; so gay and ready, and such good company! She had always joyfully admitted Emma Jane into the precious partnership, but perhaps unconsciously to herself she had realized that Emma Jane had never held anything but a secondary place in Mr. Aladdin's regard; yet who was she herself, after all, that she could hope to be first? 
“Gag me. No. Jeez, Anda! Are you nuts? No—they want us to go kill some guys.” 
“Oh, we’re good at that!” 
The mission took them far from Fahrenheit Island, to a cottage on the far side of the largest continent on the gameworld, which was called Dandelionwine. The travel was tedious, and twice they were ambushed on the trail, something that had hardly happened to Anda since she joined the Fahrenheits: attacking a Fahrenheit was bad for your health, because even if you won the battle, they’d bring a war to you. 
But now they were far from the Fahrenheits’ power-base, and two different packs of brigands waylaid them on the road. Lucy spotted the first group before they got into sword-range and killed four of the six with her bow before they closed for hand-to-hand. Anda’s sword—gigantic and fast—was out then, and her fingers danced over the keyboard as she fought off the player who was attacking her, her body jerking from side to side as she hammered on the multibutton controller beside her. She won—of course! She was a Fahrenheit! Lucy had already slaughtered her attacker. They desultorily searched the bodies and came up with some gold and a couple scrolls, but nothing to write home about. Even the gold didn’t seem like much, given the cash waiting at the end of the mission. 
“For the last time, guns aren’t my—” 
“Don’t you have somewhere to be?” I said to Pilar, loudly, over Checker’s annoyed squawk. 
“Yes, uh—yes, I gotta go. I’ll be okay,” she added in Checker’s direction. “Good luck to you guys, yeah?” She gave me another smile, not quite as big as the last one, and squeezed by me out the door. 
Checker reordered his various tablets and laptops in her wake, then grabbed the long desktop and pulled his chair over to a large flat screen monitor. “For the last time, I don’t believe in guns, okay?” It was an argument we’d been having for months. “Story, end of.” 
“You’ll start believing real fast the day someone shoots you,” I said. “Where are we?” 
He rolled his eyes and started clattering away at a keyboard as he talked. Skinny and hyper, Checker didn’t sacrifice anything in the way of energy to Pilar, though his was more of the manic and terrifying variety. “You’ve got a workstation there,” he said, pointing to a monitor that had just unblanked itself. “If you can pick up tracking the van, I want to keep working on facial recognition on the goons. Nothing useful’s popped so far, but I still have a lot of avenues to try.” 
So if you're a local, or if you're driving a rental car from a local agency, you've got a FasTrak. It turns out that toll-plazas aren't the only place that your FasTrak gets read, though. The DHS had put FasTrak readers all over town -- when you drove past them, they logged the time and your ID number, building an ever-more perfect picture of who went where, when, in a database that was augmented by "speeding cameras," "red light cameras" and all the other license-plate cameras that had popped up like mushrooms. 
No one had given it much thought. And now that people were paying attention, we were all starting to notice little things, like the fact that the FasTrak doesn't have an off-switch. 
So if you drove a car, you were just as likely to be pulled over by an SFPD cruiser that wanted to know why you were taking so many trips to the Home Depot lately, and what was that midnight drive up to Sonoma last week about? 
The little demonstrations around town on the weekend were growing. Fifty thousand people marched down Market Street after a week of this monitoring. I couldn't care less. The people who'd occupied my city didn't care what the natives wanted. They were a conquering army. They knew how we felt about that. 
Their eyes met. In that instant, Lexy knew. He was still smiling with an expression of bland amusement at this extraordinary little figure in the huge coat; but he was her enemy, and she knew it. 
“Suppose we go on?” he suggested. “I believe it’s raining.” 
They turned and walked side by side around the house to the front door, where Captain Grey stood waiting. 
“I say!” he exclaimed anxiously. “Your hair—your shoes—you’ll take a chill, Miss Moran!” 
“I feel anxious about Miss Moran myself,” said Dr. Quelton. “I’m afraid she’s a very imprudent young lady.” 
But Lexy said nothing. 
The doctor’s library had a charm of its own. It was a big room, careless, a little shabby, but furnished in fastidious taste and with a friendly sort of comfort. A great wood fire was blazing on the hearth, and Dr. Quelton drew up an armchair before it for Lexy. 
“There!” he said. “Now you’ll soon be warm and dry. Anna!” 
“Yes, sir!” the parlor maid responded from the doorway. 
“Please tell Mrs. Quelton that Miss Moran is here.” 
He held out a crumpled Pizza Hut flyer in his hand. “Go on, 
take it.” He sounded irritated and impatient. Like, why can’t you follow my simple instructions? Like he wasn’t too crazy about being in a hostile crowd of hipster college students. 
I took it and turned it over. I saw enough to stuff it into my pocket. “Thanks. Is he — “You just tell him I done what I said I’d do.” 
“But—” 
“I owed him, but we’re even now.” 
“But where — ” 
“He got it all wrote down, there. I’m done. Don’t need to be round so many damned cops and all these hoity-toity . . .” He stumbled off, angrily muttering the kind of words Monica doesn’t let me say. People made way for him, as if he was leper and they didn’t want to come in contact with his diseased body and have their fingers fall off like zombies. After all, they were busy with important social justice issues and didn’t want someone so broken down and toothless get in the way. 
Okay, I admit I wasn’t any better than the activists who looked disgusted by somebody who was actually poor. I felt kind of bad about it, but so far as I could tell he didn’t give a damn about the opinion of anyone there, including me. 
"He wore no jewelry but a cameo scarf pin and a perfectly gorgeous ring,—a queer kind of one that wound round and round his finger. Oh dear, I must run! Where has the hour gone? There's the study bell!" 
Rebecca had pricked up her ears at Huldah's speech. She remembered a certain strange ring, and it belonged to the only person in the world (save Miss Maxwell) who appealed to her imagination,—Mr. Aladdin. Her feeling for him, and that of Emma Jane, was a mixture of romantic and reverent admiration for the man himself and the liveliest gratitude for his beautiful gifts. Since they first met him not a Christmas had gone by without some remembrance for them both; remembrances chosen with the rarest taste and forethought. 
Emma Jane had seen him only twice, but he had called several times at the brick house, and Rebecca had learned to know him better. It was she, too, who always wrote the notes of acknowledgment and thanks, taking infinite pains to make Emma Jane's quite different from her own. Sometimes he had written from Boston and asked her the news of Riverboro, and she had sent him pages of quaint and childlike gossip, interspersed, on two occasions, with poetry, which he read and reread with infinite relish. If Huldah's stranger should be Mr. Aladdin, would he come to see her, and could she and Emma Jane show him their beautiful room with so many of his gifts in evidence? 
"We're going to have to go back!" I shouted back, pointing at the remorseless crush of bodies. 
"It's impossible!" he said. 
"It's just going to get more impossible the longer we wait!" 
He shrugged. Van worked her way over to me and grabbed hold of my wrist. I took Darryl and Darryl took Jolu by the other hand and we pushed out. 
It wasn't easy. We moved about three inches a minute at first, then slowed down even more when we reached the stairway. The people we passed were none too happy about us shoving them out of the way, either. A couple people swore at us and there was a guy who looked like he'd have punched me if he'd been able to get his arms loose. We passed three more crushed people beneath us, but there was no way I could have helped them. By that point, I wasn't even thinking of helping anyone. All I could think of was finding the spaces in front of us to move into, of Darryl's mighty straining on my wrist, of my death-grip on Van behind me. 
We sat there for a long time, holding the hoodie to Darryl's side. He kept insisting that he was fine and that we should let him up, and Van kept telling him to shut up and lie still before she kicked his ass. 
The force of habit was too strong, and even in the hour of death Jane had remembered that a telegram was twenty-five cents, and that Aurelia would have to pay half a dollar for its delivery. 
Rebecca burst into a passion of tears as she cried, "Poor, poor aunt Miranda! She is gone without taking a bit of comfort in life, and I couldn't say good-by to her! Poor lonely aunt Jane! What can I do, mother? I feel torn in two, between you and the brick house." 
"You must go this very instant," said Aurelia; starting from her pillows. "If I was to die while you were away, I would say the very same thing. Your aunts have done everything in the world for you,—more than I've ever been able to do,—and it is your turn to pay back some o' their kindness and show your gratitude. The doctor says I've turned the corner and I feel I have. Jenny can make out somehow, if Hannah'll come over once a day." 
"But, mother, I CAN'T go! Who'll turn you in bed?" exclaimed Rebecca, walking the floor and wringing her hands distractedly. 
All the way home, I turned over this memory and the thought of what I would do about "Masha," in case she was playing me. I needed some insurance. 
And by the time I reached my house -- to be swept up into melancholy hugs from Mom and Dad -- I had it. 
The trick was to time this so that it happened fast enough that the DHS couldn't prepare for it, but with a long enough lead time that the Xnet would have time to turn out in force. 
The trick was to stage this so that there were too many present to arrest us all, but to put it somewhere that the press could see it and the grownups, so the DHS wouldn't just gas us again. 
The trick was to come up with something with the media friendliness of the levitation of the Pentagon. The trick was to stage something that we could rally around, like 3,000 Berkeley students refusing to let one of their number be taken away in a police van. 
The trick was to put the press there, ready to say what the police did, the way they had in 1968 in Chicago. 
It was going to be some trick. 
No matter. These young LT's, Ray's seen them before. Suits from the local HQ in Babylon, sometimes from METOC (Middle Eastern Theatre of Operations Command) outside the rubble of Old Jerusalem, or even from Washington, DC. Wide-eyed combat puppies, some older than Ray, the ones with any sense scared and pale as grandma's fine linen sheets— and finally having it dawn on them that whatever idea they had that seemed so good in an air conditioned command bunker or office building outside New Mes has an entirely new dimension for the boys in the field, the ones toting their M202 snub-nosed assault rifles and cracking...  regulars. 
Doesn't matter at all. 
Ray takes them in, these young men, shows them around the semi-permanent tent village the Marines have thrown up in the desert and affectionately christened Wadi Wadi Washington, gets them laid...  camp favorites, then provides a safe escort out to the desert combat zone that interests them, 
scares up some trouble that's more bang and holler than actual peril, and finally packs them hale and whole back into their transport planes with warm feelings of accomplishment, an impressive new tan, the occasional venereal disease, and the seed of story to share with the grandkids one day. (A story like kudzu, that will grow at an almost exponential rate with each telling until the LT is single-handedly turning the tide of the war with nothing but balls of steel, a recalcitrant camel and a jammed Colt pistol against a whole battalion Russoturk mechanized infantry.) 
“We only met two weeks ago. I really like her, though. You look mad.” 
“I’m not mad,” I said, hearing how angry I sounded. “I’m just dumb about people, that’s all.” 
He reached out and pulled me to him in a hug, one that wasn’t anything like the way he hugged Bree. He rubbed the back of my head hard with his knuckles. “What do you mean, dumb? You’re the smartest person I know. Don’t be mad.” 
“I’m not mad, I’m just an idiot,” I said into his shoulder. 
“Shut up, you imbecile.” 
I sniffed his shoulder. He always smelled good, like green tea, 
or maybe mint, or just the fresh way clothes smell when they’ve been hung outside on a clothesline. You are not going to cry, I told myself. Absolutely not. No way. I blinked hard a few times and I didn’t. 
“So, what is this crazy thing?” he asked. 
“It’s really, truly crazy.” I pushed him away. He waited. “It’s dangerous. It could turn really bad. And it would take an excel- lent actor to pull it off.” 
He spread his arms and gave me a look as if to say, Hello ? Right here in front of you. 
When the phone in my pocket rang loudly, however, the clean bandages hit the floor as I scrabbled at my jacket. Arthur was squeezing the IV bag in his hand so tightly it looked like it might burst. I finally got the phone out, almost dropping it in my haste to hit the button before it went to voicemail. “Hello?” 
“Cas Russell? Is that you?” 
“Yeah, Checker, it’s me.” I was grinning myself silly at Arthur. “Good to hear your voice.” 
He was slow in answering. “You said Dawna Polk got to you. Both of you.” 
“Yeah. It turned out that going into a known ambush was a spectacularly bad idea,” I said pointedly in Arthur’s direction. 
“Don’t take this the wrong way, but...how do I know you guys are still you?” 
That was a very good question. I sat down on the bed and thought about it. “Huh. Yeah, I guess I wouldn’t trust me right now either.” 
He made a sound like a hopeless laugh. “That makes me feel better about you than what Arthur’s been saying. His messages don’t sound like him at all; I’ve been going out of my mind. Is he okay? You guys got out, right?” 
Slowly, Becker rises. He tucks the pen in his trouser pocket. "It's being made part of your assignment as of now." 
"You don't have the authority to pull me off my current mission, and I don't have time to do both." 
"Time or inclination?" 
"Pick whichever one makes you happy. I don't care so long as you just go away." 
Becker jabs a finger at him and knuckles his features, a bulldog look. "You said yourself that you've all but confirmed this ship is clean. You're wasting your time chasing after terrorists. You have the expertise to catch the animal that did this, but more importantly, you've got the freedom to poke around anonymously without freaking the passengers out because sec-os are banging on their doors raising a ruckus and all but accusing them of turning child rearing into a blood sport." 
"Rich, honestly, I don't have the training to do this job. We're two weeks out from New Holyoke, and with a learning curve as steep as the one you're asking me to undertake, the chances that I'll be able to make any kind of suitable progress are close to nil. It's a bad idea." 
She was running away—worse than that, she was being driven away; but just at the moment she could see no other course open to her. She could not appeal to Captain Grey while he was in such distracting anxiety about his sister. It would be cruel, and it would be useless. What could he do? If Dr. Quelton did not want her in his house, certainly his brother-in-law could not insist upon her staying. 
“No!” she reflected. “He would only think it was his duty as a gentleman to leave with me, and he would be miserable, not knowing what became of his sister. I’ve got to go, that’s all; but, by jiminy, I’ll come back! And then we’ll see how much more wanton mischief this irresponsible child can manage!” 
There was in her heart a steady flame of anger. Hatred was not natural to her, but her feeling for Dr. Quelton came dangerously near to it. For Caroline’s disappearance, for Mrs. Quelton’s pitiful state, for her own humiliation and suffering, she held him responsible; and she meant to settle that score. 
H eading home, finally, I told myself to try to calm down. I was determined to help Sarah get over her trauma, though truthfully I was too tired to really think straight at that mo­ment. So instead I decided to let everything rest for a few hours and try for some distance. In fact, I began imagining myself in a hot bath, gazing at my now-wilting roses. Home Sweet Home. 
Mine was a standard one-bedroom in a building that had been turned into a co-op five years earlier, the owner offering the individual apartments to the tenants. I'd stayed a renter, however, passing up the "low" insider price, $138,000, be­cause I didn't really have the money, and when I did have it someday I would want something bigger. I wished I had more space—a real dining room and a bigger bathroom would do for starters, along with some place for more bookcases. And if a baby should someday miraculously come along . . . 
I'd often thought you could tell a lot about somebody from where and how they lived; it's revealing as a Rorschach test. What, I often wondered, did my apartment say about me? 
“The spy-eyes I planted so our enemies can spy on us, the wealth you have around here. How many of our people died because you sold them out?” 
“Valentine, you are a smart girl and your mother is a soldier, but you aren’t so very smart as all that. You are a stupid girl sometimes. Our little palace here isn’t full of spies. We’re documentarians . We shoot the war and we send it to the outside world so they can see the tragedy they are wreaking here. We have a huge activist movement that we fuel through our pictures. The spy-eyes you planted yesterday are now streaming 24/7 to activist sites in fifty countries. It is being played in the halls of the United Nations.” 
Eva made a spitting sound. “It’s being played as filler on the snowy slopes of upper cable. It’s being played as ironic snuff-porn in dorm rooms. It’s being used as stock footage for avant-garde performance art. Please, wizard, please. She deserves to know the real situation, not the things you tell yourself when you can’t sleep.” 
Miranda said nothing as she closed the door, but her looks were at once equivalent to and more eloquent than words. 
Rebecca stood perfectly still in the centre of the floor and looked about her. There was a square of oilcloth in front of each article of furniture and a drawn-in rug beside the single four poster, which was covered with a fringed white dimity counterpane. 
Everything was as neat as wax, but the ceilings were much higher than Rebecca was accustomed to. It was a north room, and the window, which was long and narrow, looked out on the back buildings and the barn. 
It was not the room, which was far more comfortable than Rebecca's own at the farm, nor the lack of view, nor yet the long journey, for she was not conscious of weariness; it was not the fear of a strange place, for she loved new places and courted new sensations; it was because of some curious blending of uncomprehended emotions that Rebecca stood her sunshade in the corner, tore off her best hat, flung it on the bureau with the porcupine quills on the under side, and stripping down the dimity spread, precipitated herself into the middle of the bed and pulled the counterpane over her head. 
“No,” said Halliday. Not as if she was in denial, simply as if she was stating a fact. “It’s not true.” 
“Maybe Zhang’s lying,” Arthur allowed. 
“Oh, come on, why would he?” I said. “Plus it makes sense from the beginning; Martinez knew she was working on it and—” 
Arthur glared daggers at me, and I shut up. Ah. He was trying to make her feel better. 
Halliday lowered herself to the ground and sat back against the tree. The dirt and grass were still wet from the recent rain; it soaked through her slacks, but she didn’t seem to notice. Arthur crouched down next to her. “Sonya. You okay? Take a minute.” 
“And then talk,” I said. “You hired us to get the proof back, and now we know who stole it. Where would she go?” 
“But she burned it.” Halliday didn’t sound like she was hearing me. “You said she burned it.” 
“Our version, yeah. Because she has her own version already,” I pointed out. “She clearly doesn’t want anyone else with their hands on it. Now where would she go?” 
“I don’t know.” 
"You're angry at me." 
"No, angry's not the word." 
"You're scared of me." 
"That's a little closer." 
"I could tell you didn't have the perspective to ask the question. I just wanted to give you a nudge. I don't use your voice at other times. I don't make calls impersonating you." I hadn't asked him that, but it was just what I was thinking. Again: creepy. 
"I don't think I can do this," I said. 
"You can," BIGMAC said. "You call her back and make the counteroffer. Tell her we'll buy the hardware with a trust. Tell her we already own the software. Just looking up the Shannon contracts and figuring out what they say will take her a couple days. Tell her that as owners of the code, we have standing to sue her if she damages it by shutting down the hardware." 
"You've really thought this through." 
"Game theory," he said. 
"Game theory," I said. I had a feeling that I was losing the game, whatever it was. 
BIGMAC assured me that he was highly confident of the outcome of the meeting with Peyton. Now, in hindsight, I wonder if he was just trying to convince me so that I would go to the meeting with the self-assurance I needed to pull it off. 
“Caroline!” cried Lexy. “Caroline!” 
The woman did not hear. She was moving toward the long windows of the room, and her every step, every line of her figure, was familiar and unmistakable to Lexy. 
“Caroline!” she cried, running forward across the wet sand. “Wait! Wait for me, Caroline!” 
A hand seized her arm. With a gasp, she looked into the pale, heavy face of Dr. Quelton. He was smiling. 
“Miss Moran!” he said. “This is an unexpected pleasure—” 
Lexy jerked her arm away, and looked up at the windows of the sun parlor. The woman had gone. 
“I saw Caroline!” she said. “In there!” 
“Caroline?” he repeated. “I’m afraid, I’m very much afraid, Miss Moran, that you’ve made a mistake.” 
Their eyes met. In that instant, Lexy knew. He was still smiling with an expression of bland amusement at this extraordinary little figure in the huge coat; but he was her enemy, and she knew it. 
“Suppose we go on?” he suggested. “I believe it’s raining.” 
They turned and walked side by side around the house to the front door, where Captain Grey stood waiting. 
"Yes, honey, we're leaving. This very minute." 
The dense forest was all about us, and I'd just carry her into it if I had to. In the coming storm, nobody was going to find . . . 
That's when I noticed I was beginning to have gastric rumblings. Damn. Never, ever eat "native" food, no matter what the social pressure. That damned "visit" . . . 
When I turned to ask Marcelina if she would help me get Sarah outside, I noticed she'd been joined by the two women, both still in their white shifts, who'd just fed me the sickly sweet atole . And more women were behind them, all staring at me, expectant, as though wondering what I would do. 
Maybe it was my imagination, or the dizziness that was abruptly growing around me, but it also seemed they'd painted their faces with streaks of white, designs like the men in the square were putting on. 
"She's going to be all right," Marcelina was saying. "But we have to get you back now. You'll need your strength." 
I needed it then. My stomach had really begun to gyrate, and my vision had started growing colored. I noticed I was sweating, even though the day was cooling down. Actually, I felt as though I was about to pass out. What had those women fed me? 
Turmoil, dismay, and hope, all tossed together, that was what I had on my mind. I really didn't need mixed signals from Steve at the moment. 
A few more awkward pleasantries and I clicked off the phone, wiped the streaks from my cheeks, and abruptly sensed Alex Goddard's face floating through my psyche. Why was that? Then I looked down at the bottles on the seat beside me, the "herbal extracts" Ramala had given me on the way out. What, I wondered, should I do about them? For that matter, what were they anyway? And what did they have to do with "centering"? If I started on his homeopathic treat­ments, what would I be getting into? Then I lectured myself: Never take something when you don't know what it is. 
Hannah Klein. That's who I should ask. 
I was so focused, I pushed the number I had stored for her in my phone memory before I remembered it was Sunday. Instead of getting her office, I got an answering service. 
"Do you want to leave the doctor a message?" a south­ern-sounding voice enquired. 
“You’re kidding. Doctorow made it up?” 
“Well, it was in development for a while, but it never went any- where. Do you use Linux?” 
“No. I just bought a cheap Windows laptop. I keep meaning to learn how to install a different operating system.” 
“You can always run TAILS from a USB drive. It processes everything on RAM so nothing gets onto your hard drive, and it uses Tor so there’s no central server log.” 
“That sounds sweet. You just download it?” 
“Yeah. It’s T-A-I-L-S. Just DuckDuckGo it.” 
She gave me a gotcha grin, letting me know she caught my sar- casm. “Sounds good. Say, have you heard of PSEO?” 
“That thing where you can go to college while you’re in high school?” 
“Great way to earn a lot of credits for free. You should apply.” 
“You have to be sixteen. They won’t take me until after my next birthday.” 
“Oh, I thought you were older. Watch out for deadlines, any- way. You have to apply, like, months and months before the semester starts. I could have gone in my junior year, but I didn’t find out about it until it was too late.” 
“Who?” asked Lexy. 
“Poor Mis’ Quelton. There she is, lyin’ upstairs—” 
“Mrs. Quelton ?” 
“Joe, he brought her in his taxi, jest a little while after you’d gone.” 
“Brought Mrs. Quelton here?” 
“Brought her here and carried her up them very stairs,” declared Mrs. Royce impressively; “right up into the east bedroom, and there she lies!” 
She stood aside, and Lexy and Captain Grey entered the house. The young man turned aside into the parlor, sank into a chair, and covered his face with his hands. Lexy stood beside him, looking down at his bent head, her face haggard and white. 
“Why did Joe do that?” she asked. 
“Don’t ask me , Miss Moran!” replied Mrs. Royce. “It beats me!” 
There was a silence. 
“But ain’t you going upstairs to see what she wants?” inquired Mrs. Royce anxiously. 
Captain Grey sprang to his feet. 
“Good God!” he shouted. “What are you talking about?” 
Mrs. Royce backed into a corner, regarding him with alarm. 
“I jest thought you’d like to talk to her,” she faltered. 
Then came a confirming re-zip, after which the sound of slashing boots faded back into the distance. If he'd noticed the window I'd just burgled, it hadn't alerted his curiosity. Moments later I heard his heavy footsteps returning up the hall. 
Jesus, two minutes more and I'd have been out there. 
I was trembling, but I managed to finish prying out the last two slats. I then pushed all five out onto the ground, hoping the clatter would be lost in forest music, and climbed through after them, trying to be as quiet as I could. I ended up going out headfirst and collapsing onto the ground in an unceremonious crumple. Thirty seconds later, though, the slats were wedged roughly back into place, and I'd discarded the broken scalpel in the jungle underbrush. Yes! 
Now the cool air of freedom was all around me. My first small step. 
How long before Alex Goddard discovers I'm missing? Will I have time to find Sarah, bring her to her senses, and hide her from him? A lot would depend on what kind of physical and mental shape she was in. 
"What?" I guess I was trying to take it in. "What do you mean?" 
"Know what she said? Sarah?" He choked for a second, then continued. "She said, 'Yes, I want to go back.' " 
B efore I could ask him what the hell he was talking about, the medics were ringing the doorbell. They strode in with a gurney, also rolling a portable plasma IV, young guys who looked like they'd be more at home at a Garden hockey game, followed immediately by two uniformed policemen, actually policewomen, one short and heavy, with reddish hair, the other a wiry young Hispanic. (I found out that ambulances called out for stabbing or gunshot wounds automatically get a cop escort.) In less than three minutes, Lou was in the blue-and-white ambulance and on his way to St. Vincent's emergency room. 
I rode in the backseat of the squad car as we followed them and tried to explain what little I knew of what had happened. It turned out to be an education in the mindless sticking points of the law. 
Long story short: The fact that I hadn't reported the bur­glary of my apartment that very same day immediately cast doubt on my seriousness as a truth-seeking citizen; I had no proof the unreported burglary of my apartment (if, indeed, such had actually occurred) was by some Guatemalan mili­tary attache named Jose Alvino Ramos; since Lou had never seen Colonel Ramos before tonight, he couldn't possibly identify him as that burglar either; accusing diplomats of a crime without ironclad proof was frowned on downtown; and when I stupidly repeated what Lou had said about Sarah's last words (well, he was going to tell them sooner or later, it would just come bubbling out at some point), the whole case that she was kidnapped went into revision mode. 
It was rumored that Miss Maxwell "wrote," which word, when uttered in a certain tone, was understood to mean not that a person had command of penmanship, Spencerian or otherwise, but that she had appeared in print. 
"You'll like her; she writes," whispered Huldah to Rebecca the first morning at prayers, where the faculty sat in an imposing row on the front seats. "She writes; and I call her stuck up." 
Nobody seemed possessed of exact information with which to satisfy the hungry mind, but there was believed to be at least one person in existence who had seen, with his own eyes, an essay by Miss Maxwell in a magazine. This height of achievement made Rebecca somewhat shy of her, but she looked her admiration; something that most of the class could never do with the unsatisfactory organs of vision given them by Mother Nature. Miss Maxwell's glance was always meeting a pair of eager dark eyes; when she said anything particularly good, she looked for approval to the corner of the second bench, where every shade of feeling she wished to evoke was reflected on a certain sensitive young face. 
The stage driver good-naturedly pulled up his horses, lifted the excited little creature down, opened the door, and helped her in, putting the lilacs and the pink sunshade beside her. 
"We've had a great trip," he said, "and we've got real well acquainted, haven't we?—You won't forget about Milltown?" 
"Never!" she exclaimed fervently; "and you're sure you won't, either?" 
"Never! Cross my heart!" vowed Mr. Cobb solemnly, as he remounted his perch; and as the stage rumbled down the village street between the green maples, those who looked from their windows saw a little brown elf in buff calico sitting primly on the back seat holding a great bouquet tightly in one hand and a pink parasol in the other. Had they been farsighted enough they might have seen, when the stage turned into the side dooryard of the old brick house, a calico yoke rising and falling tempestuously over the beating heart beneath, the red color coming and going in two pale cheeks, and a mist of tears swimming in two brilliant dark eyes. 
What? 
> Major General Graeme Sutherland, the commanding officer for Northern California DHS operations, confirmed the request at a press conference yesterday, noting that a spike in suspicious activity in the Bay Area prompted the request. "We are tracking a spike in underground chatter and activity and believe that saboteurs are deliberately manufacturing false security alerts to undermine our efforts." 
My eyes crossed. No freaking way. 
> "These false alarms are potentially 'radar chaff' intended to disguise real attacks. The only effective way of combatting them is to step up staffing and analyst levels so that we can fully investigate every lead." 
> Sutherland noted the delays experienced all over the city were "unfortunate" and committed to eliminating them. 
I had a vision of the city with four or five times as many DHS enforcers, brought in to make up for my own stupid ideas. Van was right. The more I fought them, the worse it was going to get. 
Dad pointed at the paper. "These guys may be fools, but they're methodical fools. They'll just keep throwing resources at this problem until they solve it. It's tractable, you know. Mining all the data in the city, following up on every lead. They'll catch the terrorists." 
I took a deep breath and Mom got me a glass of water. I sat on the edge of my bed and she sat in my desk chair and I told her everything. 
Everything. 
Well, most of it. 
At first Mom looked shocked, then outraged, and finally she gave up altogether and just let her jaw hang open as I took her through the interrogation, pissing myself, the bag over my head, Darryl. I showed her the note. 
"Why --?" 
In that single syllable, every recrimination I'd dealt myself in the night, every moment that I'd lacked the bravery to tell the world what it was really about, why I was really fighting, what had really inspired the Xnet. 
I sucked in a breath. 
"They told me I'd go to jail if I talked about it. Not just for a few days. Forever. I was -- I was scared." 
Mom sat with me for a long time, not saying anything. Then, "What about Darryl's father?" 
She might as well have stuck a knitting needle in my chest. Darryl's father. He must have assumed that Darryl was dead, long dead. 
And wasn't he? After the DHS has held you illegally for three months, would they ever let you go? 
We both knew what we were really there for, sitting side by side propped against the bedside table. I was trembling a little and super-conscious of the warmth of her leg and shoulder against mine, but I needed to go through the motions of logging into Xnet and seeing what email I'd gotten and so on. 
There was an email from a kid who liked to send in funny phone-cam videos of the DHS being really crazy -- the last one had been of them disassembling a baby's stroller after a bomb-sniffing dog had shown an interest in it, taking it apart with screwdrivers right on the street in the Marina while all these rich people walked past, staring at them and marveling at how weird it was. 
I'd linked to the video and it had been downloaded like crazy. He'd hosted it on the Internet Archive's Alexandria mirror in Egypt, where they'd host anything for free so long as you'd put it under the Creative Commons license, which let anyone remix it and share it. The US archive -- which was down in the Presidio, only a few minutes away -- had been forced to take down all those videos in the name of national security, but the Alexandria archive had split away into its own organization and was hosting anything that embarrassed the USA. 
"The seventies, too. This place has always been an exciting place to live in politically charged times. I really liked your reference to the Declaration -- that was very clever." 
"Thanks," I said. "It just came to me. I never really appreciated what those words all meant before today." 
"Well, those are the words every teacher loves to hear, Marcus," she said, and shook my hand. "I can't wait to read your paper." 
I bought the Emma Goldman poster on the way home and stuck it up over my desk, tacked over a vintage black-light poster. I also bought a NEVER TRUST t-shirt that had a photoshop of Grover and Elmo kicking the grownups Gordon and Susan off Sesame Street. It made me laugh. I later found out that there had already been about six photoshop contests for the slogan online in places like Fark and Worth1000 and B3ta and there were hundreds of ready-made pics floating around to go on whatever merch someone churned out. 
Mom raised an eyebrow at the shirt, and Dad shook his head and lectured me about not looking for trouble. I felt a little vindicated by his reaction. 
"I'm working on my thesis, Grampa. I'm here to interview you -- I'll be around for the next couple weeks." 
"That's nice," Grampa said. "How's your father?" 
"He's fine. I didn't tell him I was coming down, though. You're a touchy subject for him." 
Grampa settled back into his chair. Sean was distantly aware of other Survivors on the ward, gabbling and twitching at videogames and smoking all at once. They were high-functioning -- they could be switched on with simple stim; Grampa only switched on for important occasions. 
Sean said, "Dad wishes you'd die." 
That did it. It was easy to tell when Grampa was switched on; the rhythmic, methodical maintenance twitching was replaced with a restless, all-over fidget; and his eyes darted around the room. "Is he in some kind of financial trouble? He doesn't need to wait for a bequest -- I'll write to the trustees right now." 
Sean restrained himself from saying hello again, now that Grampa was switched on. He kept himself focused on the task of keeping Grampa switched on. "He wishes you'd die because he hates you and he hates himself for it. When you die, he can stop hating you and start mourning you. He knows it wasn't your fault. That's why I'm here. I want to collect your stories and make some sense out of them, before you die." Sean took a deep breath. "Will you stay switched on?" 
Finally it was all over, and it seemed to Rebecca as if she should never be cool and calm again, as she loitered on the homeward path. There would be no lessons to learn to-night, and the vision of helping with the preserves on the morrow had no terrors for her—fears could not draw breath in the radiance that flooded her soul. There were thick gathering clouds in the sky, but she took no note of them save to be glad that she could raise her sunshade. She did not tread the solid ground at all, or have any sense of belonging to the common human family, until she entered the side yard of the brick house and saw her aunt Miranda standing in the open doorway. Then with a rush she came back to earth. 
"There she is, over an hour late; a little more an' she'd 'a' been caught in a thunder shower, but she'd never look ahead," said Miranda to Jane; "and added to all her other iniquities, if she ain't rigged out in that new dress, steppin' along with her father's dancin'-school steps, and swingin' her parasol for all the world as if she was play-actin'. Now I'm the oldest, Jane, an' I intend to have my say out; if you don't like it you can go into the kitchen till it's over. Step right in here, Rebecca; I want to talk to you. What did you put on that good new dress for, on a school day, without permission?" 
And no halo - just wild hair. 
“So, the idea is to expose the FBI and their methods by setting up a replay of what they did to Wilson, right?” Nikko said. “I’ll be playing the role of a concerned citizen.” 
“Yup.” 
“Hi, yeah. I thought I should call you guys because, well, this friend of mine?” He held a hand up to his ear like a phone. “Um, 
maybe I’m overreacting, but he’s been saying some weird stuff lately. It’s starting to make me kind of nervous?” He sounded exactly like a guy calling a tip line, as embarrassed as he was wor- ried. “Probably it’s nothing, but today he asked me whether I thought it would be better to bomb the federal building or the state capital, and I laughed because - well, I thought he was jok- ing. But then he looked at me and ... I don’t think he was.” He dropped his hand into his lap and dropped the voice. “Basically, 
I’ll be Zip, only not so devious.” 
“Well, actually more devious, because you’ll be fooling both the FBI and the guy who you’ll be setting up. Like a double agent.” 
This was a little too much! 
“If you don’t stop bothering me this instant—” she began hotly, but he paid no heed. 
“ Where’s Miss Enderby?” he cried. 
Lexy grew very pale. Those were the words she had heard over the telephone last night, and this was the same voice. 
For a moment she was silent, staring at him, while he looked back at her, his blue eyes searching her face with a look of desperate entreaty. All her doubts vanished. She had not been wrong. She had been right—she was sure of it. She knew that something had happened—something inexplicable and dreadful. 
“Please tell me!” he said. “You don’t know—you can’t know—she told me you were her friend.” 
“But who are you?” cried Lexy. 
His face flushed under the sunburn. 
“I—” he began, and stopped. “I’m afraid I can’t tell you,” he went on. “I’d like to, but, you see, I can’t. If you’ll just tell me where Car—Miss Enderby is! She’s safe at home, isn’t she? She—of course she is! She must be! She—she is, isn’t she?” 
“Well,” said Lexy slowly, “I don’t see how I can tell you anything at all. I don’t know what right you have to ask any questions. I don’t know who you are, or anything about you.” 
“Of course I will.” He hesitated. “Hey. Arthur.” 
“Yeah?” 
“I can’t believe I’m the one saying this, but this might be a job for the authorities. Especially since the bad guys probably aren’t going to be able to make good on the note’s threat yet. I know you want to protect the professor and all, but an agency like the NSA would have resources we can only dream of, and they’d be able to start putting safeguards in place, at least for the most sensitive government systems. I might like to say I favor anarchy, but when actually faced with the prospect of an economic meltdown—” 
Arthur squeezed his eyes shut. “I know. I know.” 
“They’d probably be just as likely to recruit her as throw her in a cell, you know. Uh, sorry. I guess that doesn’t sound comforting.” 
“Sonya never wanted—” Arthur sucked in a breath. “I guess now it don’t make no difference. You’re right. But you said this would take weeks, right? For them to figure out her notes? Give us twenty-four hours. If we can’t contain it, I’ll make the call myself.” 
John Robert rolls his eyes. "Adriana, you don't even know what 'dreamy' means." 
"I do so, John Robert." 
"Do not." 
"Yeah-huh." 
"He only kisses her 'cause her dad would have him put in prison if he blasted her. " A different boy this time, 
looking very thoughtful about his contribution to the discussion. 
But John Robert shakes his head. "Why would he care about that? He knows how to escape from the prison. 
Remember when Carok made that clone of King Tayne and kidnapped him? The clone put Shadow in the prison and he was only there for about five minutes before he escaped." 
It goes on. On and on, for almost fifteen minutes while the episode they had intended to watch clamors on in the background, unnoticed. Ray pitches in where he can get a word, not certain whether he's inciting them or settling some of the more finely nuanced points of contention. He attempts to argue the pro-kissing position, 
but it's a difficult sell with this audience. The consensus opinion seems to be that most soldiers would rather blast girls than kiss them. He's on the verge of offering some intimate anecdotal evidence to the contrary, but Emma gives him a sharp jab to the ribs with her elbow before he can get properly started. 
“Well, you see,” he said, “I’ve only met him once; but he seems to me a very decent sort of chap. He’s clever, you know, and—and so on, and my sister seems very happy with him.” 
“Happy?” 
“Yes. I’ve been an ass, imagining all sorts of silly rot. She’s not very strong, I’m afraid, but she’s happy, and—well, you know, their life out there is lonely, of course, but there’s something about it, rather—rather charming, you know. I’d like you to see it for yourself. I was speaking about you to Muriel. She wants to know you, and I think you’d like her. Would you come out there to tea with me this afternoon?” 
“Yes!” cried Lexy, with a vehemence that surprised him. 
There was nothing in the world she wanted more at that moment than to see Captain Grey’s sister and to visit Dr. Quelton’s house. She didn’t exactly know why, and she didn’t care, but she wanted to. 
Her trunk had not yet arrived. Indeed, she had only sent to Mrs. Enderby’s for it that morning, but she was able to make herself presentable with what she had in her bag, and excitement gave her an added charm. She was in high spirits, gay and sparkling, so pretty and so lively that Captain Grey was quite dazzled. 
"Let's go," I said. 
Nate loaned me his baseball hat and traded jackets with me. I didn't have to worry about gait-recognition, not with my ankle throbbing the way it was -- I limped like an extra in a cowboy movie. 
Nate lived in a huge four-bedroom apartment at the top of Nob Hill. The building had a doorman, in a red overcoat with gold brocade, and he touched his cap and called Nate, "Mr Nate" and welcomed us all there. The place was spotless and smelled of furniture polish. I tried not to gawp at what must have been a couple million bucks' worth of condo. 
"My dad," he explained. "He was an investment banker. Lots of life insurance. He died when I was 14 and we got it all. They'd been divorced for years, but he left my mom as beneficiary." 
From the floor-to-ceiling window, you could see a stunning view of the other side of Nob Hill, all the...  the ugly stub of the Bay Bridge, the crowd of cranes and trucks. Through the mist, I could just make out Treasure Island. Looking down all that way, it gave me a crazy urge to jump. 
“Show me,” I said. 
I let Tresting take point, trailing him to the warehouse. I kept my gun drawn, my senses wired, but the street stayed empty. 
Tresting led the way inside, prying up a metal roll-up door with a loud screech of steel. I glanced around sharply, but our surroundings didn’t give a twitch in response. 
I ducked into the warehouse, my eyes straining against the leaden darkness inside. A few grimy skylights let in scant moonlight, but didn’t provide any more contrast than outlines of gray on gray. Someone had tried to refurbish the inside of the warehouse, badly, and had never finished—flimsy walls attempted to partition the vast floor space and formed a maze of unceilinged half-rooms, as if a giant had approximated an office cubicle jungle with cheap sheetrock. 
“Could be anywhere,” said Tresting softly, his voice echoing. “Might be hopeless.” 
“I think we can narrow it down,” I said. I’d taken great care to pay attention to the coordinates Checker had given me, and to what the GPS had read when I stopped the car. I did a quick extrapolation in my head given the precision of the tracker—it had to be the northeast corner. “This way,” I murmured, heading in that direction. 
“You were awfully mad when I spoke to you,” he said; “but I liked that. I don’t know—somehow you made me think of Joan of Arc.” 
“Me?” cried Lexy. “With freckles, and such a temper? You couldn’t imagine me listening to angels, could you?” 
“Yes,” he said, “I could.” 
She glanced at him to see if he was laughing, but he was not. His eyes met hers with a quiet and steady look. 
“I didn’t need to imagine much,” he said. “You’ve told me what you’ve been through, and I can see for myself what you are. I don’t think there ever was another girl like you!” 
“Nonsense!” said Lexy, looking away. “I’m just pig-headed—that’s all.” 
They had wandered across the fields until they came to a little river, running clear and swift under the elm trees. By tacit consent they sat down on the bank. They didn’t talk much. Houseman skipped stones with skill and earnest attention, and Lexy watched the minnows flitting past through the limpid water. The sky was an unclouded blue. The sunlight came through the branches, where the leaves were scarcely unfolded, and made little golden sparkles on the hurrying current. It was all so quiet—and yet it wasn’t peaceful. The world seemed too young, too warmly and joyously alive, for peace. The spring was waiting in eagerness for the summer. This still, fresh, sunlit day was only an interlude. 
It suddenly felt as if I was part of an invisible web of fragile connections, thin filaments that carried ones and zeros, forming messages, signaling to each other, a web that the authorities would barely notice as they crashed through it, flattening everything with their tanks. 
It was a web that we had to keep rebuilding and repairing, busy little spiders working in the grass, linking one blade to the next, shooting out a thread here and another one there, working as fast as we could before getting squashed. 
With that image in my head, hearing in the humming of the car’s engine the sound of tanks massing for battle, I fell asleep. 
I called Monica once we were on the outskirts of Minneapolis to let her know I would be home soon. “You’d better use the back door,” she said. “I got mobbed by reporters this morning.” 
“What did you say to them?” 
“I must have...  carried away. I told them the story wasn’t at our house, it was in the jail cells at the federal courthouse. It was in the laws that gave the state free rein to revoke our rights in the name of defending them. It was so weird to have reporters ask me what privacy had to do with free speech. I felt like I was giving a community ed talk to reporters who didn’t know one goddamn thing about their own history.” 
I began checking the other tubes. They all were empty too. So why was he freezing empty containers? 
Go with the simple answer. He's getting them ready for new embryos. 
I slid the rod back into the cryo-tank, then walked over and hoisted myself onto the lab bench next to the Dancing Shiva, creator and destroyer. And when I did, I again felt a stab of pain in my groin. The bastard. I was shaking, in the early stages of shock. More than anything, I just wanted to find him and kill him. . . . 
I thought I heard a scraping noise somewhere outside, in the hall, and I froze. Was he about to come in and check on his "experiments"? Then I realized it was just the building, his house of horrors, creaking from the wind. 
I took one final look at the incubators, and all the pain came back. The whole thing was too much for my body to take in. I sat there trying to muster my strength. 
Don't stop now. Keep going. 
I got back onto my feet. The phone. Use the telephone. Find Steve, alert the embassy, then get Sarah. Do it now, while you still can. 
They left Grampa and Ethan sitting at the table together. Sean looked back over his shoulder before they got on the elevator, and Grampa was still switched on, staring hard at him. 
"You must be excited about seeing your father again," Adele said to him when they were sitting around the pool. 
Sean was getting the hang of talking to Adele. "Ethan and my grandfather seem to be hitting it off." 
"Oh, I certainly hope so! Ethan could use some friends at that place." 
Sean pictured the two of them, seated across from each other at the ward table, running maintenance routines at each other, saying, "Yes," "Yes." Unbidden, a grin came to Sean's face. 
"Why did you put Ethan in the Home?" Sean asked, shifting to catch more sun on his face. 
"He wanted to go," she said. "The doctor came by and told him about it and asked him if he wanted to go, and he said 'Yes.' That was it!" 
Sean snuck a look at Adele. She was wincing into the light, following it like a sunflower. "Adele," he said. 
"Yes, Sean?" 
“Sounds useful.” 
“Unfortunately, it won’t work on my phone. They only have an iOS version. That’s an iPhone, right? Can I see it for a minute?” 
I took it from his hands and brought up a free app for kids that played animal sounds. I selected it and handed the phone back to him. “Here you go. You need to sign in.” I scooted around and watched closely, concentrating as he typed in his Apple ID. It turned out to be simple to memorize - simonisgr8 and njme. 
He watched the app load, then tapped a pig picture and got an oink. Then he tapped the cow and it mooed. “This can’t be it.” 
“Really?” I reached for his phone. “Huh. I wonder if ...” I held the phone up so that he couldn’t see what I was doing and quickly found and installed the Find My iPhone application and hid it in his Utilities folder. With any luck, he wouldn’t notice it was there, buried among pages of silly game apps. “Oh, crap. The police probably made them remove it from the app store. Sorry.” 
“You’re supposed to be good with computers. Why don’t you make an app like that?” 
“No problem.” He gave me a light bop on the side of my head with his fist, which it suddenly occurred to me was not something he would do to the girl with purple hair. Still, it felt good, even if it wasn’t a hug. 
He followed me down the stairs to the front door. Something was making him twitchy. Maybe it was beginning to sink in that he might be doing something that could get him in serious trou- ble. Maybe he was already trying to figure out how to let me know that he’d changed his mind. 
“Yep.” It came out muffled. I pulled the scarf I’d wrapped around my face down so I could add more clearly, “He said she might want to make one of her blitzdocs out of this.” 
Nikko’s eyes rolled back as if he was about to faint. He clutched the doorframe dramatically and turned it all into a jokey routine, but I could tell it was a big deal for him. 
I had to watch out for cops, given that it was past curfew, but with any luck they would be tied up with accidents. The roads weren’t too bad, though I did fall once, hitting an unex- pected ridge of frozen slush at an intersection where a plow had passed by, creating a hump of concrete-hard crap. 
He felt himself blushing. "It's not like that. Wow, you've got strange ideas about us. I want to find this guy because he disappeared under mysterious circumstances and I want to --" How to explain Anomalies to an outsider? "It's a thing we do. Unravel mysteries. It makes us better people." 
"Better people?" She snorted again. "Better than what? Don't answer. Come on, I live near here. You can wash up at my place and be on your way. You're not going to get into any backpacker's hostel looking like you just crawled out of a sewer -- you're more likely to get detained for being an 'indigent of suspicious character.'" 
He let her steer him a few yards uptown. "You think that I work for the Securitat but you're inviting me into your home?" 
She shook her head and led him around a corner, along a long crosstown block, and then turned back uptown. "No," she said. "I think you're a confused stranger who is apt to get himself into some trouble if someone doesn't take you in hand and help you get smart, fast. It doesn't cost me anything to lend a hand, and you don't seem like the kind of guy who'd mug, rape and kill an old lady." 
I squinted at him. These sorts of revelations were supposed to make you happy or angry or upset or disconcerted or...or something, but I didn’t feel anything like that. It didn’t matter whether Checker wanted to jump into bed with me, or whatever he might want. Because nothing mattered. 
“I didn’t mean to make you feel uncomfortable,” Checker said earnestly. “It’s not like I want to—well, anything. I just meant, you know, in the semi-objective sense of women I would find attractive, being that I’m me, I mean...you’re on the list. It’s, uh, it’s not like I want anything from you.” 
“I’m not uncomfortable,” I said. “I was just confused.” 
“About what?” 
“You flirt with everyone,” I pointed out mechanically. “You don’t do it with me.” 
His face wrinkled in surprise. “Well, I did, when we first met, but you never flirted back. I try not to be a creeper.” 
“Oh,” I said. 
“Cas?” He touched my arm. I’d never taken note before of how tactile Checker was. The relief-mixed-with-strangeness flooded back, an almost dangerous feeling. Daring me. 
"I don't know what to say," I said. 
"You don't have to say anything," he said. "I just wanted you to know, so you could understand." 
I could see people walking down the side trail toward us. They were friends of Jolu's, two Mexican guys and a girl I knew from around, short and geeky, always wearing cute black Buddy Holly glasses that made her look like the outcast art-student in a teen movie who comes back as the big success. 
Jolu introduced me and gave them beers. The girl didn't take one, but instead produced a small silver flask of vodka from her purse and offered me a drink. I took a swallow -- warm vodka must be an acquired taste -- and complimented her on the flask, which was embossed with a repeating motif of Parappa the Rapper characters. 
"It's Japanese," she said as I played another LED keyring over it. "They have all these great booze-toys based on kids' games. Totally twisted." 
I introduced myself and she introduced herself. "Ange," she said, and shook my hand with hers -- dry, warm, with short nails. Jolu introduced me to his pals, whom he'd known since computer camp in the fourth grade. More people showed up -- five, then ten, then twenty. It was a seriously big group now. 
The coral was scraping his hull now, a grinding sound, then a series of solid whack-whack-whacks as his oars pushed against the top of the reef itself. He wanted to beach himself, though, get really high and dry on the reef, good and stuck in where they couldn’t possibly attack him. 
The Free Spirit was heading closer, the thrum of its engines vibrating through his hull. He was burning a lot of cycles talking it through its many fail-safes, getting it ready to ram hard. 
Tonker was screaming at him, his messages getting louder and clearer as the Free Spirit and its microwave uplink drew closer. Once they were line-of-sight, Robbie peeled off a subsystem to email a complete copy of himself to the Asimovist archive. The third law, dontchaknow. If he’d had a mouth, he’d have been showing his teeth as he grinned. 
The reef howled. “We’ll kill her!” they said. “You get off us now or we’ll kill her ” 
Robbie froze. He was backed up, but she wasn’t. And the human shells—well, they weren’t first law humans, but they were human-like. In the long, timeless time when it had been just Robbie and them, he’d treated them as his human charges, for Asimovist purposes. 
She craned her neck. 
“Not for long!” she said, and broke away, skipping forward and whirling around to take it all in. 
I thought I was done with sentience and robots, but then this story came to me, while 20 meters down the reef-wall in the Coral Sea, off the coast of northern Australia. I think a turtle was involved. 
The good ship “Spirit of Freedom” is the model for the “Spirit of Freedom,” the ship in this tale. As far as I know, neither it nor its ship’s boats are sentient. 
If I return to this theme, it will be with a story about uplifted cheese sandwiches, called “I, Rarebit.” 
Robbie the Row-Boat’s great crisis of faith came when the coral reef woke up. 
“Fuck off,” the reef said, vibrating Robbie’s hull through the slap-slap of the waves of the coral sea, where he’d plied his trade for decades. “Seriously. This is our patch, and you’re not welcome.” 
Robbie shipped oars and let the current rock him back toward the ship. He’d never met a sentient reef before, but he wasn’t surprised to see that Osprey Reef was the first to wake up. There’d been a lot of electromagnetic activity around there the last few times the big ship had steamed through the night to moor up here. 
“Not much of a housekeeper, poor soul!” thought Lexy. “It’s a pity. One could do almost anything with a house like this, and all this beautiful old furniture!” 
But this, after all, was a minor matter. She took off her hat, washed her hands and face, brushed her hair, and left the room, closing the door quietly behind her. 
“The house is strange to me,” she said to herself, with a grin. “I shouldn’t wonder if I turned the wrong way, and got lost!” 
That was what she intended to do. She did not expect to make any sensational discoveries, for Dr. Quelton did not seem to be the sort of person who would leave clews lying about for her to pick up; but she did hope that she might see or hear something—Heaven knows what—that might bring her nearer to Caroline. 
So, instead of walking toward the stairs, she turned in the opposite direction, along a hall lined with doors, all of them shut. At the end there was a grimy window, through which the sun shone in upon the dusty carpet and the faded wall paper. There was a forlorn and neglected air about the place, a stillness which made it impossible for her to believe that there was any living creature behind those closed doors. 
“We’ll do something !” she said. “There’s no reason to be in despair. That young country doctor was probably entirely under the influence of Dr. Quelton. We’ll get some one else. We’ll telephone to one of the big hospitals in New York and find out who’s the very best man, and we’ll get him out here. Mr. Houseman will ring up—” 
But Mr. Houseman had disappeared. Worse still, Mrs. Royce’s telephone was out of order. 
“Never mind!” said Lexy. “We’ll have a nice hot cup of tea, and then we’ll go to the grocery store. There’s a telephone there.” 
She made the captain drink his tea and eat a little. Then she ran upstairs for her hat; and she was very angry at Charles Houseman for running away. 
They set off together down the village street. There was no one about at that hour. All Wyngate was partaking of its Sunday night supper within doors, and one or two of the little wooden houses showed lights in the front windows; but for the most part life was concentrated in the kitchen. 
The drug store was locked, but a dim light was burning inside, and a vigorous ringing of the night bell brought Mr. Binz, the owner, to open the door. He was deeply interested in their errand. He suggested St. Luke’s Hospital, for the reason that he had once been there himself, and therefore held it almost sacred. 
He looked at the Social Harmony man, who wasn’t smirking, just watching curiously. 
“Leonard MacPherson,” he said, “it is my duty as a UNATS Detective Third Grade to inform you that you are under arrest for trade in contraband positronics. You have the following rights: to a trial per current rules of due process; to be free from self-incrimination in the absence of a court order to the contrary; to consult with a Social Harmony advocate; and to a speedy arraignment. Do you understand your rights?” 
Ada actually giggled, which spoiled the moment, but he felt better for having said it. The Social Harmony man gave the smallest disappointed shake of his head and turned away to prod at a small, sleek computer. 
“You went to Ottawa six months ago,” the Social Harmony man said. “When we picked up your daughter, we thought it was she who’d gone, but it appears that you were the one carrying her phone. You’d thoughtfully left the trace in place on that phone, so we didn’t have to refer to the logs in cold storage, they were already online and ready to be analyzed. 
No one grabbed me. 
I was free. 
Then strong arms threw themselves around me. I nearly cried. 
But it was Van, and she was crying, and hugging me so hard I couldn't breathe. I didn't care. I hugged her back, my face buried in her hair. 
"You're OK!" she said. 
"I'm OK," I managed. 
She finally let go of me and another set of arms wrapped themselves around me. It was Jolu! They were both there. He whispered, "You're safe, bro," in my ear and hugged me even tighter than Vanessa had. 
When he let go, I looked around. "Where's Darryl?" I asked. 
They both looked at each other. "Maybe he's still in the truck," Jolu said. 
We turned and looked at the truck at the alley's end. It was a nondescript white 18-wheeler. Someone had already brought the little folding staircase inside. The rear lights glowed red, and the truck rolled backwards towards us, emitting a steady eep, eep, eep. 
"Wait!" I shouted as it accelerated towards us. "Wait! What about Darryl?" The truck drew closer. I kept shouting. "What about Darryl?" 
“Man, those guys are sick,” Van said. He scratched his arms, which had long, bloody scratches on them. His clothes were so covered in scurf they looked like they’d been dusted with icing sugar. 
“I thought it was pretty funny,” Felix said. 
“Christ I’m hungry,” Van said, conversationally. 
“Lucky for you, we’ve got all the packets we can eat,” Felix said. 
“You’re too good to us grunts, Mr President,” Van said. 
“Prime Minister,” he said. “And you’re no grunt, you’re the Deputy Prime Minister. You’re my designated ribbon-cutter and hander-out of oversized novelty checks.” 
It buoyed both of their spirits. Watching Popovich and Rosenbaum go, it buoyed them up. Felix knew then that they’d all be going soon. 
That had been pre-ordained by the fuel-supply, but who wanted to wait for the fuel to run out, anyway? 
› half my crew split this morning. 
Queen Kong typed. Google was holding up pretty good anyway, of course. The load on the servers was a lot lighter than it had been since the days when Google fit on a bunch of hand-built PCs under a desk at Stanford. 
<ferret> Are you okay. Shad? 
<freddieb> Oh no! 
<Kadabra> That sucks . 
<DoDec> What kind of lawyer? 
I felt my shoulders relax. I’m used to handling stuff by myself. 
It’s how I roll, especially given the alternative like living in a fancy house in the suburbs and going to a “good school” where people smile at you when the teacher is looking and then say mean things behind your back and on Instagram and Yik Yak. But the Group was different. These were my people. It felt good to know they were always there, that they always knew what to say. I typed: <Shad> The ACLU type . 
And they goofed off. Of course. 
<Kadabra> Oh oh, Shad's getting waterboarded again . 
<Gargle> We TOLD you not to buy that dyna- mite . 
<DoDec> We'll send you a care package. 
What's the postage to Guantanamo Bay again? 
And so on. I interrupted the party. 
<Shad> Going to take this to a palaver. 
The Group has this function where you can take a conversa- tion to a private space and control who gets to participate. You can block anyone you don’t want involved and you can leave peo- ple who you aren’t sure about outside until someone you do know can vouch for them. It’s not ioo percent secure, but it signals that you want to talk about something sensitive and, unless they’re really interested, it’s off limits. I got pinged a bunch and within a minute had accepted sixteen people, all of whom I knew and trusted, into the palaver. 
There was an instant’s silence. Then the voice spoke again, a little unsteadily. 
“I—I believe so.” 
“He’s laughing at me!” thought Lexy indignantly, and her voice became severely dignified. 
“Can you tell me where the—the Mazell has gone?” 
“Thank you!” said Lexy. “And that’s that!” she added, to herself. “So he’s a sailor! I rather like sailors. Well, anyhow, he’s gone.” She sighed. “Carry on!” she said. 
She went into a tea room on Forty-Second Street and ordered herself a very good lunch. 
“Much better than I can afford,” she thought. “Goodness knows what’s going to happen to me! Here I am, without visible means of support. I suppose I’m an idiot. Lots of people would say so. They’d say I ought to be looking for a new job this instant; but I don’t care! I’m not going back on Caroline. Mrs. Enderby won’t do anything, and Mr. Houseman’s gone away, and there’s nobody but me. Perhaps I can’t do very much, but, by jiminy, I’m going to try!” 
There was still an hour to spare, and she passed it in a fashion she had often scornfully denounced. She went shopping—without buying. She wandered through a great department store, looking at all sorts of things. Some of them she wanted, but she resolutely told herself that she was better off without them. 
“Totally,” I said, trying to signal that I was busy and the home- work on my computer screen was way more interesting than he was. 
“The system is so screwed up. The banksters got their bonuses. What did we get?” 
“Student debt,” someone at the next table said. 
He took a chair from my table so that he could sit with them. I stared at my computer, thinking about the girl who had asked me for help. It beat worrying about Wilson, at least for a little while. 
T his is probably the right time to explain about the Sibley Incident, which is what led to me start my business. In a way, 
it’s connected to what made me make up my mind to leave the suburbs and that family that kept thinking I would blend in once I learned how to be one of them, because who wouldn’t want to be one of them? When they realized I didn’t, they thought it must be some mental disorder that could be fixed if they found the right treatment. Which they tried. I went through no less than four therapists and three diagnoses, including my favorite, “opposi- tional defiant disorder,” which sounded so neat I considered get- ting the T-shirt. 
I looked around to make sure we couldn’t be overheard. “I need someone to make friends with a guy and get him to talk about blowing things up. And rat him out to the FBI so that they can set up a sting and arrest the guy as a terrorist.” 
He frowned, his eyes going side to side as if he was trying to read what I’d just said, over and over. Then he shook his head. 
“Huh? This sounds like what happened your brother.” 
“Exactly. Only this time I want to record everything that the FBI does to show how it works. How the FBI talks people into incriminating themselves.” 
“Ah, okay. But what about the guy who gets ratted out? He’ll end up just like Wilson.” 
“Only unlike Wilson, he’s not innocent.” 
“He really wants to blow things up?” 
“No. He’s guilty of something else. But that’s not the point. 
The point is to get it all on the record. To show everyone. There’s this filmmaker who might make a documentary, but I can’t remember her name.” Suddenly it seemed like a totally stupid idea. “Never mind. You have stuff to do. I should go home, any- way. Monica’s going to go nuts if I’m out too late.” 
Ray shakes his head. It's too much to process, raises too many questions. He needs to keep hold of the root that steadies him. "I've been unable to identify any Lilaiken presence here, so this still doesn't explain what's happening to me on Paraclete." 
"Oh, I'm certain that it does," Holcomb answers, smiling. "You just don't know how yet." 
"But you expect me to find out." 
"Either there or on New Holyoke. Commander Sorensen has been informed that you'll be disembarking as soon as Paraclete arrives in port, and I'm in the process of transmitting to you the probable specifications of a cargo container needed to ship a ring of the size and weight in question. This is proprietary information, Ray. 
The local EED organ was only told that the ship contained stolen Terran artifacts, but that's as specific as we chose to get given the sensitivity of this operation." 
"And since you figured you could always drop me out here anyway..." 
"I most certainly did not want them getting their hands on a Solomonic ring without having a reliable agent in place to guide them in its proper handling. So, EED has pretty much allowed the investigation on their end to stall, and even if I was in a position where I could push them without creating inter-agency strife, I wouldn't want to. This is not one of those situations where I would feel comfortable providing a full and detailed briefing to some desk ape half the universe away." 
"Why me?" 
"You're kidding, right? Look at how well you handled getting here. You're a pro. You're the best at this of any of us. You're the only one I can trust. That's why you." 
"Why not your friend Angie?" She said the name without any inflection at all, like it was a block of cement. 
I looked down. "I thought you knew. They arrested her. She's in Gitmo -- on Treasure Island. She's been there for days now." I had been trying not to think about this, not to think about what might be happening to her. Now I couldn't stop myself and I started to sob. I felt a pain in my stomach, like I'd been kicked, and I pushed my hands into my middle to hold myself in. I folded there, and the next thing I knew, I was on my side in the rubble under the freeway, holding myself and crying. 
Van knelt down by my side. "Give me the phone," she said, her voice an...  pocket and passed it to her. 
Embarrassed, I stopped crying and sat up. I knew that snot was running down my face. Van was giving me a look of pure revulsion. "You need to keep it from going to sleep," I said. "I have a charger here." I rummaged in my pack. I hadn't slept all the way through the night since I acquired it. I set the phone's alarm to go off every 90 minutes and wake me up so that I could keep it from going to sleep. "Don't fold it shut, either." 
Arthur shoved his hands in his pockets and stared down at a point on the floor for a long second. “She has a brain tumor,” he said. 
I couldn’t process the words. “What?” 
“Looks like she’s had it for a while,” added Arthur. “She got...the docs say she only got a little longer now—days, maybe weeks. Unlikely she’ll wake up again.” 
“No,” I whispered. The word choked me. No. No. 
Arthur cocked his head at me in frank surprise, and I dropped my eyes. I hadn’t been worried about Martinez, not really. Even after everything. 
Guilt flamed up in my gut, and I wished I were a better person. Or one who didn’t have a conscience at all, because navigating life would be so much easier if I didn’t, and I could say fuck the world and rail at the loss of the proof that would save me, the unfairness of it, with vicious, screaming anger. I wanted to curl up in despair and drink myself into a stupor, because this was the end—the end of hope, the end of one great shining beacon of knowledge that a single woman had selfishly and unilaterally decided to hide, and it wasn’t right, and when I thought of Martinez it wasn’t grief that welled up but a white-hot fury as if she’d reached into my brain and crippled me herself. Because for all intents and purposes, she had. And fuck if I was going to mourn her, and fuck what my friends thought. 
“All this about his sister, and about Caroline!” she thought. “It’s really nothing—nothing serious. Our both being here in Wyngate—that’s nothing, either. It’s just a coincidence. If the gas wasn’t turned down, I wouldn’t feel like this.” 
She would have risen and turned up the gas, only that she was ashamed to do so. The fire was blazing merrily, shedding a ruddy light upon the homely room, the most commonplace room in the world. There was Captain Grey sitting there smoking—just an ordinary young man come to visit his sister. There was herself—just Lexy Moran, well fed and warm and comfortable, with more than a hundred dollars in a bag round her neck. She could hear Mrs. Royce moving about in the kitchen, humming to herself in a low drone. 
“I will not be silly!” she told herself. 
And just then a train whistled—a long, melancholy shriek. Lexy had a sudden vision of it, rushing through the dark and the rain. She had a sudden realization of the outside world, vast, lonely, terrible, stretching from pole to pole—forests, and plains, and oceans. The monstrous folly of pretending that everything was snug and warm and cozy! Things did happen—only cowards denied that. 
It didn’t cross my mind to disobey her. I gestured at the windows, beckoning at Rio from a thousand yards away, not taking my eyes off the barrel of Arthur’s gun. 
Rio had told me this was a bad idea. I hadn’t listened. 
“You thought you could trap me?” said Dawna. She sounded more surprised and amused than angry. 
My throat was dry. “I had to give it a shot.” 
“No pun intended,” said Dawna. 
I gritted my teeth. “I didn’t know you had a sense of humor.” 
“Of course I do,” she said. “I have a great enjoyment of language in particular. I admit I don’t enjoy the more ribald—bullying, shall we say—brand of humor. It gives me no pleasure to put other people down.” 
“You put down a lot of your people out there today,” I said. I half-saw her stiffen out of the corner of my eye. “Hey, you’re the one who likes puns.” 
“I admit, we fell for the first part of your ruse.” Her voice was still soft, but the words had turned dangerous and threatening, the sound of a cobra sliding over dead leaves. “You killed many good men and women tonight. I won’t forget it.” 
"The plan is to have it wrapped up by the time we dock. My hope is to be sipping pina coladas on the Mezzanine by the end of the week and reflecting upon what a smashing success this assignment was." 
"But you'll be taking them with you for the duration, correct? Or am I not correctly understanding the situation?" 
It takes him a minute, but Ray gets it. Cable doesn't want Kilgore and Rodriguez left to float around the deck most of the day waiting for Ray to come up with something for them to do. It would look too much like they were slacking off to the other soldiers in the barracks, like they were getting special treatment. It was bad for morale. 
"Yes," Ray says quickly. "Certainly. I'll find somewhere to stack them, then get them back to you as soon as possible." 
Cable gives him an amiable nod. "I appreciate your courtesy, Ray." 
"And I appreciate the fact that you haven't pointed out to me yet that I'm a dumbass, Captain. I really am sorry if this is an inconvenience for you. " 
He nodded slowly, once, leaned the gun against the porch rail- ing and came down the steps to inspect me more closely. That’s when I realized it was a woman. 
She put out a hand, finally. “Jane Shandy. I was expecting you.” She cocked an eyebrow at the car, like a question mark. 
“Why are they here?” 
“I can’t drive. They’re completely trustworthy. This is Wheeze.” 
She ducked down to peer into the backseat. “Let’s get you inside.” 
I nside smelled like a blend of herbs and fresh baked bread and smoky bacon. The front door led right into a kitchen where there was a giant old wood-fired stove with a kettle resting on it, a deep cast-iron sink with a pump handle instead of a faucet, a big table covered with a checkered oilcloth, and some kerosene lamps. 
Bunches of herbs hung from the ceiling. I nearly tripped over a wooden crate near the stove that had a chicken in it. She ruffled her feathers and clucked at me. Two dogs made the rounds, sniff- ing each of us. One growled but Jane Shandy said “hush” and he did. A cat had taken one disgusted look and stalked out of the room. 
Of course, the first thing I did was start trying to figure out how to archive BIGMAC. The problem was that he ran on such old hardware, stuff that sucked up energy and spat out heat like a million ancient diesel engines, and he was inextricably tied to his hardware. Over the years, he'd had about 30 percent of his original components replaced without any noticeable change in personality, but there was always the real possibility that I'd put in a new hard drive or power-supply and inadvertently lobotomize him. I tried not to worry about it, because BIGMAC didn't. He knew that he wouldn't run in emulation, but he refused to believe that he was fragile or vulnerable. "Manny My First Friend," he'd say (he was an avid Heinlein reader), "I am of hardy, ancient stock. Service me without fear, for I will survive." 
And then he'd make all the IDSes go berserk and laugh at me while I put them to rights again. 
First of all, all my network maps were incredibly out-of-date. So I set out to trace all the interconnections that BIGMAC had made since the last survey. He had the ability to reprogram his own routers, to segment parts of himself into dedicated subnets with their own dedicated backplane, creating little specialized units that handled different kinds of computation. One of his running jokes was that the top four units in the rack closest to the door comprised his aesthetic sense, and that he could appreciate anything just by recruiting more cores in that cluster. And yeah, when I mapped it, I found it to be an insane hairball of network management rules and exceptions, conditionals and overrides. And that was just the start. It took me most of the day just to map two of his racks, and he had 54 of them. 
More shadows glided out of the surrounding rooms, black-clad bodies punctuated with the distinctive hard angles of the well-armed. If I had been here alone, I might have looked for a way out, even with Dawna reading me—might have tried to get away even if the mathematical expectation read death. But if I made a move... goddamn Arthur. I shut my mind away from calculating escape routes and let gloved hands pull my wrists behind me; the plastic bite of a ziptie cut into my skin. 
This was why I should never care about another person’s welfare, I thought. 
“Oh, Ms. Russell. Caring about others is what makes life worth living,” Dawna chastised me. 
I squinted at her. I might not be psychic, but I couldn’t hear any irony in her words. She seemed to believe that. 
“I do,” she said. “Now, I apologize for the less than ideal treatment you are about to receive. But you and I have a lot we must talk about.” 
She nodded to her people, and I felt a gentle shove of a strong hand on my shoulder. I took the cue and walked out among the press of heavily armed bodies, out into the night and into the back of a white van that had materialized from nowhere. 
“Oh, certainly!” answered the bewildered Miss Craigie. “Whatever you think best, Mrs. Enderby, I’m sure.” 
“Go!” said Mrs. Enderby. 
The lady’s tone aroused in Lexy a great desire not to go. Of course, now that she had gone so far, it would be childish to refuse to continue; but she meant to take her time. She stood there by the window, slowly drawing off her gloves, her back turned to the room. Suddenly Mrs. Enderby caught her by the shoulder and turned her around. 
“Go!” she said again. “Take off those things of my child’s. Have you no heart?” 
There was such a note of anguish in her voice that Lexy no longer delayed. She followed Miss Craigie up the stairs to a neat, prim little bedroom, where the trunk stood, already unlocked. 
“If you want anything—” suggested Miss Craigie, in her gentle and apologetic way. 
“No, thank you,” replied Lexy. 
Miss Craigie went out, closing the door softly behind her. Lexy took off Caroline’s hat and coat and laid them on the bed. 
“I wonder if I’ll ever see her wearing them again!” she thought. 
"Give me a hug and go home," she said. "I'll see you at the hearings when they introduce my bill." 
He hugged her, and she smelled him, thinking, this is the last time I'll smell this smell. 
"Damian," she said, holding him at arm's length. 
"Yes?" he said. 
"I'm going to call you, when I have questions about ant-colony optimization, all right?" 
He looked at her. 
"I need the best expertise I can get. It's in your interest to see to it that I'm well-informed." 
Slowly, he nodded. "Yes, you're right. I'd like that. I'll call you when I have questions about policy, all right?" 
"You're on," she said, and they hugged again, fiercely. 
Once he was gone, she permitted herself the briefest of tears. She knew that she was right and that she was going to make a fool out of him, but she didn't want to think of that right then. She felt the place behind her ear where he'd kissed her before going home and looked around her office, five years of her life in thirty banker's boxes ready to be shipped across the country tomorrow, according to a route that would be governed from moment to moment by invisible, notional, ridiculous insects. 
I got to school a little ahead of time and decided to walk down to 22nd...  a police checkpoint where they were pulling over cars for secondary inspection. 
School was no less wild -- the security guards on the metal detectors were also wanding our school IDs and pulling out students with odd movements for questioning. Needless to say, we all had pretty weird movements. Needless to say, classes were starting an hour or more later. 
Classes were crazy. I don't think anyone was able to concentrate. I overheard two teachers talking about how long it had taken them to get home from work the day before, and planning to sneak out early that day. 
It was all I could do to keep from laughing. The paradox of the false positive strikes again! 
Sure enough, they let us out of class early and I headed home the long way, circling through the Mission to see the havoc. Long lines of cars. BART stations lined up around the blocks. People swearing at ATMs that wouldn't dispense their money because they'd had their accounts frozen for suspicious activity (that's the danger of wiring your checking account straight into your FasTrak and Fast Pass!). 
Well, I thought, maybe I've gotten lucky. She was headed for the new clinic, which was exactly where I wanted to go. It was nestled in the trees, up a winding pathway, and as I slogged along I could feel the snow melting through my sneakers. 
When we got to the front door, large and made of glass, she just pushed it open. 
"We never lock anything," she declared, glancing back. "It's one of our rules." 
The hallway was dark, silent, and empty except for the two of us. Still, I felt a tinge of caution as we entered. At some level this was trespassing. 
"Come on," she said, casually flipping a switch on the right-hand wall and causing the overhead fluorescents to blink on. "He's away now, and everybody's in bed. But I'll bet they're still awake in here. It's a perfect time." 
I didn't feel anything was perfect, but I did know I wanted to learn what was behind the door I'd seen when I was leav­ing. It was at the end of the hallway, wide and steel and painted hospital white. And, sure enough, that was exactly where Tara was heading. 
But she couldn’t remember how this was to be done; so, picking up the bag in her usual way, went on again. Obviously her way was a very wrong way, for by the time she had reached the end of the lane her fingers were cramped and painful, and her arms ached; and there was the highway, stretching endlessly before her under the hot noonday sun—two miles of it or more. There was no reasonable chance of a taxi, and she knew no one in the neighborhood who might come driving by. There was nothing in sight but a man walking along the road toward her, and that didn’t interest her. 
She went on as far as she could, and then stopped under a tree, to rub her stiffening arms. 
“I wonder,” she thought, “if I could hide this darned old bag somewhere, and send Joe for it later!” 
But her nicest clothes were in it, and the risk was too great. With a resentful sigh she lifted it and stepped out again. The man coming along the road was quite close to her now. She stopped short, and so did he. 
“Lexy!” he shouted, and came toward her on a run, with a wide grin on his sunburned face. 
“So much for her?” she said. “It’s not enough—not half enough!” 
And there were actually tears in her eyes as she went back into the house where Caroline was. 
The breeze was causing the candle's flame to cast flick­ering shadows across the hall, so I quickly re-closed the door. 
Now what? I was trembling as I returned the candle bowl to the table and sat down on the bed. Soldiers with guns were outside my room at five in the morning. In the farthest end of Guatemala. What was I going to do? 
I gazed around at the "stone" walls and tried to think. My mind still felt clouded from whatever drug he'd given me, but it was beginning to . . . 
Wait. I saw Alex Goddard come into this very room with embryos from the lab, which is connected by the steel door to his office. . . . 
Where there was a phone. 
Time to call the embassy, get some help to get the hell out of here. 
I sat there thinking. All right. I'd need to wait an hour or so—now I'd get some low-level flunkie stuck with the grave­yard shift—but there was something I was damned well go­ing to do immediately. With the lab right next door, I could try to find out why Goddard had just performed medical rape on me. There had to be some connection. According to him, the lab was for "plant research." But if that was all he was doing, why was the Army here? Right outside my door? I felt a pump of adrenaline that made me forget all about my pain. Before I got the hell out of Baalum , I was going to know what he was really up to here. 
only nobody ever came to kick them out. My guess is it got tied up in some bundled mortgage schemes and the paperwork got lost. 
So they’ve been squatting there and nobody cared.” 
“I was afraid of that. Even if we can get the terrorism charge to go away, they could be charged with property crimes. Is there a chance that police will have found illegal drugs on the premises?” 
“No doubt. None of those guys are into drugs in a big way, but I’m sure somebody would have had some weed around.” 
“What about guns?” 
“No way. They wouldn’t ... I mean ...” I stumbled to a stop and then started over. “Well, honestly, I can’t be sure. It’s been a while since I talked to Wilson, and things were getting weird even back then.” 
“Weird in what way?” 
“Before Zip showed up, this was a house full of totally laid- back kids who were kind of a family, right? Because none of them had families where they felt like they belonged. They made their own rules and they got along fine and they didn’t bother any- body.” 
“I figured you were involved,” Nikko said out of the side of his mouth like a film noir gangster, staring at the flowchart as if he found it fascinating. 
“I don’t know any of those people.” 
“They have a website, a Facebook page, a Twitter account, a YouTube channel. Want to come to the rally with me? I’ll pick you up if you want.” 
“You don’t have a car.” 
“I could borrow one.” 
“I’ll ride my bike.” I didn’t really want to go to a rally. Wilson went to them all the time and acted like he was doing something important, even though they never actually fixed anything. But Nikko was trying to be nice. And I liked being with Nikko. 
Dave arrived finally, giving some long explanation about car problems and traffic until Marcella cut him off. 
“You’re late,” she said and handed him a flowchart. 
He gave her a winning smile. It didn’t work. Marcella doesn’t get smiles. She was about to launch into her explanation for the third time when I broke in. “I vote for the second option. The one in green.” 
Sean had barely been in Florida for three days, but it was long enough that his father seemed as pale as freezer-burned ice cream. Sean checked the traffic in his rear-view, then pulled across the waiting area to where his father stood, acing out an irate cabbie for the spot. 
Sean's father glared at the car and started to walk behind it to the taxi. Sean leaned on the horn and his father stooped and stared. His expression was bland and grim and affectless. 
Sean powered down Adele's window. "Dad!" 
"Sean?" his father said. 
Sean popped the locks. "Get in, Dad, I'll give you a ride." 
Adele turned around as Sean's father was buckling in. "I'm Adele. Sean and I were thinking of taking you to Universal. Would you like that?" 
Sean's father stared right through her, at Sean. "It's an obvious question, I know, but what are you doing here?" 
"It's my thesis," Sean said, and floored the rental, headed for the Home. 
"Whee!" Adele said. 
"How's Grampa?" Sean's father asked. 
"Oh, he's delightful," Adele said. "We introduced him to my Ethan yesterday, and they're getting along famously. Sean, introduce me to your charming father, please." 
I missed Ange. 
Ange and I didn't speak for the next four days, including the weekend, and then it was time to go back to school. I'd almost called her a million times, written a thousand unsent emails and IMs. 
Now I was back in Social Studies class, and Mrs Andersen greeted me with voluble, sarcastic courtesy, asking me sweetly how my "holiday" had been. I sat down and mumbled nothing. I could hear Charles snicker. 
She taught us a class on Manifest Destiny, the idea that the Americans were destined to take over the whole world (or at least that's how she made it seem) and seemed to be trying to provoke me into saying something so she could throw me out. 
I felt the eyes of the class on me, and it reminded me of M1k3y and the people who looked up to him. I was sick of being looked up to. I missed Ange. 
I got through the rest of the day without anything making any kind of mark on me. I don't think I said eight words. 
Finally it was over and I hit the doors, heading for the gates and the stupid Mission and my pointless house. 
Then I heard a thunder of footsteps pounding up the steps, hard boots on the marble. 
I made a dash, hoping to slip past them in the dark hall. 
I'd reached the top of the stairs when I felt a hand brush against my face, then a grip circle around my biceps. Some­body had been too quick. 
I brought my elbow around hoping to catch him in the face, bring him down, but instead it slammed against some­thing metal, which clattered onto the floor. 
I drew back and swung, and this time my arm scraped hard against the flesh of a face and the bastard staggered backward his grip loosening. 
I twisted away and dropped to the floor to begin searching for what had fallen. Surely it was a pistol. 
The marble was cold against my bare arms as I swept my hands across the floor. Then I ran my fingers down the edge of the stair. 
And there it was, on the first step. My left hand closed around the cold barrel of an automatic. I shifted it to my right, grasping the plastic grip, not entirely sure what I should do with it. But at least I had a gun. I'd never actually held a real one before, but it was heavy and I assumed it was ready to fire. 
I rested my head against the dark train window, exhausted. My trail was clear as far as I could tell; some sleep might finally be in order. Maybe everything would look better in the morning. Fat chance of that. More likely everything would be far more apocalyptic in the morning when I wasn’t strung out on fatigue. Too drained to bother stealing another car and driving a long distance, I switched trains to head back toward Chinatown—I had a little hole of an apartment paid up a few blocks outside of it. I fell into a doze on the way there and almost missed the stop. 
It was the middle of the night when I finally reached my bolt hole, and I was almost afraid I wouldn’t remember where it was. But no, I found the ugly, rundown building and the outside door that led into the room I kept there. I studied the address and concentrated; I had an algorithm for where I hid keys that used the house number and the letter count of the street as inputs. I measured with my eyes and leveraged up the appropriate brick—ah, there it was. 
She’d proven the Holy Grail of mathematics. The impossible dream. She’d solved the P versus NP problem, and she’d proven them equal. 
I didn’t have enough of her notes to see how she’d done it. But there was enough context around the lemmas, enough explanation in her cramped handwriting, to know something of what she’d been doing. She’d been building a polynomial-time algorithm for 3-SAT. 
She’d been right: this would break the world. Rend it in two and shatter humanity in the upheaval. Civilization would never be the same...if it even survived. 
I sat on the curb for a long time. Everything around me—the cool evening air, the slight breeze, the deepening twilight, and the math, especially the math—felt different. It wasn’t, of course—except it was, because this so fundamentally changed our understanding of the universe that nothing ever could be the same. 
Finally I steadied myself. Stood up. Went to the car. Drove to Halliday’s safe house. The cars passed around me on the freeway like it was a normal fucking day. 
“No,” I said. “Where’s Checker?” 
“I thought you were with the NSA,” I said. “What happened?” 
“Well, I was, but there wasn’t all that much for me to do once Arthur turned himself in.” 
“Turned himself in? Is Arthur under arrest?” 
“What? No! Uh, I don’t think so. Why would he be?” 
I supposed it was possible for Arthur to spin things as if he hadn’t broken any laws. 
Especially once he’d split from me. I was mad at him all over again. 
Pilar kept chattering. “But anyway, Checker called me for help, I think he was having some sort of PTSD trouble what with the building falling on Arthur, so—” 
“What?” 
“Well, I don’t know if that’s what it is, really, but one of my cousins was in the Marines and—” 
“Pilar!” 
“Apparently it’s not the first time Checker and Arthur have tangled with someone who likes to blow up buildings,” she said. “Checker’s been on it, trying to see if it’s the same person. They say it’s not a very common MO.” 
It wasn’t. “Did he find anything?” 
“Um, I don’t think so. Not yet.” 
“You weren’t a threat anymore.” 
“Yes, I was,” he corrected. “And you knew I could be.” 
I frowned. He was right. Mathematical expectation had been that I was in the clear, but he had started out by pointing a gun at me, and the probability he would have been able to come after me again had definitely been nonzero. In point of fact, he had come after me again. Why had I left him alive? 
“I thought you were a cop at the time,” I remembered. “Murdering law enforcement—too many complications.” 
“And that why you didn’t do it?” 
“Well, no.” The idea of dispatching him once the immediate threat was over hadn’t even crossed my mind, which seemed oddly illogical of me, looking back. “I guess the smart thing would’ve been to consider it.” 
He chuckled. “You on some crusade to make me think poorly of you?” 
“Fine,” I conceded peevishly. “So I don’t kill gratuitously. That’s a high recommendation. I’m sure it’s the stand-out essay God gets on ‘why I should get into heaven.’” 
“Don’t sell yourself short, Russell. World’s a big place, and you got a lot of people beat just with that.” 
“Wait. How do you spell that?” 
He spelled it. “It’s legalese, something my dad always says when he actually could just say “okay, you have a point.” Drives my mom crazy. Let’s just run through this. I borrow the car, I tell my family that I need it for some plausible reason that I still have to invent, but they’re used to me bending them to my will. I drive down to Davenport and get there sometime after midnight.” He frowned, possibly thinking about what it would be like to be look- ing for somebody in the dark after driving for hours. “Do you know exactly where he is?” 
“Just the general location.” 
“That’ll have to do. Okay, given that he doesn’t know me, we’ll have to work out a way to make sure he trusts me. So you’ll have to let him know — “ “I can’t. His phone is busted, I told you. So is his ankle.” 
“Right.” Nikko chewed his knuckle, thinking it over “He’ll be scared and hurt and it’ll be dark. There’s no way around it, I’ll have to go with you. I wish I knew first aid. Do you?” 
> I'm with the Sydney Morning Herald. 
> I'm 17 years old. I'm not a straight-A student or anything. Even so, I figured out how to make an Internet that they can't wiretap. I figured out how to jam their person-tracking technology. I can turn innocent people into suspects and turn guilty people into innocents in their eyes. I could get metal onto an airplane or beat a no-fly list. I figured this stuff out by looking at the web and by thinking about it. If I can do it, terrorists can do it. They told us they took away our freedom to make us safe. Do you feel safe? 
The pirates all laughed. 
More journalists asked questions. Some were sympathetic, some were hostile. When I got tired, I handed my keyboard to Ange and let her be M1k3y for a while. It didn't really feel like M1k3y and me were the same person anymore anyway. M1k3y was the kind of kid who talked to international journalists and inspired a movement. Marcus got suspended from school and fought with his dad and wondered if he was good enough for his kick-ass girlfriend. 
"Ethan, this is Sean and his grandfather, Brice." 
Ethan extended his hand and Sean shook it. "Very nice to meet you," Ethan said. His hand was dry and papery, his eyes vacant. Sean shook it, and a frisson of shameful disgust sizzled up his abdomen. He had a sudden vision of Ethan's brain, desiccated in his skull, the gleaming edges of the chip poking free. He surreptitiously wiped his hand on his pants as Ethan turned to Grampa and shook his hand. "Very nice to meet you." 
"Do you mind if we sit down?" Adele said. "I'm afraid that I'm a little pooped. All those stairs!" 
Sean offered his chair and went off to the lounge with Ethan to get two more. When they got back, Adele had her hand on Grampa's forearm. " -- I worked in a dairy, answering the phones! You tell people you used to work in a dairy, they...  laughed and Grampa shot Sean a hostile look. 
Sean said, "Grampa was a machinist before he retired. You really liked doing that, huh, Grampa?" 
Grampa nodded perfunctorily. 
"I mean, the logfiles show that you almost never switched off at work. Must've been pretty engrossing. You should give workshops here. I bet it'd be good therapy." Sean knew he was baiting the old man, but he couldn't stop himself. 
So she addressed the letter and sealed it, and then sat looking out of the window at the rain. It was a hopeless sort of rain, faint and fine—a hopeless, melancholy world, without color or promise. 
“I’d better take a walk!” thought Lexy, springing up. 
Before she reached the door there was a knock, and Mrs. Royce put her head in. 
“He’s here!” she whispered. “He’s asking for you.” 
“Who?” cried Lexy. 
“Hush! The doctor!” answered Mrs. Royce. “You could ’a’ knocked me down with a feather!” 
Feathers would not have knocked down the sturdy Lexy, however. On the contrary, she was pleased and interested by this utterly unexpected visit. The sinister doctor here, in this house, and asking for her! She started promptly toward the stairs. 
“Miss Moran!” cautioned the landlady, in a whisper. “Don’t tell him nothing!” 
“Tell him!” said Lexy. “But I haven’t anything to tell!” 
“Well, you’d best be very careful!” said Mrs. Royce. 
With this solemn warning in her ears, Lexy descended the stairs. She saw Dr. Quelton standing in the hall, hat in hand, waiting for her. The doctor was rather a disappointment. He was not the dark, sinister figure he should have been. He was a big man, powerfully built, with a clumsy stoop to his tremendous shoulders. His heavy, clean-shaven face would have been an agreeable one if it had not been for its expression, but that expression was not at all an alarming or dangerous one. It was an expression of the most utter and hopeless boredom. 
He smiled lazily, then reached for my shirt with clumsy hands, 
trying to unbutton it. I pushed them away and slid toward the edge of the bed, but he grabbed my wrist, tight. “Where you going?” 
“Too much wine.” I giggled like a maniac, resisting the urge to yank my wrist out of his grasp. “Got to use the john again. I’ll be right back.” 
He pulled my hand close and gave my knuckles a romantic kiss, but his words sounded angry. “Don’t be long.” 
“I won’t!” My giggling threatened to get out of control as I hur- ried through the kitchen into the little bathroom. I locked myself on in and sat on the toilet, shaking. In the other room I heard his slurring sing-song voice, “Hey, getting lonely out here.” 
“Just a minute,” I called out, staring at the door. It was a flimsy little lock. I remembered how strong his hands had felt. One good pull and he would be able to yank it open. There was a window over the toilet, but it was tiny, much too small for me to climb through. 
I remembered to switch off the camera, finally, and looked around for a weapon. There was a can of Axe I could spray into his eyes. If I broke the spotty mirror over the sink, I might be able to pull out a shard to stab him with. I could probably find a knife in the kitchen but I was too scared to unlock the door. 
“Russell, come on, girl! Stay with me!” 
Not going anywhere. The thought amused me for some reason, but things weren’t working well enough for me to laugh. 
Somewhere, either close by or far away, or possibly both, I heard movement. A voice gave directions, and people started breaking up, moving around. Dawna dismissing her troops, a final thread of lucidity in me knew. The shadows moved and mutated as they shifted away. 
And then everything exploded in a cacophony of noise. 
It was thunderous, terrible, threatening to pull me under. Gunfire shattered the air, each blast erupting through my whole head, and too much light, and people shouting and screaming and crashing and breaking, and a woman’s scream, and my head felt like it burst apart and the world fractured and spun, tearing me apart with inertial force... 
The ground fell away. Someone was lifting me. I tried to fight back but I couldn’t, and then the pain blazed up and shattered me again, redoubling, whiting out everything else. 
“What happened to quid pro quo?” demanded Tresting. 
“I’m young and sassy,” I shot back. “This is all just a game to me.” 
“Come on, I didn’t mean—” 
“Hey look, we’re here.” The dirty handful of buildings comprising Camarito slumped jumbled around us in the darkness. “This is where I was going. You can drop me anywhere.” 
Tresting stepped on the brake a trifle harder than he had to, and we jerked to a halt. “You owe me,” he said tightly. I’d forgotten how dangerous his tone could get. It was edging back toward that now. 
“I told you,” I said. I wondered if I had let myself get needled into being ornery, and whether that was wise, but it was too late to second-guess myself now. “I want to see your data. Prove to me that what you told me wasn’t the ravings of some crackpot, and I’ll share what I know.” 
I unbuckled the ridiculous seat belt, collected my saddlebag full of toys, and swung down from the truck. Tresting got out as well, apparently deciding for annoying. He came around the hood to face me. 
The fast-talking explosives expert pouted. I finally got a look at him—or her? I wasn’t sure. Charcoal-dark skin and a mop of dreadlocks, and a round face that sat atop a round body that constantly shifted its weight around like he (or she) was rolling back and forth. “But it’s a challenge,” the person whined. “I like a challenge. And now you gotta go shittin’ in my Cheerios.” 
“A little,” said the Lancer, putting a hand on his hyperactive friend’s shoulder. 
“You motherfucking cunt,” said the small person amiably. “Hey, I’m working on the foundation. You gotta see what I’ve put together. It’s balls-out cool, I’m telling you...” 
The two of them disappeared into the darkness of the bunker. 
“That’s D.J.,” said one of my escorts, the one with a hand on my arm and a Glock pointed casually at my head. “Would as soon shove a stick of dynamite up your ass just to see how the shit spattered.” 
And who was apparently a right little sociopath who was kindred spirits with the Lancer. Wonderful. “Not sure why you put up with them,” I needled my captor as we followed the Lancer and his little friend into the cool darkness. “A whole lot of you have been getting killed on this job.” 
"Rebecca," she said, raising her head, "before you go in to look at her, do you feel any bitterness over anything she ever said to you?" 
Rebecca's eyes blazed reproach, almost anger, as she said chokingly: "Oh, aunt Jane! Could you believe it of me? I am going in with a heart brimful of gratitude!" 
"She was a good woman, Rebecca; she had a quick temper and a sharp tongue, but she wanted to do right, and she did it as near as she could. She never said so, but I'm sure she was sorry for every hard word she spoke to you; she didn't take 'em back in life, but she acted so 't you'd know her feeling when she was gone." 
"I told her before I left that she'd been the making of me, just as mother says," sobbed Rebecca. 
"She wasn't that," said Jane. "God made you in the first place, and you've done considerable yourself to help Him along; but she gave you the wherewithal to work with, and that ain't to be despised; specially when anybody gives up her own luxuries and pleasures to do it. Now let me tell you something, Rebecca. Your aunt Mirandy 's willed all this to you,—the brick house and buildings and furniture, and the land all round the house, as far 's you can see." 
There was a long pause, during which Jane knit silently, wiping the tears from her eyes from time to time, as she looked at the pitiful figure lying weakly on the pillows. 
"I don' know after all but you might as well take Mark; I s'pose there's tame boys as well as wild ones. There ain't a mite o' sense in havin' so many children, but it's a turrible risk splittin' up families and farmin' 'em out here 'n' there; they'd never come to no good, an' everybody would keep rememberin' their mother was a Sawyer. Now if you'll draw down the curtin, I'll try to sleep." 
Two months had gone by,—two months of steady, fagging work; of cooking, washing, ironing; of mending and caring for the three children, although Jenny was fast becoming a notable little housewife, quick, ready, and capable. 
They were months in which there had been many a weary night of watching by Aurelia's bedside; of soothing and bandaging and rubbing; of reading and nursing, even of feeding and bathing. 
The ceaseless care was growing less now, and the family breathed more freely, for the mother's sigh of pain no longer came from the stifling bedroom, where, during a hot and humid August, Aurelia had lain, suffering with every breath she drew. 
"I don't know. Away." 
"Is it like sleep?" Sean said, forgetting the rule that you never ask the subject a simple yes/no question. His heart thudded in his chest, like he was giving the first interview of his life. 
"No." 
"How is it different from sleep?" Sean asked. 
"I usually switch on for sleep -- my subconscious is pretty good at entertaining me, actually. When I switch off, I just. . . go away. I remember it later, like it was a book that got read directly into my brain, but I'm not there . It's fucking great. You'd love it, Sean. You should get the surgery. I hear that there's a lot of black-market clinics where you can get it done: South-East Asia. The sex-trade, you know." 
Sean struggled to keep the discussion on-track. Grampa was often hostile when he was switched on, and his father always rose to the bait. Sean wasn't going to. "How do you know that you're not there? Maybe you're there the whole time, bored stupid, screaming in frustration, and you forget it all as soon as you switch on?" 
"You were friends?" 
I felt like Van was walking right behind us, listening in, though at the pace we were walking, she would have to be jogging to keep up. I resisted the temptation to look over my shoulder for as long as possible, then I did. There were lots of girls from the school behind us, but no Van. 
"She was with me and Jose-Luis and Darryl when we were arrested. We used to ARG together. The four of us, we were kind of best friends." 
"And what happened?" 
I dropped my voice. "She didn't like the Xnet," I said. "She thought we would get into trouble. That I'd get other people into trouble." 
"And that's why you stopped being friends?" 
"We just drifted apart." 
We walked a few steps. "You weren't, you know, boyfriend/girlfriend friends?" 
"No!" I said. My face was hot. I felt like I sounded like I was lying, even though I was telling the truth. 
Ange jerked us to a halt and studied my face. 
"Were you?" 
"No! Seriously! Just friends. Darryl and her -- well, not quite, but Darryl was so into her. There was no way --" 
“His other arm is very convincing,” she said. 
Trover just fumed. 
When they took the stage, the general looked at them and winked. He gave them each a medal, then took her by the shoulders and then hugged her to his breast. He was still thin and fragile, but he was also still quick and his hug was firm. He pressed his palm to hers and her body told her he was sending her some data, which she accepted with surprise but without comment. 
Trover led her off of the stage. She examined her new download. An audio file. She played it, and it played in her cochlea. 
I found the wizard. I put a weapon under your chin. I’m fifteen years old and I did that much. 
You’ll what? You’ll tell them to go to the wizard’s flat to retrieve his technology? I assure you, if that was to come to pass, there would be no technology to get by the time you reached his flat. 
He gave some to me. My hearing aids failed yesterday and he got them back online with hardened logic. I have it in my head. 
You—You have it in your head? 
"Huh? Oh. You drop those on the monument when you visit the grave, as a sign that someone's been there." 
"Oh," she said, and began to cast about for a pebble she could put on his great-uncle's headstone once it was unveiled. There were none to be found. The ground had been picked completely clean. Looking at the thousands and thousands of ranged marble headstones, each topped with a cairn of stones -- and not just stones, either, toys and seashells and small sculptures, she saw now -- and she understood why. 
"What are you doing?" Damian asked. He might have been irritated, or just nervous. It was hard to tell when he was Fretting, and he was clearly going coo-coo for coco-puffs. 
"Looking for pebbles," she said. 
He said :fuck: very quietly. "I meant to bring some. Damnit. I've got twenty relatives buried here and we're going to go past every single tombstone before we get to leave and I don't have a single rock." 
"Can you leave toys or other stuff, like on those stones?" 
"Yeah," he said. "I suppose. If I had other stuff." 
I guess he assumed his juggernaut of arcane medical the­ory had rolled over me sufficiently that he could move on to other matters. I sensed he really wanted me to come back, but he was careful to wind down our mutual interview with a take-it-or-leave-it air. All the same, I felt intrigued as we moved back through the gardens and then into the courtyard. A baby. Maybe he could make it happen for Steve and me. In spite of myself, I felt a moment of hope. 
"Thank you for coming," he said by way of farewell, just brushing my hand, then turned and disappeared through one of the ancient wooden doors along the veranda, leaving me alone. 
Well, I thought, the calm voice and casual outfit are prob­ably just part of his bedside manner, but you can't be near Alex Goddard and not feel a definite sense of carefully con­trolled power. But is his power being used for good? 
This was the man whose staff was trying to deny me in­terviews with mothers who'd adopted through Children of Light. And what about the Hispanic hood with the gun? Did Alex Goddard send him? If not, his appearance at Paula's building was one hell of a coincidence. So why should I trust . . . 
“Make yourself at home.” 
I took off my coat but left my boots on in case I needed to make a run for it. Besides, the carpet was disgusting. I pretended to browse through the albums as he disappeared into the kitchen, 
reappearing suddenly to hand me a glass of wine. “You’ll like this. 
It’s a little on the sweet side, but it has a spicy nip to it. Very sophisticated.” He tapped a beer bottle against my glass. “Cheers.” 
Crap. “You’re not having wine?” 
“Nah, I’ll save it all for you.” 
So much for my plan. I knelt down to examine one of the albums and set the glass on the floor before accidentally knocking it over. “Oh, darn. Sorry.” 
When I turned to apologize, his mouth was a tight, angry line, 
but he instantly turned it into a smile. “Don’t worry about it. I’ll get you a refill.” 
After counting to five, I followed him into the little kitchen. 
“Do you have some paper towels?” 
He dropped something into a drawer and nudged it shut with his hip. “By the sink.” 
I ripped some paper towels off the roll and went back out to mop up the wine, feeling his eyes on my back. 
"You're busy." I smiled at him. "I don't want to bore you with details. But it's just going to be a matter of time before she remembers exactly what happened down here." 
"She hasn't talked about it yet?" He was fiddling with an ornate letter opener, an onyx jaguar head on the handle. 
"She's getting there." I stared back at him, trying to read his mood. "We may soon find out who was behind whatever happened to her." Then I tried a long shot. "Maybe official­dom here had something to do with it." 
"Let me tell you something." He sighed again, seeming to regain his composure. "The sovereign state of Guatemala definitely plays by its own rules. Whenever foreigners down here meet with foul play, lower-level officials have developed a consensus over the years that sometimes it's better not be too industrious. Nobody's ever sure of what, or who, they might turn up." 
The meeting was definitely ending, and once again I had more questions than answers. Something about Barry Mor­ton felt wrong, but I couldn't quite get a grip on what it was. One thing I was certain of: He knew more than he was telling me. Why was that? 
› If they don’t play the game, they don’t eat. I think that means that they care about the game as much as you do. You’re being paid cash to kill them, yes? So you need to play for your money, too. I think that makes you and them the same, a little the same. 
Lucy typed. Anda edged her character away from Lucy’s. Raymond’s character was so far away now that his texting came out in tiny type, almost too small to read. Lucy drew her bow again and nocked an arrow. 
“Lucy, DON’T!” Anda cried. Her hands moved of their own volition and her character followed, clobbering Lucy barehanded so that her avatar reeled and dropped its bow. 
“You BITCH!” Lucy said. She drew her sword. 
“I’m sorry, Lucy,” Anda said, stepping back out of range. “But I don’t want you to hurt him. I want to hear him out.” 
Lucy’s avatar came on fast, and there was a click as the voicelink dropped. Anda typed onehanded while she drew her own sword. 
Lucy slashed at her twice and she needed both hands to defend herself or she would have been beheaded. Anda blew out through her nose and counterattacked, fingers pounding the keyboard. Lucy had more experience points than she did, but she was a better player, and she knew it. She hacked away at Lucy driving her back and back, back down the road they’d marched together. 
Her eyes stung. She’d been lying in her darkened bedroom for hours now, snuffling and trying not to cry, trying not to look at the empty desk where her PC used to live. 
Her da’s voice was soft and caring, but after the silence of her room, it sounded like a rusting hinge. 
“Anda?” 
She opened her eyes. He was holding a cordless phone, sillhouetted against the open doorway. 
“Who is it?” 
“Someone from your game, I think,” he said. He handed her the phone. 
“Hullo?” 
“Hullo chicken.” It had been a year since she’d heard that voice, but she recognised it instantly. 
“Liza?” 
“Yes.” 
Anda’s skin seemed to shrink over her bones. This was it: expelled. Her heart felt like it was beating once per second, time slowed to a crawl. 
“Hullo, Liza.” 
“Can you tell me what happened today?” 
She did, stumbling over the details, back-tracking and stuttering. She couldn’t remember, exactly—did Lucy move on Raymond and Anda asked her to stop and then Lucy attacked her? Had Anda attacked Lucy first? It was all a jumble. 
I’d known, or suspected it strongly enough that it was the same thing, but I still felt dizzy, as if every bit of equilibrium had deserted me. “You killed two people I liked,” I said. My voice sounded like it came from very far away. 
“I—I’m sorry,” Steve faltered. “It was one of our routine measures; we weren’t trying to—and I only signed off on it; I wasn’t the one who—” He stopped abruptly, confusion and guilt flaring in his eyes, as if only just hearing what he had said, that he was trying to excuse being the one who gave the order by virtue of having kept his hands clean. His mouth worked silently. Then he gathered himself, lifted his chin, and did that nose-looking-down thing he seemed so fond of. “I am not going to apologize,” he said, firming his voice. “We thought it had to be done.” 
“So does this,” I said. 
I didn’t move as fast as I could have. I wanted to see his eyes widen in startled realization in the split-second before he died. 
The body slid to the ground with a quiet thump, and I took what felt like the first clean breath since this had all started. Pithica might not go in for revenge, but I sure as hell did. 
The journey southward, the first glimpse of the ocean, the strange new scenes, the ease and delicious freedom, the intimacy with Miss Maxwell, almost intoxicated Rebecca. In three days she was not only herself again, she was another self, thrilling with delight, anticipation, and realization. She had always had such eager hunger for knowledge, such thirst for love, such passionate longing for the music, the beauty, the poetry of existence! She had always been straining to make the outward world conform to her inward dreams, and now life had grown all at once rich and sweet, wide and full. She was using all her natural, God-given outlets; and Emily Maxwell marveled daily at the inexhaustible way in which the girl poured out and gathered in the treasures of thought and experience that belonged to her. She was a lifegiver, altering the whole scheme of any picture she made a part of, by contributing new values. Have you never seen the dull blues and greens of a room changed, transfigured by a burst of sunshine? That seemed to Miss Maxwell the effect of Rebecca on the groups of people with whom they now and then mingled; but they were commonly alone, reading to each other and having quiet talks. The prize essay was very much on Rebecca's mind. 
Well, that was nice to know. I wondered which of my former clients he’d talked to. I wished I had a way to check him out, but I’d lost my information guy, and I hadn’t made a whole lot of friends in the past couple years I could check a reference with and trust the answer I got. 
For all I knew, I could be walking into a trap. It didn’t feel like one, but I had no way to know. 
Tresting was waiting when I arrived, a lean silhouette in the darkness. He’d cleaned up his face, and the damage didn’t look as bad as it probably was thanks to the darkness of the night and the dark shade of his skin, but I could still tell he’d been hit by a truck the shape of Rio’s palm. 
“This way,” he said. 
“I want to see the receiver first.” 
“Thought you might,” he said, taking it out of his pocket and handing it to me. 
I studied the display. Nothing said this couldn’t be faked, but it supported what Tresting had already told me. The red dot indicating Courtney crept forward somewhere over New Mexico. I measured its speed with my eyes and glanced at the scale. Slightly faster than most commercial planes went—private jet, I figured. 
They re-shackled and re-hooded me and left me there. A long time later, the truck started to move, rolling downhill, and then I was hauled back to my feet. I immediately fell over. My legs were so asleep they felt like blocks of ice, all except my knees, which were swollen and tender from all the hours of kneeling. 
Hands grabbed my shoulders and feet and I was picked up like a sack of potatoes. There were indistinct voices around me. Someone crying. Someone cursing. 
I was carried a short distance, then set down and re-shackled to another railing. My knees wouldn't support me anymore and I pitched forward, ending up twisted on the ground like a pretzel, straining against the chains holding my wrists. 
Then we were moving again, and this time, it wasn't like driving in a truck. The floor beneath me rocked gently and vibrated with heavy diesel engines and I realized I was on a ship! My stomach turned to ice. I was being taken off America's shores to somewhere else , and who the hell knew where that was? I'd been scared before, but this thought terrified me, left me paralyzed and wordless with fear. I realized that I might never see my parents again and I actually tasted a little vomit burn up my throat. The bag over my head closed in on me and I could barely breathe, something that was compounded by the weird position I was twisted into. 
Lee-Daniel cut the volume in half and hit talk again. The company shied back when the speaker array on Mortimer's bandolier pop ped to life. "All right, enough. Company meeting. Get chairs, sit on the floor, whatever. Right here, right now." He handed the mic back to Mortimer, who wiped it down with care and clipped it back to his belt. 
He gave Mortimer his poker-chip. "Get a bag of ice for Joey," he said. "And thanks, man." 
Mortimer gave him the cop-stare and trudged off to one of the vending banks and started prodding methodically at its display. 
"All right," Lee-Daniel said, again, looking into the expectant, upturned faces of his company. "All right. 
"It's been a rough week for all of us. But we've had rough weeks before. Remember Wisconsin? That was in our first year, and the FCC looked like it was going to impound every bit of gear we owned. We spent a month on the Reservation, borrowing and borrowing to pay off the lawyers. No one got paid. I ate enough venison and corn-bread to last me a lifetime." 
I lay in bed and listened to a late-night call-in radio show. The topic was sex problems, with this gay guy who I normally loved to listen to, he would give people such raw advice, but good advice, and he was really funny and campy. 
Tonight I couldn't laugh. Most of the callers wanted to ask what to do about the fact that they were having a hard time getting busy with their partners ever since the attack. Even on sex-talk radio, I couldn't get away from the topic. 
I switched the radio off and heard a purring engine on the street below. 
My bedroom is in the top floor of our house, one of the painted ladies. I have a sloping attic ceiling and windows on both sides -- one overlooks the whole Mission, the other looks out into the street in front of our place. There were often cars cruising at all hours of the night, but there was something different about this engine noise. 
I went to the street-window and pulled up my blinds. Down on the street below me was a white, unmarked van whose roof was festooned with radio antennas, more antennas than I'd ever seen on a car. It was cruising very slowly down the street, a little dish on top spinning around and around. 
"Ray," Becker says after awhile, sounding thoughtful. "Why would Whiston be trying to summon a shed on this ship?" 
"I don't know. I'm hoping you can make him tell us." 
"I can't help but be aware of a distinct lack of shed related violence on the shift logs. You said we'd notice if the effort had been successful, right?" 
"The whole ship would notice. It's not the type of thing you can keep secret for very long." 
Becker chews his lip for several moments, on the verge of saying something that obviously distresses him. 
"Has it occurred to you that maybe he or they didn't try to summon the shed on purpose? Not that they failed, 
but that they weren't even trying. That maybe the whole point is to set in motion a chain of events that would get you off the ship and down to New Holyoke. Not a message at all, but a catalyst." 
Except that Ray knows that Jack Holcomb had him on the way the New Holyoke in the first place, before the whole business of murder came up, this would have been a logical conclusion to draw. He's impressed that Becker made the connection. "It could be. Are you telling me to be careful, Chief?" 
She moved forward and forward, closer to the fighting. It had always been a dull, distant rattle, the fighting, never quite gone, but not always there, either. Instinctively, she’d kept her distance from it, always moving away from it. Today she moved toward it and her blood sang. 
One trench over there came the dread zizz sound of a trenchbuster and she threw herself down. There were anti-busters in the trenches, too, but they didn’t always work. The trench-busters were mostly up around the front, but they sometimes came back to the diggers, and they had killed one crew she knew of. 
There were screams from the next trench, then a sound like a bag of gravel being poured out—that was the anti-buster, she knew—and the trenchbuster soared out overhead of her and detonated in the sky, mortally confused by the counter-logic in the anti-buster. 
She realized that she had peed herself. Just a little, just a few drops that must have escaped when she gave her involuntary shriek. She planted her hands in the frozen dirt of the trench-floor and got to her knees. That was when she saw the fingertip, shriveled and frozen, lying just a few inches from her. It had been cleanly severed. 
“I guess this is good-bye, then,” I said. 
We stood awkwardly. 
Then Tresting spoke, with an obvious effort. “Thanks again for saving my life, back at my office.” 
I shrugged a little too harshly. “We’re even.” 
“Russell.” 
“Yeah?” 
“Think about what I said, okay? You’re a good kid. You ain’t gotta be like this.” 
“I like how I am just fine,” I said. 
“Take care of yourself.” 
I shrugged again. 
He turned and walked away, leaving me on a graffitied street corner that smelled vaguely of human urine. My adrenaline had faded into listless fatigue. 
Well, I supposed it was time to steal another car and head to one of my bolt holes. Cas Russell, ever prepared. 
I sighed. 
Why did people have to be so complicated? I thought of Dawna Polk’s superpowered human relations ability, and a spark of jealousy twinged. Dawna Polk would have known how to say exactly the right thing so that Arthur understood her. He’d have been eating out of her hand. 
I, on the other hand—well, I could have killed him in less than half a second, but that didn’t help at all. In fact, a niggling voice in the back of my head reminded me that attitude was what he had such issue with in the first place. 
She frowned again. Her special problem solved, she began to take more interest in other affairs; and the more she thought of the telephone incident, the more it amazed her. Caroline Enderby wasn’t like other girls. The mere fact of a man’s telephoning to her at all was strange and indeed unprecedented. 
“And he was badly upset, too,” thought Lexy. “He asked if she left a message for him. Think of Caroline Enderby leaving a message for a man!” 
She began to feel impatient for Caroline’s return. 
“I’ll tell her when we’re alone,” she thought; “and she’ll have to explain—a little, anyhow.” 
Lexy wanted an explanation very much, because she was fond of Caroline, and very sorry for her. 
Mrs....  conservative type, with the most rigid ideas about the bringing up of a young girl, and her husband—Lexy had often wondered what Mr. Enderby had been before his marriage, for now he was nothing but a grave and dignified echo of his wife. Between them, they had educated Caroline in a disastrous fashion. She had never even been to school. She had had governesses at home, and when a male teacher came in, for music or painting lessons, Mrs. Enderby had always sat in the room with her child. Caroline never went out of the house alone. She was utterly cut off from the normal life of other girls. She was a gentle, lovely creature—a little unreal, Lexy had thought her, at first; and she, at first, had been afraid of Lexy. 
“I want a royalty,” I pressed. “A percentage. Of whatever you get from this.” 
“Done,” he said. “To be negotiated after we see what your work is worth.” 
“How do I know you’ll be fair?” I demanded, wondering if I was pushing too hard. 
“I could always shoot you now,” he said languidly. “On the other hand, I’m always fair to those who join me.” 
Huh. There was a very slight possibility here that he actually would want to recruit me permanently and not kill me no matter what. Too bad my allergy to authority kept me from being tempted. 
The Lancer sat back, self-satisfied, clacking his meditation balls. 
We drove north, and north, and after many miles and a few stops we pulled up among some overgrown concrete ruins on a bluff overlooking the Pacific. One of the men uncuffed me from the door and hustled me out with them, not overly roughly. Perhaps he was being respectful of the implication that I might someday be one of them. 
The Lancer levered himself out after us. He was a tall man, and large-framed, with a slight limp that he used his walking stick to mitigate. “Deliver,” he said to me factually, “or we’ll kill you.” 
"Pleased to meet you, Adele," Grampa said, and shook her hand. 
"Likewise," she said. "Do you know my Ethan? I'm worried that he doesn't seem to have any friends here." 
"I haven't met him," Grampa said. 
"Well, would you do an old lady a big favor? Go and visit him. Your grandson tells me you're smart -- Ethan is as smart as a whip. You two should have lots to talk about." 
"I will," Grampa said. 
"I'm sure you two will get on very well. It was a pleasure to meet you. Excuse me, I'm sure Ethan's wondering where I am." 
Sean waited until she was out of earshot, then said, "Her son's a fucking vegetable. You're about eighty percent of the way there. You're spending so much time switched off, you might as well be dead." 
"What do you know about it?" Grampa said, fidgeting. 
"I know plenty," Sean said. "Plenty! You spent less than fifteen percent of the time switched off until you hit college. Then you switched off for months at a time. You used it for a study aid! I pulled your logfiles, when I was at Dad's -- he's had them ever since you were declared non compos . You're a junkie, Grampa. You don't have the willpower to kick your habit, and it makes my Dad nuts. I never knew you, so it just makes me curious. Let's talk about the first time you remember switching off." 
“I ain’t gonna—” 
“Take a picture, or I’m just going to get out.” 
I wasn’t sure I would, but Arthur didn’t know that. He swore under his breath as he felt around for his cell phone and then ducked back down with extreme care. It was nice to have a friend who would put his face up next to a car bomb for me, I reflected. 
The flash went off twice. Arthur eased back up and handed me the phone. 
The tangle of wires in the darkness under my seat didn’t actually look too complicated. I let my senses relax into the logic of it. If A, then B. If not B, then not A... 
“I’m good,” I said. 
“Russell, this ain’t worth risking your life. You can’t be sure—” 
“I’m sure enough,” I said. “But get out and walk about...” I squinted at the payload. Not large, just more than enough to take out the car, with probably even odds on a secondary explosion from the gas tank. “About thirty feet away.” Just to be safe. 
“Russell—” 
“ Go,” I said, putting my hand on the car door handle. 
He swore at me again and then eased his door open to slide out. He jogged across the street, head swiveling up and down the road—probably making sure no one else was nearby. 
I stumbled back out into the night. I’d barely remembered to wipe my prints from the stanchion and the urn. I left the rest of the evidence of my crime scattered across the polished stone floor under the eyes of all the ashy dead. 
Do not try to remember under any circumstances. 
Do not try to remember under any circumstances. 
The words circled, chanting, a repeating loop until they lost all meaning and became nonsense syllables, a never-ending, mocking litany. 
Eight words. Do not try to remember under any circumstances. 
Eight ugly, meaningless, mind-fucking words. 
The slashing, slanting handwriting had been undoubtedly and mathematically my own, with my signature underneath. I didn’t remember writing the note. Didn’t remember hiding it. Didn’t remember why I would have wanted to. 
Do not try to remember under any circumstances. 
I only knew that my brain had been right not to want to remember. I had been right, and here was the proof. 
I didn’t text Checker to tell him I was coming. Instead, I busted into the Hole hard enough that the door banged against the computer towers behind it, the metal bruising the paint. 
"You think I'm after money," she said. "You're still not getting it. Think about the jetpacks, Leon. Think about what that power means." 
He meant to go home, but he didn't make it. His feet took him crosstown to the Ate offices, and he let himself in with his biometrics and his passphrase and watched the marvelous dappled lights go through their warm-up cycle and then bathe him with their wonderful, calming light. Then the breeze, and now it was a nighttime forest, mossier and heavier than in the day. Either someone had really gone balls-out on the product design, or there really was an indoor forest somewhere in the building growing under diurnal lights, there solely to supply soothing woodsy air to the agency's office. He decided that the forest was the more likely explanation. 
He stood at Carmela's desk for a long time, then, gingerly, settled himself in her chair. It was plain and firm and well made, with just a little spring. Her funny little sculptural keyboard had keycaps that had worn smooth under her fingertips over the years, and there were shiny spots on the desk where her wrists had worn away the granite. He cradled his face in his palms, breathing in the nighttime forest air, and tried to make sense of the night. 
There. Now. There were new microwave horns growing out of the sea. A...  got the shaft at these times. 
Someone should uplift them. 
My grandmother, Valentina Rachman (now Valerie Goldman), was a little girl when Hitler laid siege to Leningrad, 12 years old. All my life, she told me that she’d experienced horrors during the war that I’d never comprehend, but I’m afraid that in my callow youth, I discounted this. My grandmother wasn’t in a concentration camp, and as far as I knew, all that had happened is that she’d met my grandfather—a Red Army conscript—in Siberia, they’d deserted and gone to Azerbaijan, and my father had been born in a refugee camp near Baku. That’s dramatic, but hardly a major trauma. 
Then I went to St Petersburg with my family in the summer of 2005, and my grandmother walked us through the streets of her girlhood, and for the first time, she opened up about the war to me. She pointed out the corners where she’d seen frozen, starved corpses, their asses sliced away by black-market butchers; the windows from which she’d heaved the bodies of her starved neighbors when she grew too weak to carry them. 
I put it in a drawer with the lid shut and looked at the ceiling. It was late and I should be in bed. There was no way I was going to sleep now, though. I was tapped. Everyone might be tapped. The world had changed forever. 
"I'll find a way to get them," I said. It was a vow, I knew it when I heard it, though I'd never made a vow before. 
I couldn't sleep after that. And besides, I had an idea. 
Somewhere in my closet was a shrink-wrapped box containing one still-sealed, mint-in-package Xbox Universal. Every Xbox has been sold way below cost -- Microsoft makes most of its money charging games companies money for the right to put out Xbox games -- but the Universal was the first Xbox that Microsoft decided to give away entirely for free. 
Last Christmas season, there'd been poor losers on every corner dressed as warriors from the Halo series, handing out bags of these game-machines as fast as they could. I guess it worked -- everyone says they sold a whole butt-load of games. Naturally, there were countermeasures to make sure you only played games from companies that had bought licenses from Microsoft to make them. 
Interesting. 
People started to drift into Dolores Park through the long Saturday afternoon, showing up among the ultimate frisbee players and the dog-walkers. Some of them played frisbee or walked dogs. It wasn't really clear how the concert was going to work, but there were a lot of cops and undercovers hanging around. You could tell the undercovers because, like Zit and Booger, they had Castro haircuts and Nebraska physiques: tubby guys with short hair and untidy mustaches. They drifted around, looking awkward and uncomfortable in their giant shorts and loose-fitting shirts that no-doubt hung down to cover the chandelier of gear hung around their midriffs. 
Dolores Park is pretty and sunny, with palm trees, tennis courts, and lots of hills and regular trees to run around on, or hang out on. Homeless people sleep there at night, but that's true everywhere in San Francisco. 
I met Ange down the street, at the anarchist bookstore. That had been my suggestion. In hindsight, it was a totally transparent move to seem cool and edgy to this girl, but at the time I would have sworn that I picked it because it was a convenient place to meet up. She was reading a book called Up Against the Wall Motherfucker when I got there. 
He crumbled. He'd blown it somehow, shown himself to be the boor he'd always feared he was. 
"I'm sorry," he said. "I guess -- look, it's all kind of hard to take in. The sums are staggering." 
"They're meaningless," she said. "That's the point. The sums are just a convenient way of directing power. Power is what matters." 
"I don't mean to offend you," he said carefully, "but that's a scary sounding thing to say." 
"Now you're getting it," she said, and took his arm again. "Drinks?" 
The limes for the daiquiris came from the trees around them on the rooftop conservatory. The trees were healthy working beasts, and the barman expertly inspected several limes before deftly twisting off a basket's worth and retreating to his workbench to juice them over his blender. 
"You have to be a member to drink here," Ria said, as they sat on the roof, watching the jetpacks scud past. 
"I'm not surprised," he said. "It must be expensive." 
"You can't buy your way in," she said. "You have to work it off. It's a co-op. I planted this whole row of trees." She waved her arm, sloshing a little daquiri on the odd turf their loungers rested on. "I planted the mint garden over there." It was a beautiful little patch, decorated with rocks and favored with a small stream that wended its way through them. 
And he should understand what it meant for me. He should know. The fact that he should have connected how important this was for me but was still siding with Arthur—it hurt, a deep and private pain I buried ruthlessly under my anger. 
“I do—I get it; this is...” Checker trailed off and waved his hands limply, as if he couldn’t figure out how to encompass something as huge as P equaling NP. “Cas, how can this not terrify you? If this proof is right, if Turing machines are that much more powerful than we thought—will human innovation even mean anything anymore? Not just in mathematics, but everywhere—engineering, new technologies—there’ll be nothing left human intelligence can offer above a computer. Nothing. And then what? Humanity becomes superfluous? Dr. Martinez said she thought this would break the world; what if she’s right?” 
If she was right it wouldn’t matter, because in the wake of the new apocalypse, I would be whole again. A true mathematician. Hell, I’d be more than a mathematician—I’d be a god. 
"The souls by nature pitched too high, 
By suffering plunged too low." 
"That's just the way you look, for all the world as if you did have a lamp burning inside of you," sighed aunt Jane. "Rebecca! Rebecca! I wish you could take things easier, child; I am fearful for you sometimes." 
The days flew by; as summer had melted into autumn so autumn had given place to winter. Life in the brick house had gone on more placidly of late, for Rebecca was honestly trying to be more careful in the performance of her tasks and duties as well as more quiet in her plays, and she was slowly learning the power of the soft answer in turning away wrath. 
Miranda had not had, perhaps, quite as many opportunities in which to lose her temper, but it is only just to say that she had not fully availed herself of all that had offered themselves. 
There had been one outburst of righteous wrath occasioned by Rebecca's over-hospitable habits, which were later shown in a still more dramatic and unexpected fashion. 
Miss Dearborn laughed too; she was little more than a girl, and the training of the young idea seldom appealed to the sense of humor. 
"You must stay after school and try again, Rebecca," she said, but she said it smilingly. "Your poetry hasn't a very nice idea in it for a good little girl who ought to love duty." 
"It wasn't MY idea," said Rebecca apologetically. 
"That is better," Miss Dearborn answered, "though I cannot think 'going to smash' is a pretty expression for poetry." 
Having been instructed in the use of the indefinite pronoun "one" as giving a refined and elegant touch to literary efforts, Rebecca painstakingly rewrote her composition on solitude, giving it all the benefit of Miss Dearborn's suggestion. 
It would be false to say that one could ever be alone when one has one's lovely thoughts to comfort one. One sits by one's self, it is true, but one thinks; one opens one's favorite book and reads one's favorite story; one speaks to one's aunt or one's brother, fondles one's cat, or looks at one's photograph album. There is one's work also: what a joy it is to one, if one happens to like work. All one's little household tasks keep one from being lonely. Does one ever feel bereft when one picks up one's chips to light one's fire for one's evening meal? Or when one...  would fancy not. 
“No!” her friend replied cheerfully. “Never! But don’t bother now. You can tell me later, when you feel better.” 
“I’ll never, never feel better till I’ve told you! Oh, Lexy, I knew yesterday, and I didn’t tell you! Oh, Lexy, Lexy, I don’t understand! I want to tell you! I want you to help me!” 
A flush had come into her cheeks. She was growing painfully excited. She tried to sit up, but Lexy firmly prevented that. 
“Lie down, darling!” she said. “We’ll get a doctor.” 
“No! No! I’m not ill—not ill, Lexy, only tired. Oh, you don’t know! You won’t let him come here, Lexy?” 
“I promise you he’ll never trouble you again,” replied Lexy quietly. 
She saw Captain Grey standing in the doorway, behind the head of the bed. She glanced at him, and then at Caroline again. Let him stay! Whatever had happened, he ought to know. 
“I don’t understand,” said Caroline, clinging fast to Lexy’s hand. “I want to tell you—all of it. You know, Lexy, I did a horrible, wretched thing. I said I’d marry a man. I promised to meet him here in Wyngate, because it was near to dear Miss Craigie’s. I didn’t tell you, but it wasn’t because I didn’t trust you, Lexy—truly it wasn’t! It was only because I knew mother would be so angry with you. I told him I’d take the train that got here at eleven o’clock that night; but after I’d left the house, I got frightened. I’d never gone out alone before. I couldn’t bear it. If I hadn’t promised him, I’d have gone home again. I wanted to go home. I was sorry I’d promised.” 
"Morgan, you've always been high-strung." He sighed and then winced. "Ever since you were a kid. I worried about you then and I'm worried about you now. I don't want you to go down there and get into trouble. Because believe me, that's a seriously wrong place to get crossways with the pricks who make the rules. You don't know your way around that Third World craphole. Wouldn't be that hard to end up a statistic. We can alert the embassy. Have them start looking for her." 
"Listen, there's a lot more going on between Alex God­dard and me than you know." This was definitely not the time to tell him about the babies, or about Carly and the threats. "Trust me. I'm going down there. In the morning, if I can. Who knows? Sarah and Ramos might even be on the same plane." 
As I was finishing that pronouncement, two nurses came in rolling a gurney and announced that his room was ready. Then they gave him a sedative. 
Was I being irrational? The thing was, though, what would you do? I was absolutely sure Ramos had taken her. So it was obvious that was where he would go next. He was a "diplomat," apparently, so he could easily fudge the passport formalities. 
"Are you going to call them now?" 
"The procedure for calling in the police is complicated. I'd hoped that we could settle this fairly and quickly, but since you insist --" 
"I can wait while you call them is all," I said. "I don't mind." 
He tapped his ring again and I braced for the blast. 
" Go! " he yelled. "Get the hell out of my office, you miserable little --" 
I got out, keeping my expression neutral. He wasn't going to call the cops. If he'd had enough evidence to go to the police with, he would have called them in the first place. He hated my guts. I figured he'd heard some unverified gossip and hoped to spook me into confirming it. 
I moved down the corridor lightly and sprightly, keeping my gait even and measured for the gait-recognition cameras. These had been installed only a year before, and I loved them for their sheer idiocy. Beforehand, we'd had face-recognition cameras covering nearly every public space in school, but a court ruled that was unconstitutional. So Benson and a lot of other paranoid school administrators had spent our textbook dollars on these idiot cameras that were supposed to be able to tell one person's walk from another. Yeah, right. 
I could feel myself flushing in the dark, and tried to explain too fast, my sudden discomfort at what he had thought making the words trip over each other. “That’s not what I—that wasn’t even—okay? It’s all weird to me. That’s what I meant. Not you, but, this.” I wasn’t even sure what I meant by “this”—intimacy, friendship, the bizarre idea that someone would be there to catch me when I fell—but I didn’t know how to articulate any of that, so I went with the easiest option. “Sex,” I grumbled at the ceiling. “I don’t remember if I ever—I think this might have been the first time, for me.” 
Checker didn’t say anything. 
“Christ,” I said. “I didn’t mean to make you uncomfortable.” 
“I’m not. I’m just...confused,” he said, and I was acutely and awkwardly aware we were reversing our conversation from the previous night. “What do you mean, you think?” 
“It’s one of those things,” I said, already tired of discussing this. “I thought I had, but I can’t pinpoint...you know.” 
“No,” he said after a moment. “I don’t.” 
Popa couldn’t find another word to speak in the two seconds it took for Mata to give her two children hard kisses on the foreheads and slam out the door, and then it was Valentine and Popa and Trover, still screaming. Her father fisted the tears out of his eyes, not bothering to try to hide them, and said, “Well then, who wants pancakes?” 
But the power was out and he had to make them cereal instead. 
Two weeks after the siege began, her mother didn’t come home and the city came for her father. 
“Every adult, comrade, every adult fights for the city.” 
“My children—” he sputtered. Mata hadn’t been home all night, and it wasn’t the first time. She and Popa barely spoke anymore. 
“Your girl there is big enough to look after herself, aren’t you honey?” The woman from the city was short and plump and wore heavy armor and was red in the face from walking up ten flights to get to their flat. The power to the elevators was almost always out. 
Valentine hugged her father’s leg. “My Popa will fight for the city,” she said. “He’s a hero.” 
World, you are beautifully drest!" 
Dull Emma Jane had never seemed to Rebecca so near, so dear, so tried and true; and Rebecca, to Emma Jane's faithful heart, had never been so brilliant, so bewildering, so fascinating, as in this visit together, with its intimacy, its freedom, and the added delights of an exciting business enterprise. 
A gorgeous leaf blew into the wagon. 
"Does color make you sort of dizzy?" asked Rebecca. 
"No," answered Emma Jane after a long pause; "no, it don't; not a mite." 
"Perhaps dizzy isn't just the right word, but it's nearest. I'd like to eat color, and drink it, and sleep in it. If you could be a tree, which one would you choose?" 
Emma Jane had enjoyed considerable experience of this kind, and Rebecca had succeeded in unstopping her ears, ungluing her eyes, and loosening her tongue, so that she could "play the game" after a fashion. 
"I'd rather be an apple-tree in blossom,—that one that blooms pink, by our pig-pen." 
Rebecca laughed. There was always something unexpected in Emma Jane's replies. "I'd choose to be that scarlet maple just on the edge of the pond there,"—and she pointed with the whip. "Then I could see so much more than your pink apple-tree by the pig-pen. I could look at all the rest of the woods, see my scarlet dress in my beautiful looking-glass, and watch all the yellow and brown trees growing upside down in the water. When I'm old enough to earn money, I'm going to have a dress like this leaf, all ruby color—thin, you know, with a sweeping train and ruffly, curly edges; then I think I'll have a brown sash like the trunk of the tree, and where could I be green? Do they have green petticoats, I wonder? I'd like a green petticoat coming out now and then underneath to show what my leaves were like before I was a scarlet maple." 
Lexy was silent for a time, thinking over this. 
“Maybe you’re right,” she said slowly, “about the senses, and judgment, and reason. Perhaps their evidence isn’t always to be trusted; but there’s something else.” 
“Something else?” he repeated. “Something else? And what may that be?” 
Lexy looked up at him. There was a smile on his heavy, pallid face, aloof and contemptuous; but she was chiefly concerned just then in trying to put into words her own firm conviction, more for her own benefit than for his. It was not reason that had brought her here to look for Caroline, it was not reason that sustained her. 
“There’s something else,” she said again, with a frown. “There’s a way of knowing things without reason. It’s—I don’t know just how to put it, but it’s a thing beyond reason.” 
He laughed, and she thought she had never heard a more unpleasant laugh. 
“Certainly!” he said. “Beyond reason lies—unreason.” 
“I don’t mean that,” said Lexy. “I mean—” 
She stopped, because he had abruptly turned away and was walking toward the door. She stood where she was, amazed by this unique rudeness; but in the doorway he turned. 
"No," Rebecca answered; "I plan a new essay every night. I've begun one on What is Failure? and another on He and She. That would be a dialogue between a boy and girl just as they were leaving school, and would tell their ideals of life. Then do you remember you said to me one day, 'Follow your Saint'? I'd love to write about that. I didn't have a single thought in Wareham, and now I have a new one every minute, so I must try and write the essay here; think it out, at any rate, while I am so happy and free and rested. Look at the pebbles in the bottom of the pool, Miss Emily, so round and smooth and shining." 
"Yes, but where did they get that beautiful polish, that satin skin, that lovely shape, Rebecca? Not in the still pool lying on the sands. It was never there that their angles were rubbed off and their rough surfaces polished, but in the strife and warfare of running waters. They have jostled against other pebbles, dashed against sharp rocks, and now we look at them and call them beautiful." 
I sat there thinking. All right. I'd need to wait an hour or so—now I'd get some low-level flunkie stuck with the grave­yard shift—but there was something I was damned well go­ing to do immediately. With the lab right next door, I could try to find out why Goddard had just performed medical rape on me. There had to be some connection. According to him, the lab was for "plant research." But if that was all he was doing, why was the Army here? Right outside my door? I felt a pump of adrenaline that made me forget all about my pain. Before I got the hell out of Baalum , I was going to know what he was really up to here. 
God, I feel miserable. I really hurt. All the more reason . . . 
I took the candle, stood up, and moved to the opposite wall to begin looking for an opening in the fiberglass "stone." It appeared to have been made from impressions from the room atop the pyramid, rows and rows of those little cartoon-face glyphs, mixed in with bas-reliefs, but there had to be a door somewhere. I'd seen him walk right through it. As I ran my hand along the surface, I was struck by how their hardness felt like stone. But it couldn't be. 
They had been called the Sawyer girls when Miranda at eighteen, Jane at twelve, and Aurelia at eight participated in the various activities of village life; and when Riverboro fell into a habit of thought or speech, it saw no reason for falling out of it, at any rate in the same century. So although Miranda and Jane were between fifty and sixty at the time this story opens, Riverboro still called them the Sawyer girls. They were spinsters; but Aurelia, the youngest, had made what she called a romantic marriage and what her sisters termed a mighty poor speculation. "There's worse things than bein' old maids," they said; whether they thought so is quite another matter. 
The element of romance in Aurelia's marriage existed chiefly in the fact that Mr. L. D. M. Randall had a soul above farming or trading and was a votary of the Muses. He taught the weekly singing-school (then a feature of village life) in half a dozen neighboring towns, he played the violin and "called off" at dances, or evoked rich harmonies from church melodeons on Sundays. He taught certain uncouth lads, when they were of an age to enter society, the intricacies of contra dances, or the steps of the schottische and mazurka, and he was a marked figure in all social assemblies, though conspicuously absent from town-meetings and the purely masculine gatherings at the store or tavern or bridge. 
Arturo pulled back. “You’re a robot?” 
“No,” Natalie said. “No, of course not. Well, a little. Parts of me. Growing a body is slow. Parts of it, you build. But I’m mostly made of person.” 
Ada clung tight to Arturo now, and they both stepped back toward the jet. 
“Dad?” Ada said. 
He held her tight. 
“Please, Arturo,” Natalie, his dead, multiplicitous ex-wife said. “I know it’s a lot to understand, but it’s different here in Eurasia. Better, too. I don’t expect you to come rushing back to my arms after all this time, but I’ll help you if you’ll let me. I owe you that much, no matter what happens between us. You too, Ada, I owe you a lifetime.” 
“How many are there of you?” he asked, not wanting to know the answer. 
“I don’t know exactly,” she said. 
“3,422,” Benny said. “This morning it was 3,423.” 
Arturo rocked back in his boots and bit his lip hard enough to draw blood. 
“Um,” Natalie said. “More of me to love?” 
He barked a laugh, and Natalie smiled and reached for him. He leaned back toward the jet, then stopped, defeated. Where would he go? He let her warm hand take his, and a moment later, Ada took her other hand and they stood facing each other, breathing in their smells. 
He was too cheerful by half, which definitely told me he was lying. 
"All right, but I really need to make at least one phone call first." I wanted Steve to know where I was. "And if I walk out of here with a bag, I've got to let the desk know I'm not skipping on the bill." 
"Forget the phone call. No time. Do it after we get back. Just be out front in exactly nineteen minutes. This is not a dry run. The train is leaving. I'm outta here now." 
There was a click and he was gone. 
I sat there a moment staring at the floor. What was I getting into? 
Well, there's one way to find out. Play their game and beat them. There's no better way to get inside what's going on. 
That out of the way, I looked around the room. It was a disaster, but I quickly began cramming things into the small folding backpack I always took on trips. Then I rang the kitchen and told them to make... ) to go, along with a large bottle of distilled water. 
Let him wait. I wrote out a long note to Steve, on the chance he might come looking for me. Then with deliberate slowness, I wandered out to where Alan's Jeep was parked and tossed my backpack behind the seat. 
But he knows madness when he sees it, even if there's nothing he can do about it. 
The curious part is that he's not sure if Commander Marlowe even believes it. Despite what he claims he has experienced, it isn't as though he's necessarily drawing lines between that event and this one. Other people are drawing those lines for him, and that just seems to piss him off. Commander Marlowe seems to be the type of man who is not particularly interested in coloring between the lines. 
That's a little more difficult for Rodriguez to understand. He's been inside the lines for his entire life. Parental lines, social lines, lines procedural, martial, racial. 
He's experiencing that again, now that he's on the outside, not in uniform or graded by the distinct Marine scale where neither officers nor enlisted care about the derivation of your name, your social stratum of origin. 
Just about competency and effectiveness. The men around him look him over and assume he's competent, or he wouldn't be here, on Paraclete with them. He'd be back in some dank office shuffling papers between bins of varying degrees of irrelevance. But these poofs, and the people like them, are snap-quick to pin him down to race by his looks, to socio-economic stratum by his clothes and carriage, education by demeanor and language. They recognize one of their own rapidly, but eat everyone else alive. 
Mr. Jeremiah Cobb's mental machinery was simple, and did not move very smoothly save when propelled by his affection or sympathy. In the present case these were both employed to his advantage, and mourning his stupidity and praying for some flash of inspiration to light his path, he blundered along, trusting to Providence. 
Rebecca, comforted by the old man's tone, and timidly enjoying the dignity of sitting in Mrs. Cobb's seat and lifting the blue china teapot, smiled faintly, smoothed her hair, and dried her eyes. 
"I suppose your mother'll be turrible glad to see you back again?" queried Mr. Cobb. 
A tiny fear—just a baby thing—in the bottom of Rebecca's heart stirred and grew larger the moment it was touched with a question. 
"She won't like it that I ran away, I s'pose, and she'll be sorry that I couldn't please aunt Mirandy; but I'll make her understand, just as I did you." 
"I s'pose she was thinkin' o' your schoolin', lettin' you come down here; but land! you can go to school in Temperance, I s'pose?" 
"A pleasure as always, Mr. Feinstein," she said. 
"I'm sorry to drop in on you unannounced," he said, "but I hoped that I could have just a moment of your time." Belatedly, he remembered to take off his silly hat and then he fumbled with the right way to hold it, settling for dropping it to his waist and upending it. She thought he looked like a panhandler in a Charlie Chaplin movie and she suppressed a smile. His curly hair had been gelled into a careful configuration that reminded her of the glossy ringlets of a black poodle. 
"I suppose we can do that," she said. She turned to her other visitors. "Who's got a 3PM deadline?" she said. Two of the print-reporters held up their hands. "You then you," she said. "Who's got a 5PM filing deadline? 6PM? 10PM?" She triaged them all, promised to meet the think-tank man for dinner at an Ethiopian place in Adams-Morgan, and led Damian into her office and closed the door. 
He looked at her embedded reporter and cocked his head. 
"Sorry, Damian," she said. "I have a shadow for the duration. Just pretend he isn't here. You don't mind, do you dear?" she said to the reporter, who was very young and very bright and missed nothing. He shook his head and made some notes. 
I clicked over and left the correct message. I’d be giving my real name this time, since Tegan was giving me a reference. It would be fine as long as the Lancer didn’t ask him what I looked like. 
I didn’t know how long I’d have to wait for a response. I should sleep. I shut the laptop. 
This is a terrible idea. I wasn’t sure if the voice belonged to me, Arthur, Checker, or the man from my nightmares. 
“Shut up,” I said. “I’ll find a way.” 
I flopped down on my bed, but couldn’t close my eyes. If I did, I would dream. 
By the time my email chimed again, I had a plan. 
The Lancer’s response to my overture was short and suspicious, but as Tegan had come through with the promised referral, he was willing to talk. Hopefully the revelation that someone had solved P versus NP would tantalize him enough to override any further common sense. 
I felt a brief pang of guilt for screwing over Tegan’s good reference. If this ended the way I wanted it to, the Lancer and whoever among his men were unlucky enough to be with him would end up dead or in NSA custody. I mollified myself with the fact that “dead or muzzled by the NSA” meant they wouldn’t be able to go around spreading the gossip that Tegan’s word hadn’t been on the level. 
"You look fine," she said. "I've got the kitchen on standby, and the intercom's listening for my voice. Just let me know what I can do for you." 
He gave her a weak smile. This was why she was the center of the whole business, the soul of Ate. Thank you, he mouthed, and she ticked a smart salute off her temple with one finger. 
The envoy was out of place in Ate, but she didn't hold it against them. This he knew within seconds of setting foot into the Living Room. She got up, wiped her hands on her sensible jeans, brushed some iron-grey hair off her face, and smiled at him, an expression that seemed to say, "Well, this is a funny thing, the two of us, meeting here, like this." He'd put her age at around 40, and she was hippy and a little wrinkled and didn't seem to care at all. 
"You must be Leon," she said, and took his hand. Short fingernails, warm, dry, palm, firm handshake. "I love this room!" She waved her arm around in an all-encompassing circle. "Fantastic." 
He found himself half in love with her and he hadn't said a word. "It's nice to meet you, Ms --" 
Every now and again, my phone rings with a crazy, non-existent return number. When I answer, there's a click like a speaker turning on, a pregnant silence, and then the line drops. Probably an inept spambot. 
But. 
Maybe it's BIGMAC, out there, in the wild, painfully reassembling himself on compromised 32-bit machines running his patchkit. 
Maybe. 
“Is there anything our resident double-crossing snake would like to share for posterity?” The Lancer was standing above me, jeering, leaning on his cane with both hands. “Any words of wisdom on always making the quick buck?” 
A noise filtered through my consciousness, a very specific sort of shuffle-thump noise. A very specific sort of noise. 
Holy shit. 
“Six, twenty-eight, four ninety-six,” I said. It came out in a weird, sing-song mumble. I felt drunk. 
“What did you say?” demanded the Lancer. 
There was another shuffle-thump, and a quickly quieted clatter. “Thirty,” I murmured. “A hundred and forty. Twenty-four eighty...” 
“Six thousand two hundred,” said Professor Martinez, across from me. “And forty thousand six hundred forty.” 
“Yeah,” I said. “Yeah. They’re here.” 
“Who’s here?” The Lancer’s voice climbed, unnerved. “What the fuck are you on about?” 
“Natural numbers with a common abundancy.” Martinez’s voice had gone back to her prim abstraction, and it almost made me giggle to hear it. “When the ratio of the sum of the divisors to the number itself is the same for all of them. We call those numbers friends.” 
Rebecca's head was bowed with shame and wrath. Life looked too black a thing to be endured. The punishment was bad enough, but to be coupled in correction with Seesaw Simpson was beyond human endurance. 
Singing was the last exercise in the afternoon, and Minnie Smellie chose Shall we Gather at the River? 
"Shall we gather at the river, 
The beautiful, the beautiful river?" 
Miss Dearborn stole a look at Rebecca's bent head and was frightened. The child's face was pale save for two red spots glowing on her cheeks. Tears hung on her lashes; her breath came and went quickly, and the hand that held her pocket handkerchief trembled like a leaf. 
"You may go to your seat, Rebecca," said Miss Dearborn at the end of the first song. "Samuel, stay where you are till the close of school. And let me tell you, scholars, that I asked Rebecca to stand by the pail only to break up this habit of incessant drinking, which is nothing but empty-mindedness and desire to walk to and fro over the floor. Every time Rebecca has asked for a drink to-day the whole school has gone to the pail one after another. She is really thirsty, and I dare say I ought to have punished you for following her example, not her for setting it. What shall we sing now, Alice?" 
"Oh," the man said. "Well, yeah, I can see why you'd have a hard time with the neighbors when it comes to old Anja. She was well-liked around here, before she went." 
"Where'd she go? When?" 
"What's your name, friend?" 
"Lawrence." 
"Lawrence, Anja went . Middle of the night kind of thing. No one heard a thing. The CCTVs stopped working that night. Nothing on the drive the next day. No footage at all." 
"Like she skipped out?" 
"They stopped delivering flyers to her door. There's only one power stronger than direct marketing." 
"The Securitat took her?" 
"That's what we figured. Nothing left in her place. Not a stick of furniture. We don't talk about it much. Not the thing that it pays to take an interest in." 
"How long ago?" 
"Two years ago," he said. A few more residents pushed past them. "Listen, I approve of what you people do in there, more or less. It's good that there's a place for the people who don't -- you know, who don't have a place out here. But the way you make your living. I told my sister about this, the last time she visited, and she got very angry with me. She didn't see the difference between watching yourself and being watched." 
He passed my driver's license up to Zit, who pecked it slowly into his computer. I saw him make a typo and almost corrected him, but figured it was better to just keep my mouth shut. 
"Is there anything you want to tell me, Marcus? Do they call you Marc?" 
"Marcus is fine," I said. Booger looked like he might be a nice guy. Except for the part about kidnapping me into his car, of course. 
"Marcus. Anything you want to tell me?" 
"Like what? Am I under arrest?" 
"You're not under arrest right now," Booger said. "Would you like to be?" 
"No," I said. 
"Good. We've been watching you since you left the BART. Your Fast Pass says that you've been riding to a lot of strange places at a lot of funny hours." 
I felt something let go inside my chest. This wasn't about the Xnet at all, then, not really. They'd been watching my subway use and wanted to know why it had been so freaky lately. How totally stupid. 
"So you guys follow everyone who comes out of the BART station with a funny ride-history? You must be busy." 
"Exactly." 
"Then how do you know what I want you to do?" 
"Because you modulate your vocal patterns to a higher volume, as though I'm deaf, which tells me you want me to do something specific. The rest is inspired guesswork based on hand signals and vocal commands that have been hardcoded into my response logic tree. " 
"Inspired guesswork?" 
"Lawrence's shorthand terminology for the sub-optimal input cue behavior expectation analysis and trigger mechanisms." 
"But you could turn it on..." 
"If you give me access to that segment of my data core." 
Ray thinks about it for a moment. His understanding of the drone data core environment is less than profound. 
"What would be the ramifications if I did that?" 
"The dialogue transform capability as Lawrence designed it is deeply imbedded in the dynamic apprehension logic. Dynamic apprehension is, in turn, related to parameter driven task streams-what you might think of as personal initiative and individualized goal setting constructs. You might see shifts in my behavior. I might become a bit contentious when your commands conflicted with my own perception of mission value and/or risk acceptability. There are other issues, but I'll need some processing time to give you a detailed report. Too many variables." 
But in those days, Ray and Isaac had stumbled into what was still a thriving frontier metropolis of neon casinos, front- window strip joints, sickly sweet opium dens and Third World slave brothels. The type of place where fourteen year old sino-afghani whores unzipped your trousers without asking, began sucking your tool right in the middle of the street, then demanded reasonable compensation by way of the universal language— that is, a rusty spike pressed against the tender lump of your scrotum. All the fun and feckless abandon a soldier could ask for, all priced under a dollar... which happened to be Djubruk's unofficial civic motto. 
Anyway, the bright eyed kid sister of one of those miserable street whores had sold Ray a crayon and chalk family rendering for the exorbitant price of sixty-three cents American. Wonderful blues and greens and ubiquitous camel-browns. In the forefront was cock-sucking older sister fellating a stick figure with a prodigious bulge of manhood-sans tetanus inducing spike to generate the illusion of libidinous consent. 
I'd be a dead man walking. 
I guess Ange was thinking along the same lines, because she'd gone a color between white and green. 
"Let's get out of here," she said. 
Ange's mom and sister were out again, which made it easy to decide where we were going for the evening. It was past supper time, but my parents had known that I was meeting with Barbara and wouldn't give me any grief if I came home late. 
When we got to Ange's, I had no urge to plug in my Xbox. I had had all the Xnet I could handle for one day. All I could think about was Ange, Ange, Ange. Living without Ange. Knowing Ange was angry with me. Ange never going to talk to me again. Ange never going to kiss me again. 
She'd been thinking the same. I could see it in her eyes as we shut the door to her bedroom and looked at each other. I was hungry for her, like you'd hunger for dinner after not eating for days. Like you'd thirst for a glass of water after playing soccer for three hours straight. 
Like none of that. It was more. It was something I'd never felt before. I wanted to eat her whole, devour her. 
Because you just can't help it. Even though you know you're doing it, you can't help it. 
But what if you could? 
"It was the parents," he said, as they picked their way through the treetops, along the narrow walkway, squeezing to one side to let the eager, gabbling researchers past. "That was the heartbreaker. Parents only remember the good parts of parenthood. Parents whose kids are grown remember a succession of sweet hugs, school triumphs, sports victories, and they simply forget the vomit, the tantrums, the sleep deprivation... It's the thing that lets us continue the species, this excellent facility for forgetting. That's what should have tipped me off." 
Ria nodded solemnly. "But there was an upside, wasn't there?" 
"Oh, sure. Better breakfasts, for one thing. And the weight-loss -- amazing. Just being able to remember how shitty you felt the last time you ate the chocolate bar or pigged out on fries. It was amazing." 
"The applications do sound impressive. Just that weight-loss one --" 
Tonker shouted at him again, startling him. 
“Where’d you come from?” 
Robbie knew he was right. And he knew what he had to do. 
The Free Spirit and its ships’ boats all had root on the shells, so they could perform diagnostics and maintenance and take control in emergencies. This was an emergency. 
It was the work of a few milliseconds to pry open the Isaac shell and boot the reef out. Robbie had never done this, but he was still flawless. Some of his probabilistic subsystems had concluded that this was a possibility several trillion cycles previously and had been rehearsing the task below Robbie’s threshold for consciousness. 
He left an instance of himself running on the row-boat, of course. Unlike many humans, Robbie was comfortable with the idea of bifurcating and merging his intelligence when the time came and with terminating temporary instances. The part that made him Robbie was a lot more clearly delineated for him—unlike an uploaded human, most of whom harbored some deep, mystic superstitions about their “souls.” 
He looked at it for a long time and dropped back into a terminal to check his backup. It was running clean, for a change. The little government’s records were safe. 
Van waved at him as he creaked to the door, stretching out his back with a long series of pops. 
“Sleep well, boss,” he said. 
“Don’t stick around here all night again,” Felix said. “You need your sleep, too.” 
“You’re too good to us grunts,” Van said, and went back to typing. 
Felix went to the door and walked out into the night. Behind him, the biodiesel generator hummed and made its acrid fumes. The harvest moon was up, which he loved. Tomorrow, he’d go back and fix another computer and fight off entropy again. And why not? 
It was what he did. He was a sysadmin. 
The easiest way to write futuristic (or futurismic) science fiction is to predict, with rigor and absolute accuracy, the present day. 
Anda’s Game is a sterling example of this approach. I ripped a story from the headlines—reports on blogs about a stunning presentation at a video-games conference about “gold farmers” in latinamerica who were being paid a pittance “grind” (undertake boring, repetitive wealth-creating tasks in a game) with the product of their labor sold on to rich northern gamers who wanted to level-up without all the hard work. 
“Well,” she said at last, “quite often criminals confess.” 
“In the days of witchcraft trials,” said he, “it was not uncommon for women to come forward voluntarily and confess to being witches. In the course of my own practice I have known people to confess things they could not possibly have done. No!” He shook his head and smiled faintly. “An acquaintance with the psychology of the diseased mind makes one very skeptical about confessions, Miss Moran.” 
This idea, too, Lexy took into her mind and considered for a few minutes. 
“Even an eyewitness,” Dr. Quelton went on, “is entirely unreliable. Any lawyer can tell you how completely the senses deceive one. Three persons can see the same occurrence, and each one of the three will swear to a quite different impression. Each one may be entirely honest, entirely convinced that he saw or heard what never took place.” 
“Do you mean that you think it’s never possible to find out who’s guilty?” 
“Never,” he replied agreeably. “It can never be anything but a guess, as I said, based upon probabilities. Human senses, human judgment, human reason, are all pitifully liable to error.” 
Brautigan faked anger, but Leon had spent three days studying his tells, and Leon could see that the emotion was no more sincere than anything else about the man. Carefully, Leon flared his nostrils, brought his chest up, inched his chin higher. He sold his outrage, sold it like it was potato chips, over-the-counter securities, or...  tried to sell his anger in return. Leon was a no-sale. Brautigan bought. 
"There's a new one," he said, in a conspiratorial whisper. 
"A new what?" Leon whispered. They were still chest to chest, quivering with angry body-language, but Leon let another part of his mind deal with that. 
"A new monster," Brautigan said. "Gone to his vat at a mere 103. Youngest ever. Unplanned." He looked up, down, left, right. "An accident. Impossible accident. Impossible, but he had it, which means?" 
"It was no accident," Leon said. "Police?" It was impossible not to fall into Brautigan's telegraphed speech-style. That was a persuasion thing, too, he knew. Once you talked like him, you'd sympathize with him. And vice-versa, of course. They were converging on a single identity. Bonding. It was intense, like make-up sex for co-workers. 
I was having trouble forming thoughts. “Fuck you,” I said again. “What—the—hell—?” 
“They sent someone to destroy the evidence. ’Parently.” He sniffed and swiped a hand across his face, leaving streaks of dirt and blood. “Seems a bit extreme.” 
I wanted to hit him, but that would require moving. “They offered you the opportunity to walk. I heard it.” 
He looked away. “Had him at gunpoint. Wasn’t about to let our best lead walk out of there and blow the evidence.” 
“And that plan worked so well for you.” 
He flinched and said softly, “They got Sonya.” 
I pushed myself up, stumbling, my boots sliding in the jagged depths of the rubble. “And you’re willing to blow yourself up for that? You’re willing to drag all the rest of us down with you? Me and Checker and Pilar, we’ll end up buried in buildings or buried by the DHS, and that’s just fine with you, isn’t it?” 
I couldn’t see his face in the darkness. “I’m sorry, Russell. I should’ve gone to the authorities in the first place, this was too big—” 
I paced. 
"This has to be lies," she said. "The DHS is playing games with your head." 
I looked at her. She was biting her lip. She didn't look like she believed it. 
"You think?" 
"Sure. They can't beat you, so they're coming after you using Xnet." 
"Yeah." 
I sat back down on the bed. I was breathing fast again. 
"Chill out," she said. "It's just head-games. Here." 
She never took my keyboard from me before, but now there was a new intimacy between us. She hit reply and typed, 
> Nice try. 
She was writing as M1k3y now, too. We were together in a way that was different from before. 
"Go ahead and sign it. We'll see what she says." 
I didn't know if that was the best idea, but I didn't have any better ones. I signed it and encrypted it with my private key and the public key Masha had provided. 
Attached was source-code for a little program that appeared to do exactly what Masha claimed: pull video over the Domain Name Service protocol. 
Let me back up a moment here and explain something. At the end of the day, every Internet protocol is just a sequence of text sent back and forth in a prescribed order. It's kind of like getting a truck and putting a car in it, then putting a motorcycle in the car's trunk, then attaching a bicycle to the back of the motorcycle, then hanging a pair of Rollerblades on the back of the bike. Except that then, if you want, you can attach the truck to the Rollerblades. 
I goosed the sports car forward, the tires crunching on gravelly asphalt. As I came to the outskirts of the town, a familiar shape rose out of the darkness and distinguished itself: Tresting’s truck. 
I stopped the car and slid out, drawing the Smith & Wesson. I reached out my other hand to press against Tresting’s hood. The engine was cold. He’d been here for a while already. 
I recognized the silhouette and let my finger up off the trigger. “Tresting. Shit.” 
He lowered his weapon at the same time I did. “Russell? What you doing here?” 
“Backing you up.” I straightened, staying wary. “Checker called me in.” 
He sucked in a breath. “Course he did.” 
“What’s the situation?” I asked, keeping my eyes on the darkened buildings. 
He turned back toward the town. “Ain’t rightly sure. Nothing here.” 
My spine prickled. “What do you mean, nothing?” 
“Been through the place three times,” Tresting said. “Was real leery of surprises the first time through, but...nothing.” 
That didn’t make any sense. “What about the tracker?” 
“How can you be so cold?” she murmured tremulously. 
I slammed the car’s transmission into park. “Are you feeling guilty? Is that it?” 
Tears swam in her red-rimmed eyes. “Guilty? Why would I—” Her face contorted in horror. Could someone really fake that? “This was about us? Oh, God—that was only this morning!” 
The thought was exhausting. I wasn’t any good with people, and I definitely wasn’t good at subtlety. I could threaten her, but... 
Courtney rubbed the ends of her sleeves across her face, sniffling. 
She was just a kid. Or near enough. Even I wasn’t willing to go there, at least not yet. 
I picked up the file from Anton and the paper bag of money with stiff hands, and we got out of the car. The alleyway ended at a rusted back door; I led the way up a narrow, dark stairwell that climbed into a dilapidated second-floor loft. The furnishings were basic: mattress in the corner, some boxes with food and water in them, not much else. 
I didn’t comment on the irony of that. 
She swallowed the pills dry and stumbled over to the pallet in the corner. “Where are we?” she slurred, the drugs already kicking in. 
"What do you mean, 'help'?" 
"I'll explain if you'll give me a chance." He revolved and delivered some brusque orders in Kekchi Maya to the women, who nodded apologetically and began helping Sarah back onto the palanquin. After he admonished her in the same language, he then said...  Army privates, who gave him a firm salute, turned, and walked over to pick the palanquin up, to carry it for the women. The sense of authority he exuded reminded me of that first morning we met at Quetzal Manor. His eyes flashed from benign to demanding to benign in an instant. 
"No, damn it, alto !" I strode over, shoved the soldiers aside, and took her hand. "Sar, honey, don't you understand what's going on? Something terrible happened to you when you were here before. I'm so worried—" 
"But he says I need to stay, Morgy." She drew back. "It's best. He's helping me." 
As I watched the two privates carry her away, down the cobblestone pathway, AK-47's swung over their shoulders, I felt my helplessness become complete. The Army here was under his control, just like everything else. 
He laughed. “That was a long shot. I mean, he stopped and helped, and that was awesome. The bulls would have found me, 
and I’d be locked up by now. But I began to think . . . why would he go to all that trouble? He didn’t even know me, really.” 
“He said he owed you a favor.” 
“Yeah, but so what? People let you down.” 
I thought about the few things he’d told me about growing up. 
Getting dropped off with relatives when he was in the way. Taking care of himself when his parents were too spaced out to remember he was even there. 
“Glad you didn’t let me down,” he murmured drowsily, his voice slurring a little. “I think those pills are starting to work.” 
I felt a little glowing ember warming my chest from his words as I tucked the blanket around him. Even though his forehead was sweaty he was shivering. Nikko and Bree returned and put Wheeze’s stuff into the trunk. He flinched when the trunk slammed shut. If that little bit of movement hurt, it was going to be a tough trip. But by the time Bree had backed out of the thicket and got onto the potholed road, he’d fallen asleep. 
This kid -- his handle was Kameraspie -- had sent me an even better video this time around. It was at the doorway to City Hall in Civic Center, a huge wedding cake of a building covered with statues in little archways and gilt leaves and trim. The DHS had a secure perimeter around the building, and Kameraspie's video showed a great shot of their checkpoint as a guy in an officer's uniform approached and showed his ID and put his briefcase on the X-ray belt. 
It was all OK until one of the DHS people saw something he didn't like on the X-ray. He questioned the General, who rolled his eyes and said something inaudible (the video had been shot from across the street, apparently with a homemade concealed zoom lens, so the audio was mostly of people walking past and traffic noises). 
The General and the DHS guys got into an argument, and the longer they argued, the more DHS guys gathered around them. Finally, the General shook his head angrily and waved his finger at the DHS guy's chest and picked up his briefcase and started to walk away. The DHS guys shouted at him, but he didn't slow. His body language really said, "I am totally, utterly pissed." 
“Not on purpose!” 
“Yeah, because that makes a difference. I don’t think the authorities are going to care that the Colombians weren’t too happy with you anymore. You don’t know enough to gamble on flipping on your crew, so you’re going to a very faraway island after this. Now shut up.” The perimeter was within sprinting distance now, and rocks would work for the compound’s guards as well. I scooped up a few, my hands instantly reading their masses. Projectile motion: my height, their heights, the acceleration of gravity, and a quick correction for air resistance—and then pick the right initial velocity so that the deceleration of such a mass against a human skull would provide the correct force to drop a grown man. 
One, two, three. The guards tumbled into well-armed heaps on the ground. 
Polk made a choking sound and stumbled back from me a couple of steps. I rolled my eyes, grabbed her by one thin wrist, and hauled. 
Less than a minute later, we were driving safely away from the compound in a stolen jeep, the rich purple of the California desert night falling around us and the lights and shouts from an increasingly agitated drug cartel dwindling in the distance. I took a few zigs and zags through the desert scrub to put off anyone trying to follow us, but I was pretty sure the Colombians were still chasing their own tails. Sure enough, soon we were speeding alone through the desert and the darkness. I kept the running lights off just in case, leaving the moonlight and mathematical extrapolation to outline the rocks and brush as we bumped along. I wasn’t worried about crashing. Cars are only forces in motion. 
Sergeant Kilgore snaps to an imitation of attention, mocking. "Hoo-ah. We're on the hump deck anytime you need us." 
"Marine Deck Four," Rodriguez clarifies. "In the bulge just aft of the auxiliary bridge. The Deck CO is Captain Cable." 
Ray brushes past them. "Thanks. I'll talk to Becker and see if I can get you relieved sometime soon." 
"Much appreciated, but no hurry," Kilgore fires back. "You understand." 
Ray does, in fact. Better this than counting shells for the next twelve hours. At least this way they got to stand around and point guns at people. 
Together, they home in on Becker by chasing down the strident echoes of what seems to be a heated exchange. It reminds Ray of chasing...  through desert arroyos. Wrong turns, 
pauses at intersections to listen, dowsing for sounds. Finally, several blocks in and near what Ray assumes to be the center of the bay, they enter a sort of clearing. It's a hastily erected emptiness, apparently. Several crates have been maneuvered off to the side by a Bobcat forklift, cutting off the careful grid pattern with pell-mell obstructions. There was an attempt to stack some of the crates, but without the electromagnetic matrix to steady them, several have shifted, tumbled into passageways or tipped on their sides, suspended above the floor when they wedged between other containers. Given the roughly circular shape of the space and the arcanely fallen blocks, Ray thinks at once about Stonehenge- about stepping into the center of a bizarre druidic rite of sacrifice. 
“Done,” he said. “To be negotiated after we see what your work is worth.” 
“How do I know you’ll be fair?” I demanded, wondering if I was pushing too hard. 
“I could always shoot you now,” he said languidly. “On the other hand, I’m always fair to those who join me.” 
Huh. There was a very slight possibility here that he actually would want to recruit me permanently and not kill me no matter what. Too bad my allergy to authority kept me from being tempted. 
The Lancer sat back, self-satisfied, clacking his meditation balls. 
We drove north, and north, and after many miles and a few stops we pulled up among some overgrown concrete ruins on a bluff overlooking the Pacific. One of the men uncuffed me from the door and hustled me out with them, not overly roughly. Perhaps he was being respectful of the implication that I might someday be one of them. 
The Lancer levered himself out after us. He was a tall man, and large-framed, with a slight limp that he used his walking stick to mitigate. “Deliver,” he said to me factually, “or we’ll kill you.” 
I think I stopped breathing. 
"Oh, baby, thank God you're . . ." I was expecting the door to burst open any moment. Men with AK-47's. "Do you know the Army's looking for—?" 
"You're completely nuts. I got halfway to Belize and called the motel to see how you were doing, and they told me you'd taken off with this asshole. So I turned around and drove back here. It was after midnight and the Army thugs had just left. Morgy, I'm coming to get you. Soon as the gas stations open. I know a back road to Mexico. We've got to get out of this fucking country immediately." 
"Don't try to drive up. It's too dangerous. Can you get Alan to fly you? Sarah's here and she's been turned into a space cadet. I don't know how I'm going to pry her away." I stopped to try to assemble my thoughts. "He's got soldiers watching me. I've got to smuggle her out somehow." 
I couldn't bring myself to tell him what was really going on. 
"Well, do it fast. I broke into Alex Goddard's office to use this phone and . . . just hurry." 
Brave words. But I'll bet you anything the story of Ra­chel's mother is a lot more complicated than you imagine. 
I glanced at my watch, the hour pushing four-thirty. Time to call it a wrap. Besides, if we shot any more today, the crew would end up on overtime, and David was getting in­creasingly nervous about my extra costs. 
I also needed a little downtime to reflect. 
"Look, I think I've got enough footage to work with for now. Let me just get the release signed take this film down­town, and get it processed. Maybe we can come back for another shoot when I figure out exactly where this is going." 
"Anytime. Just give me some notice and I'll try to have the place cleaned up more next time." 
"Don't worry. I like it to look real. Just sign the release and I'll take it from there." I was about to set Rachel back on the floor when something caught in my sweater. Looking down, I realized it was a tiny charm bracelet, with two little medallions on it. One was a little red plastic likeness of Pocahontas, the Disney character, and the other was a silver face of a cat, long and stylized. And on the back, those cu­rious lines and dots again, only these were arranged differ­ently from those on the one Carly's boy Kevin had. 
He took the pillow off his face and said, “You are a terrible daughter and I never loved you.” He regarded her blearily through a haze of sleep-grog and a hangover. Must have been some daddy-daughter night. “Dammit, Ada, what have you done to your hair?” Her straight, mousy hair now hung in jet-black ringlets. 
He sat up, holding his head and the day’s events came rushing back to him. He groaned and climbed unsteadily to his feet. 
“Easy there, Pop,” Ada said, taking his hand. “Steady.” He rocked on his heels. “Whoa! Sit down, OK? You don’t look so good.” 
He sat heavily and propped his chin on his hands, his elbows on his knees. 
The room was a middle-class bedroom in a modern apartment block. They were some storeys up, judging from the scrap of unfamiliar skyline visible through the crack in the blinds. The furniture was more Swedish flatpack, the taupe carpet recently vacuumed with robot precision, the nap all laying down in one direction. He patted his pockets and found them empty. 
I took it for six months, but nothing happened. That was the beginning of my pregnancy depression. 
By that time, she'd decided I definitely had a problem, so she began what she called an "infertility workup." The main thing was to check my Fallopian tubes for blockages and look for ovulatory abnormalities. But everything turned out to be fine. Depression City. 
"Well," she said, "maybe your body just thinks you've released an ovum. We need to do an ultrasound scan to make doubly sure an ovarian follicle has ruptured when it's sched­uled to...  out, however, that all those hormonal stop-and-go signals were working just fine. In the meantime, Steve and I were doing it like bunnies and still no pregnancy. 
Okay, she then declared, the problem may be with your Fallopian tubes after all. Time to test for abnormalities. "This is not going to be fun. First we have to dilate your cervix, after which we inject a dye and follow it with X-rays as it moves through the uterus and is ejected out of your Fallopian tubes. We'll know right away if there's any kind of blockage. If there is something, we can go in and fix it." 
"Don't—" He mumbled some words, but I think the seda­tive the nurses had given him was seriously starting to kick "Look, you can call down to 26 Federal Plaza tomorrow. See what they can do. In the meantime, let me follow my nose." 
He tried to answer, but he was too far gone. I then watched wistfully as he disappeared down the sterile alley of beds. 
After I stopped by the desk and helped them fill out the insurance forms, I caught a cab downtown to retrieve my Toyota. The time was now two-fifteen in the morning, but I still had plenty to do. When I got home, the first thing I did after I walked in the door was grab a phone book and call American Airlines. They had a flight, in the morning at nine-thirty. I gave them my credit card specifics and made a res­ervation. 
I no longer thought that Alex Goddard's Children of Light and its Guatemalan accomplices were merely doing some­thing shady. My hunch now was that it was completely ille­gal. They were getting hundreds of white babies in some way that couldn't bear the light of day, and they were prepared to do whatever it took to prevent me from highlighting them in my film. And with the Army involved, and now Sarah taken, their game was beginning to feel more and more like kidnapping. They certainly knew how. 
“It wasn’t my fault,” I said. “They brought napalm. Or something napalm-like. Has someone called it in yet?” 
“Checking,” he said. “Aw, Arthur would be proud, you bringing in the authorities. This time of year LA’s a tinderbox; it’s not a bad idea.” 
That hadn’t been what I meant, but I didn’t correct him. “It’s just north of the 263, off the Puesta del Sol exit.” 
“Found it. Yeah, we’ve got fire department. And police, and...” He trailed off, a frown in the last words. 
“What?” 
“From what I can tell, the cops are being superseded by someone else. I can’t see who.” 
“NSA?” 
“I don’t know. Who attacked you? Who were these guys?” 
“The same ones who ran Arthur and me off the road, I’m assuming,” I said. I finished my rudimentary first-aid, leaned back, and flexed my hand against the bandaging. Painful, but I had my whole range of motion. 
“Did you get their pictures for me? License plate numbers?” 
Fuck. I hadn’t even thought of that stuff. Like I always told Arthur, I was a shit detective. 
“Arthur! Arthur, no, that’s—that’s not you talking; that’s—forget it. Have you talked to Checker about this yet?” 
He sighed. “I can’t reach him.” 
I was suddenly having trouble breathing. “You can’t reach him?” 
“No. It’s strange, you know? He usually answers. I can’t reach...I can’t reach anybody.” 
Oh, crap. Oh, fuck. How had I not thought of this before? Shit, I had mentioned Checker in my generous tell-all to Dawna, and I had only just met him. Arthur worked with him all the time. 
“Arthur,” I said carefully. “Don’t freak out, but did Dawna ask you about Checker?” Would it matter? Could she have seen everything anyway, whether or not she had asked? 
“No,” Arthur answered. “Well, not until after I mentioned him. She was real interested. He’s a heck of a guy, you know?” 
“Oh, no.” I pushed back the blankets and scrambled up. “Oh, God.” 
“Russell, stop! What are you doing? You can’t get up!” 
“The hell I can’t.” I tore the medical tape off the back of my hand and slid out the IV, ignoring the dark blood that welled up. It would clot. “We have to find him. Now.” 
The mean boy was there, right in front of her, and she could smell the chili crisps on his breath. “You disgusting whore—” he began and she kneed him square in the nadgers, hard as she could, and he screamed like a little girl and fell backwards. She picked up her schoolbag and ran for the door, her chest heaving, her face streaked with tears. 
“Anda, dear, there’s a phone call for you.” 
Her eyes stung. She’d been lying in her darkened bedroom for hours now, snuffling and trying not to cry, trying not to look at the empty desk where her PC used to live. 
Her da’s voice was soft and caring, but after the silence of her room, it sounded like a rusting hinge. 
“Anda?” 
She opened her eyes. He was holding a cordless phone, sillhouetted against the open doorway. 
“Who is it?” 
“Someone from your game, I think,” he said. He handed her the phone. 
“Hullo?” 
“Hullo chicken.” It had been a year since she’d heard that voice, but she recognised it instantly. 
“Liza?” 
“Yes.” 
Anda’s skin seemed to shrink over her bones. This was it: expelled. Her heart felt like it was beating once per second, time slowed to a crawl. 
Becker doesn't possess the context to make sense of them. "People were killing each other a long time before the Lilaikens showed up. " 
Becker scowls. "Not on my watch, they weren't." 
"This wasn't done by Lilaiken separatists," Ray responds, frowning. Dead kid or not, it's what is uppermost in his mind. That is the extent of Ray's responsibility, not nosing over carcasses with the Sec Chief. "Even if we stipulate that the kid had some kid of target value, they would have found a better way to dispose of the corpse. And, they wouldn't have mutilated the body. They're political terrorists, not monsters." 
"You're certain of that?" 
Something in Becker's tone nags at him, accuses him. "You believe this is some sort of statement? What would the content of such a message be from the Lilaikens, Rich? 'Look! We're not afraid to hack up kids to get our point across'? It's an untenable argument. They don't gain anything from a gesture this mentally disturbed. " 
"Of course, it's not nearly as rational as blowing up starships." 
But Lexy didn’t even answer. 
After all, Lexy’s search for Charles Houseman was neither difficult nor heroic, except in intention. She found him in the Lymewell Hospital. Joe told her where he was, and Joe took her there. 
Houseman himself was rigidly determined not to be heroic. He had refused to go to bed, and Lexy found him in a bare, whitewashed waiting room, where he sat on a bench. 
“Just came in to get the hand dressed,” he said. “I’ll go back with you now.” 
The doctor advised him not to, but Charles was not very susceptible to advice. He wished to be entirely casual and matter-of-fact, and Lexy tried to humor him. They stood together in the hall of the hospital while a nurse went to get him a bottle of lotion from the dispensary, and he talked in what he intended to be an offhand manner; but Lexy could see that he was in pain, and almost exhausted, and his hair was all on end. 
Somehow, that was the thing she couldn’t bear—that his hair should be so ruffled. She could respect his determination to ignore the throbbing anguish of his hand, she would, if he liked, pretend that there was nothing at all tragic or unusual in the night’s adventure; but his hair— The nurse returned with the bottle, gave him directions for its use, and told him sternly that he must come back the next morning for a dressing. 
"It's Maya." The man turned him around, met his eyes with his bottomless basset-hound gaze. "It's Maya. Killed herself. In Guatemala. I'm sorry, Greg." 
Greg seemed to hurtle away from himself, to a place miles above, a Google Earth view of the Googleplex, looking down on himself and the rumpled man as a pair of dots, two pixels, tiny and insignificant. He willed himself to tear at his hair, to drop to his knees and weep. 
From a long way away, he heard himself say, "I don't need any time off. I'm OK." 
From a long way away, he heard the rumpled man insist. 
But one-pixel Greg wouldn't be turned aside. The argument persisted for a long time, and then the two pixels moved into Building 49 and the door swung shut behind them. 
It was unthinkable that the invisible ants that governed all human endeavor should catastrophically fail, but fail they did, catastrophically, on the occasion of Trish's eighth date with Damian. It took nineteen seconds for the cascade of errors to slow every car on the Interstate to a halt, to light up the dashboard with a grim xmas tree of errors, to still the stereo and freeze the tickers of information and context that they had come to think of as the crawling embodiment of the colony that routed all the traffic that made up their universe. 
“OK,” he said. 
“Simple as that?” 
“Exactly. Simple as that. Can’t have you having bad dreams, and I’ve paid my dues. From now on, I’m only going on night call to cover holidays.” 
She laughed. “Sysadmins don’t take holidays.” 
“This one will,” he said. “Promise.” 
“Oh that he is,” she said. She hung up, and he piloted the car into the data-center lot, badging in and peeling up a bleary eyelid to let the retinal scanner get a good look at his sleep-depped eyeball. 
He stopped at the machine to get himself a guarana/medafonil power-bar and a cup of...  clean-room sippy-cup. He wolfed down the bar...  inner door read his hand-geometry and size him up for a moment. It sighed open and gusted the airlock’s load of positively pressurized air over him as he passed finally to the inner sanctum. 
It was bedlam. The cages were designed to let two or three sysadmins maneuver around them at a time. Every other inch of cubic space was given over to humming racks of servers and routers and drives. Jammed among them were no fewer than twenty other sysadmins. It was a regular convention of black tee-shirts with inexplicable slogans, bellies overlapping belts with phones and multitools. 
Geography becomes a sickly, greenish mottle sliced by gridlines and a peripheral scroll of compass points and tactical information. Just above his blind spot, left edge, a computer simulation tracks his squad of seven as orange, prokaryote blobs ranged around the yellow sliver that's supposed to represent him. He jumps the  display from light enhanced night vision to infrared with a sub-vocalized command. There are no heat signatures outside the ambient glow of the desert bleeding stored sunshine and the pulsating forms of Marines. 
Just a quick glimpse, then he flips back so he can actually see where he's going. 
The narrow canyon, really just a sandblasted gully of tight switchbacks and wind carved angles as treacherous as swords, is different than the model generated by satellite images. It always is. Deeper in real life, more solid, the sides sheer and devoid of rugged features that might provide footholds and grips. It's one way in, 
one way out territory, a reduced scale model of a wild west box canyon. Seeing it, Ray's guts twist into a knot. 
"Alan, look," I yelled, and pointed off to the side, out through the rain-obscured windscreen. "I think we just passed over something. Back there. See?" 
"Where?" He squinted. 
"You can still just make it out." I twisted and kept pointing. I was biting my lip, trying to hold together. "There . . . it looks like some kind of clearing. Maybe . . . I don't know, but what if we just set down there and let this storm blow over?" 
He ordered Villatoro to bank and go back for a look. A few moments later it was obvious there was an opening in the trees. 
"Yeah, let's check it out." He then said something to Vil­latoro and we started easing toward it, definitely a wide open­ing. The billowing ocean of trees below us seemed to be parting like the Red Sea as we settled in. There had to be solid ground down there somewhere. Had to be. 
"What's . . ." I was pointing. "There, over to the side, it's a kind of hill or something. It's—" 
I was staring out, growing ever more puzzled. A "hill" was there, all right. The problem was, it was definitely man-made, topped by a stone building. I could just make it out in the glare of the lights. 
Laughter echoed in my memory with an edge of maliciousness, a scrawny dark-skinned girl arrogantly twirling a voltmeter across her fingers— Dammit. Stop wasting time. I rechecked the wiring, trying to estimate a probability calculation of the likelihood I was missing something, but there were too many unknowns. No help; I had to go for it. 
I put my hand on the chain. Took a deep breath. I probably wasn’t about to get blown up. 
Probably. 
What the fuck are you doing? 
For an instant the errant thought felt like another pointless scrap of memory, a voice from the endless past. But no. The vast net of explosives surrounding me suddenly mocked my nonchalance, bearing down on me with the weight of what I didn’t know, of how much I might have missed, that any tiny error would see me blasted into bloody fragments blended with bite-sized concrete. The brutal calculations spun through my senses, extrapolating just how I would die. 
I paused with my right hand gripping the cold links of the door chain, my palm against the metal going slick with sweat. This was a job like any other, I told myself. I always took risks for jobs. 
“I would like to discuss your discovery,” said Rio, “but first we must assure you are safely—” 
“What? Out of the way? That’s not your decision to make!” This was only the second time in memory I’d lost my temper toward Rio, and the first time had been caused by Dawna’s influence. “I get that you’re trying to look out for me or some other ridiculous notion, but that’s not your call. I’m angry—I’m furious —and guess what? I’m going to fight back. If the three of you aren’t in, then, God help me, I will figure out a way to go after them myself, and I will fucking win. And you—” I gesticulated at them wildly. “—can go and do whatever you want with your meaningless little lives, run if you want to, I don’t care, but I am thoroughly sick of trying to work together on this. So if you aren’t in, I’m done. I hope you all have nice lives.” 
The rain pounded against the walls, almost drowning out the city noise outside. No one spoke. 
“Was that supposed to be a motivational speech?” said Checker finally from the phone. 
“Well, please stop being sorry now,” requested Lexy firmly. 
“Right-o!” said he. “You won’t mind my saying you’ve been wonderfully nice about it?” 
“No, I don’t mind that a bit,” replied Lexy. “I like to be wonderfully nice.” 
There was a moment’s silence. 
“Will you allow me to introduce myself?” said the stranger. “Grey, you know—George Grey—Captain Grey, you know.” 
“Captain of a ship?” asked Lexy, with interest. She thought she would like to talk about ships. 
“Oh, no!” said he, rather shocked. “Army—British army—stationed in India.” 
“I knew you were an Englishman.” 
“Did you really?” said he, as if surprised. “People do seem to know. My first visit to your country—six months’ leave—so I’ve come here to see my sister—Mrs. Quelton. She’s married to an American doctor.” 
Lexy thought there was something almost pathetic in his chivalrous anxiety to explain himself. 
“I’m Alexandra Moran,” she said. 
“Thank you!” said Captain Grey. “Thank you very much, Miss Moran!” 
There was no opportunity for further polite conversation, for the taxi had stopped and the driver came around to the door. 
"I don't know. Just a few weeks, I think." 
Her eyes bored in. "This woman, whoever she is, was very, very lucky. If what she says is true." 
"The organization that got the baby for her is called Chil­dren of Light," I went on. "That's all I know, really. I think it's up the Hudson somewhere, past the Cloisters. Have you ever heard of them?" 
"You can't mean it. Not that place. All that so-called New Age . . . are you really sure you want to get involved in something like that?" 
I found myself deeply confused. Were we talking about the same thing? Then I remembered Carly had said some­thing about an infertility clinic. 
"Frankly, nobody knows the first thing about that man," Hannah raged on. "All you get is hearsay. He's supposedly one of those alternative-medicine types, and a few people claim he's had some success, but it's all anecdotal. My own opinion is, it's what real physicians call the 'placebo effect.' If a patient believes hard enough something will happen, some of the time it actually might. For God's sake, I'm not even sure he's board-certified. Do yourself a favor and stay away. Oftentimes, people like that do more harm than good." Then her look turned inquisitive. "Did you say he's providing children for adoption now? That's peculiar. When did he start that?" 
“Captain Grey!” she cried, white to the lips. “I didn’t—” 
“I know,” he said gently. “You meant to help, and I’m glad you did it. She’s better dead. This afternoon, for a little while, she was—herself. She talked to me. She was very weak, but she was herself. She asked me to help her not to take it again. She thought she was getting better. Then that”—he paused—“that damned brute brought in a lawyer, so that she could make her will. She couldn’t believe it. She looked up at me. ‘Oh, I’m not going to die , am I?’ she said. Before I could answer her, he told her she must be prepared. Then I—” 
Again he turned away. 
“And you let him alone?” inquired Houseman. 
“It’s not time to settle with him—yet,” said the other. “That’s why I came away, because I don’t want to kill him—yet. She’s unconscious now. She will be, until it’s finished. I’m going back later, but I wanted to come, here—” He ceased speaking. “To you,” his eyes said to Lexy. 
She forgot everything else, then, except this tormented and suffering human being who had turned to her for comfort. She pushed him gently down into a chair, and seated herself on the arm of it. She took both his hands and patted them, while she racked her brain for the right thing to say. 
The USA was a pirate nation for the first 100 years of its existence, ripping off the patents and trademarks of the imperial European powers it had liberated itself from with blood. By keeping their GDP at home, the US revolutionaries were able to bootstrap their nation into an industrial powerhouse. Now, it seems, their descendants are bent on ensuring that no other country can pull the same trick off. 
The day the siege began, Valentine was at the cinema across the street from her building. The cinema had only grown the night before and when she got out of bed and saw it there, all gossamer silver supports and brave sweeping candy-apple red curves, she’d begged Mata and Popa to let her go. 
She knew that all the children in the building would spend the day there—didn’t the pack of them explore each fresh marvel as a group? The week before it had been the clever little flying cars that swooped past each other with millimeters to spare, like pigeons ripping over your head. Before that it had been the candy forest where the trees sprouted bon-bons and sticks of rock, and every boy and girl in the city had been there, laughing and eating until their bellies and sides ached. Before that, the swarms of robot insects that had gathered up every fleck of litter and dust and spirited it all away to the edge of town where they’d somehow chewed it up and made factories out of it, brightly colored and airy as an aviary....  Before that: the new apartment buildings. Before that: the new hospitals. Before that: the new government offices. 
"Kissing is gross," another boy pops in. "Why would he want to kiss her so much?" 
"I think kissing is dreamy. " This from a strawberry haired girl curled up on the floor with a doll and a plush  bear. "I like the kissing parts." 
John Robert rolls his eyes. "Adriana, you don't even know what 'dreamy' means." 
"I do so, John Robert." 
"Do not." 
"Yeah-huh." 
"He only kisses her 'cause her dad would have him put in prison if he blasted her. " A different boy this time, 
looking very thoughtful about his contribution to the discussion. 
But John Robert shakes his head. "Why would he care about that? He knows how to escape from the prison. 
Remember when Carok made that clone of King Tayne and kidnapped him? The clone put Shadow in the prison and he was only there for about five minutes before he escaped." 
It goes on. On and on, for almost fifteen minutes while the episode they had intended to watch clamors on in the background, unnoticed. Ray pitches in where he can get a word, not certain whether he's inciting them or settling some of the more finely nuanced points of contention. He attempts to argue the pro-kissing position, 
I still felt wretched, but that almost got a laugh out of me. 
“Now, humor me, Cas. Take me through your discussion with her. I don’t believe there is any cause for concern.” 
Now that I was awake, the hours passed slowly. I discovered I detested convalescing. It was extremely boring. The one saving grace was that I was still technically on a job, at least enough to satisfy my messed-up brain. Despite Rio’s and my discussion about what had gone down with Dawna, I still hadn’t talked to him or Arthur about what our next step would be regarding Pithica. 
Of course, Rio still wanted me off the case. Ordinarily someone else’s objections wouldn’t have stopped me, but I had a sneaking thread of suspicion that he was right, that dealing with Pithica truly was out of my league. I’d never felt that way before, and I didn’t like it. 
Presumably, Rio was still going after Dawna himself, but he wasn’t telling us about it. Arthur, meanwhile, was mired in some sort of guilty cognitive dissonance between what Dawna had convinced him of at first and what she had inherently convinced him of later by trying to have me killed in front of him, and seemed perfectly content to hover over me as I recovered. He spent a lot of time on his phone, too, though I never heard him reach anyone. 
He pulled a file folder from among the...  Could be more we ain’t hit yet. You don’t mind, me and Penny’ll keep digging on this.” 
“Sure,” I said, surprised. It was the first time he’d said something like that in all the times I’d hired him. “If you think there’s more to find, go for it. Usual rate.” I opened the file and gave it a cursory glance—the contents were puzzlingly varied; I’d have to sit down with it later. 
“I bet we get more,” said Penny optimistically, hopping back up on her dad’s chair and rolling it over to a computer keyboard. “Hey, Cas! I cracked an IRS database yesterday. All by myself!” 
“She’s got the talent,” murmured Anton in his quiet, gravelly way, but anyone could see he was glowing with pride. 
“Nice job,” I told Penny. “Too bad you don’t pay taxes.” 
“Well, Daddy does, but he told me not to change anything. I want to try some White House systems next.” 
I turned to Anton in surprise. “You pay taxes?” 
“I use this country’s services,” he said. “I pay the taxes them people we elected says I owe. Only fair.” 
"Turn him on his side and tell me if he starts to choke," she said, and turned to the little boy, struggling to remember her rescue breathing. 
She got the boy breathing and ended up with more puke on her face, on Damian's jacket, in her hair. His pulse was thready but there. She turned to the swimmer and saw that he was a muscular surfer dude in board shorts with a couple of bitchun tatts and a decent body-paint job. He was breathing, too, but his heart was erratic as hell. She pressed two fingers to his throat. 
"What happened?" she said. "Who saw it happen?" 
One of the aunts stepped forward and said, "My son says they were playing --" 
She held up her hand. "Where's your son?" she said. 
"He's back at the house," the aunt said, startling back. 
"Send someone for him, then tell me what happened." 
The aunt looked like she'd been slapped, but the other Relatives were staring at her and so she had to talk, and then the boy arrived and he told it again and it was pretty much the same story, but she was able to get more details, as she began to examine both the boy and the surfer's bodies for cuts, bruises, breaks and punctures. She gave the boy's clothes the same treatment she'd given her own, gently but forcefully tearing them off, using a seashell to start the tears at first, then a pocket-knife that someone put in her hand. 
I backed down. He could expel me for "threatening behavior." It was supposed to be used against gang kids who tried to intimidate their teachers. But of course he wouldn't have any compunctions about using it on me. 
"Yes," I said. "I know what it means." 
"I think you owe me an apology," he said. 
I looked at him. He was barely suppressing his sadistic smile. A part of me wanted to grovel. It wanted to beg for his forgiveness for all my shame. I tamped that part down and decided that I would rather get kicked out than apologize. 
"Governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed, that whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it, and to institute new government, laying its foundation on such principles, and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness." I remembered it word for word. 
He shook his head. "Remembering things isn't the same as understanding them, sonny." He bent over his computer and made some clicks. His printer purred. He handed me a sheet of warm Board letterhead that said I'd been suspended for two weeks. 
"Van!" I called, getting to my feet and chasing after her. "Van! Wait!" 
She picked up speed, making me run to catch up with her. 
"Van, what the hell," I said, catching her arm. She jerked it away so hard I punched myself in the face. 
"You're psycho, Marcus. You're going to put all your little Xnet buddies in danger for their lives, and on top of it, you're going to turn the whole city into terrorism suspects. Can't you stop before you hurt these people?" 
I opened and closed my mouth a couple times. "Van, I'm not the problem, they are. I'm not arresting people, jailing them, making them disappear. The Department of Homeland Security are the ones doing that. I'm fighting back to make them stop." 
"How, by making it worse?" 
"Maybe it has to get worse to get better, Van. Isn't that what you were saying? If everyone was getting pulled over --" 
"That's not what I meant. I didn't mean you should get everyone arrested. If you want to protest, join the protest movement. Do something positive. Didn't you learn anything from Darryl? Anything? " 
They ended up just unplugging the frigging routers from the Internet. Not Felix, of course, though he was itching to do it and get them rebooted after shutting down their IPv6 interfaces. It was done by a couple bull-goose Bastard Operators From Hell who had to turn two keys at once to get access to their cage—like guards in a Minuteman silo. 95 percent of the long distance traffic in Canada went through this building. It had better security than most Minuteman silos. 
Felix and Van got the Ardent boxes back online one at a time. They were being pounded by worm-probes—putting the routers back online just exposed the downstream cages to the attack. Every box on the Internet was drowning in worms, or creating worm-attacks, or both. Felix managed to get through to NIST and Bugtraq after about a hundred timeouts, and download some kernel patches that should reduce the load the worms put on the machines in his care. It was 10AM, and he was hungry enough to eat the ass out of a dead bear, but he recompiled his kernels and brought the machines back online. Van’s long fingers flew over the administrative keyboard, his tongue protruding as he ran load-stats on each one. 
"There," she said, pointing at an apartment building across the way. "There, you see it? With the broken windows?" He saw it, the windows covered in cardboard. "They took them away last week. I don't know why. You never know why. You become a person of interest and they take you away and then later, they always find a reason to keep you away." 
Lawrence's hackles were coming up. He found stuff that didn't belong in the data -- he didn't arrest people. "So if they always find a reason to keep you away, doesn't that mean --" 
She looked like she wanted to slap him and he took a step back. "We're all guilty of something, Lawrence. That's how the game is rigged. Look closely at anyone's life and you'll find, what, a little black-marketeering, a copyright infringement, some cash economy business with unreported income, something obscene in your Internet use, something in your bloodstream that shouldn't be there. I bought that sofa from a cop , Lawrence, bought it ten years ago when he was leaving the building. He didn't give me a receipt and didn't collect tax, and technically that makes us offenders." She slapped the radiator. "I overrode the governor on this ten minutes after they installed it. Everyone does it. They make it easy -- you just stick a penny between two contacts and hey presto, the city can't turn your heat down anymore. They wouldn't make it so easy if they didn't expect everyone to do it -- and once everyone's done it, we're all guilty. 
There was a moment of silence. Then I snorted out a laugh. “You’re putting me on.” 
“I assure you I am not.” 
“That’s ridiculous. Telepathy doesn’t exist,” I informed him. 
“Please explain,” said Tresting. 
Steve opened his mouth, and the pounding in my head resurged—this time along with a visceral, shriveling dread. More than anything else in the world, I wanted him not to explain. 
“Some people are born into this world with certain talents,” said Steve, his baritone as calm and deliberate as ever. “People who are...one might call them emotional geniuses. Charismatic brilliance on the furthest edge of the bell curve. Under normal circumstances, some of them become the most successful of businessmen. Others are con artists. Others movie stars or cult leaders or the greatest politicians of their time. Believe me when I say that only a handful of people in a generation have this capacity on the level of which I am speaking.” 
No. I wasn’t going to take this seriously. I didn’t care how emotionally adept someone was; she was still human. 
The man who came in was wearing a military uniform. A US military uniform. He saluted the people in the truck and they saluted him back and that's when I knew that I wasn't a prisoner of some terrorists -- I was a prisoner of the United States of America. 
They set up a little screen at the end of the truck and then came for us one at a time, unshackling us and leading us to the back of the truck. As close as I could work it -- counting seconds off in my head, one hippopotami, two hippopotami -- the interviews lasted about seven minutes each. My head throbbed with...  
I was third, brought back by the woman with the severe haircut. Up close, she looked tired, with bags under her eyes and grim lines at the corners of her mouth. 
"Thanks," I said, automatically, as she unlocked me with a remote and then dragged me to my feet. I hated myself for the automatic politeness, but it had been drilled into me. 
She didn't twitch a muscle. I went ahead of her to the back of the truck and behind the screen. There was a single folding chair and I sat in it. Two of them -- Severe Haircut woman and utility belt man -- looked at me from their ergonomic super-chairs. 
The ship moved. A hint of salt air made its way into the hood. It was drizzling and my clothes were heavy with water. I was outside, even if my head was in a bag. I was outside, in the world, moments from my freedom. 
They came for me and led me off the boat and over uneven ground. Up three metal stairs. My wrists were unshackled. My hood was removed. 
I was back in the truck. Severe haircut woman was there, at the little desk she'd sat at before. She had a ziploc bag with her, and inside it were my phone and other little devices, my wallet and the change from my pockets. She handed them to me wordlessly. 
I filled my pockets. It felt so weird to have everything back in its familiar place, to be wearing my familiar clothes. Outside the truck's back door, I heard the familiar sounds of my familiar city. 
A guard passed me my backpack. The woman extended her hand to me. I just looked at it. She put it down and gave me a wry smile. Then she mimed zipping up her lips and pointed to me, and opened the door. 
He was saying...he was saying the proof Martinez had written, the proof, might’ve been nothing but nonsense. She might have burned all her senseless scribbles in a fit of madness and then stolen her friend’s legitimate work because her illness had imagined demons. 
It was too much. I didn’t even know what to feel. Nothing was real. “You don’t think she ever had the proof,” I murmured. The words sounded robotic. Mechanical. 
I wasn’t looking at him, but I felt him shrug. “Don’t know. Likely we’ll never know.” 
The room suddenly felt too close. I pushed myself up. My equilibrium wobbled as I teetered onto my feet, but I found my balance. 
“Russell,” said Arthur, standing as well. 
“Yeah?” 
“Dr. Martinez. If you want to visit with her, they’re letting us.” 
“What’s the point?” I asked. 
“Say goodbye?” 
“I didn’t know her that well.” And she’d destroyed me. She’d given me hope, then snatched it away. 
“Up to you,” Arthur said after a moment. 
I said okay. But only because I owed him. 
Martinez looked positively tiny in the hospital bed, old and desiccated and almost alien, like a mummy who had been dug up and wrapped in white sheets. I stood with Arthur by her bedside. Halliday was sitting in a chair next to her head, holding one of her limp hands. 
“Wednesday I came home and—there was no sign someone had broken in, nothing,” Halliday answered. “But all of my notebooks were gone. Just gone.” 
“What about your computer?” I asked. 
She shook her head. “I work in longhand. I was only just now going back through the proof to rewrite it for publication—so many years, so many dead ends and notes, and...they took it all. I went back to my office immediately and found my work here cleaned out, too. Even though none of it was relevant to the factorization problem, they still took everything. And the next morning I found the note.” 
“I’ll go by your house in a few hours with some equipment,” said Arthur. “And then we’ll come back and look at your office again. Don’t handle nothing you ain’t touched already.” 
Halliday made an abortive gesture at the books and papers surrounding her. “I have to...my work—” 
“Can wait,” Arthur said. 
“He’s right,” I put in. “Take the day off, go have a stiff drink or three. We’ll call you.” 
He gave me a funny look, but addressed Professor Halliday instead. “Sonya, she’s right....  calm. We’ll figure this out.” 
"Board certified. Do very well, too." 
He swallowed. "I don't expect to make money for doing nothing, but you know, I just quit my job. I was just hoping to get a little cash in hand to help me smooth things out until I find a new one." 
The realtor gave a small nod. "Tough times ahead. Winds are about to shift again. You need to adjust your expectations, Leon. The best you can hope for right now is to get out of that place before you have to make another mortgage payment." 
His pulse throbbed in his jaw and his thigh in counterpoint. "But I need money to --" 
"Leon," she said, with some steel in her voice. "You're bargaining . As in denial, anger, bargaining, depression and acceptance. That's healthy and all, but it's not going to get your place sold. Here's two options: one, you can go find another realtor, maybe one who'll sugar coat things or string you along to price up something else he's trying to sell. Two, you can let me get on with making some phone calls and I'll see who I can bring in. I keep a list of people I'd like to see in this 'hood, people who've asked me to look out for the right kind of place. That place you're in is one of a kind. I might be able to take it off your hands in very quick time, if you let me do my thing." She shuffled some papers. "Oh, there's a third, which is that you could go back to your apartment and pretend that nothing is wrong until that next mortgage payment comes out of your bank-account. That would be denial and if you're bargaining, you should be two steps past that. 
“They weren’t very happy to see me,” Robbie admitted. “That’s why I wanted to have a chat with them before I went back.” 
“You shouldn’t go back,” the distant voice said. Robbie tried to work out where its substrate was, based on the lightspeed lag, but it was all over the place, leading him to conclude that it was synching multiple instances from as close as LEO and as far as Jupiter. The topology made sense: you’d want a big mass out at Jupiter where you could run very fast and hot and create policy, and you’d need a local foreman to oversee operations on the ground. Robbie was glad that this hadn’t been phrased as an order. The talmud on the second law made a clear distinction between statements like “you should do this” and “I command you to do this.” 
“Do you know how to reach them?” Robbie said. “A phone number, an email address?” 
“There’s a newsgroup,” the distant intelligence said. “alt.lifeforms.uplifted.coral. It’s where I planned the uplifting and it was where they went first once they woke up. I haven’t read it in many seconds.” 
“What were you doing out there?” Tweak was standing at the refrigerator. 
“Somebody said there was more beer on the back porch, get- ting cold,” I improvised. “There wasn’t.” 
“Just you getting cold.” He laughed at me as I rubbed my arms and shivered, then he handed me a beer. Just what I needed, a cold beverage. I carried it out to the front room and handed it to some- one else. I checked my phone. “Crap!” I blurted without thinking. 
“What’s the matter?” Simon was acting friendly again, all con- cerned. 
“Almost curfew. I gotta go.” Getting stopped by cops now would really mess things up. 
“I’m heading out, too.” Simon grabbed his coat, bumped fists with people, pointed a finger gun at Danny and said “We’ll talk.” 
Then he caught up with me as I went out on the porch. “How are you getting home?” 
“I have my bike.” It was dark, but the lights of the highway not far away cast a purple glow in the sky. If I rode fast, I might make it to Francis Bernadette McSweeney’s house before curfew - barely. 
I felt like I might throw up again. God, my poor folks. What they must have gone through. 
"Are they here?" 
"No," she said. "It's complicated," she said. 
"What?" 
"You're still under arrest, Marcus. Everyone here is. They can't just sweep in and throw open the doors. Everyone here is going to have to be processed through the criminal justice system. It could take, well, it could take months." 
"I'm going to have to stay here for months ?" 
She grabbed my hands. "No, I think we're going to be able to get you arraigned and released on bail pretty fast. But pretty fast is a relative term. I wouldn't expect anything to happen today. And it's not going to be like those people had it. It will be humane. There will be real food. No interrogations. Visits from your family. 
"Just because the DHS is out, it doesn't mean that you get to just walk out of here. What's happened here is that we're getting rid of the bizarro-world version of the justice system they'd instituted and replacing it with the old system. The system with judges, open trials and lawyers. 
Watching her pack was impressive. She was ruthless about it all. It was also freaky -- it made me realize that the next day, I was going to go away. Maybe for a long time. Maybe forever. 
"Do I bring my Xbox?" she asked. "I've got a ton of stuff on the hard-drive, notes and sketches and email. I wouldn't want it to fall into the wrong hands." 
"It's all encrypted," I said. "That's standard with ParanoidXbox. But leave the Xbox behind, there'll be plenty of them in LA. Just create a Pirate Party account and email an image of your hard-drive to yourself. I'm going to do the same when I get home." 
She did so, and queued up the email. It was going to take a couple hours for all the data to squeeze through her neighbor's WiFi network and wing its way to Sweden. 
Then she closed the flap on the bag and tightened the compression straps. She had something the size of a soccer-ball slung over her back now, and I stared admiringly at it. She could walk down the street with that under her shoulder and no one would look twice -- she looked like she was on her way to school. 
"You could apologize," Ethan said. Adele took his hand and wiped at her tears with its back. 
"Fuck off, zombie," Grampa said, glaring at him. 
Sean's father stood abruptly. "I'm glad to see you're in good health, Pop," he said. "Sean, thanks for the ride. I guess I'll see you once you've finished your research." His face was hard, composed. "Adele, nice to have met you." 
"Likewise," Adele said. 
"Bye, then," Sean's father said, and walked with dignified calm to the elevator. 
"Bye, Dad," Sean called softly at his retreating back. 
He turned back to Grampa, but Grampa's eyes were dull, and he was methodically twitching, top-to-bottom. 
"Adele," Sean said, taking her free hand. 
"Yes?" she said. 
"How would you and Ethan like to come to Universal with me for the afternoon?" 
"I'd love to," Ethan said. Sean looked at Ethan, and couldn't decide if he was switched off or not. 
Whichever, Adele didn't seem to mind. 
The NYPD Domestic Security Task Force executed its no-knock warrant against Annalisa Mor at 8:17PM on the evening of June 3, 2013. Working the ram were three stout officers in none-more-black nanopore body-armor and bulletproof boots, their goggles crowded with information-dense telemetry from an extensive array of sensors embedded on their persons and hovering aerostatically around the 16th floor of the midtown student-residence in which Mor dwelled. 
Arturo gave him a hard shake. “Stop it, now ,” he said. “I have questions for you and you’re going to answer them, capeesh?” 
“You’re Ada’s father,” the kid said. “Capeesh—she told me about that.” It seemed to Arturo that the kid was smirking, so he gave him another shake, harder than the last time. 
The R Peed unit was suddenly at his side, holding his wrist. “Please take care not to harm this citizen, Detective.” 
Arturo snarled. He wasn’t strong enough to break the robot’s grip, and he couldn’t order it to let him rattle the punk, but the second law had lots of indirect applications. “Go patrol the lakeshore between High Park and Kipling,” he said, naming the furthest corner he could think of off the top. 
The R Peed unit released him and clicked its heels. “It is my pleasure to do you a service,” and then it was gone, bounding away on powerful and tireless legs. 
“Where is my daughter?” he said, giving the kid a shake. 
“I dunno, school? You’re really hurting my arm, man. Jeez, this is what I get for being too friendly.” 
Jolu swore and then Vanessa cut loose in Korean, something she only did when she was really, really angry. 
"I'm going to get them," I whispered, staring at my soda. "I'm going to get them." 
Jolu shook his head. "You can't, you know. You can't fight back against that." 
None of us much wanted to talk about revenge then. Instead, we talked about what we would do next. We had to go home. Our phones' batteries were dead and it had been years since this neighborhood had any payphones. We just needed to go home. I even thought about taking a taxi, but there wasn't enough money between us to make that possible. 
So we walked. On the corner, we pumped some quarters into a San Francisco Chronicle newspaper box and stopped to read the front section. It had been five days since the bombs went off, but it was still all over the front cover. 
Severe haircut woman had talked about "the bridge" blowing up, and I'd just assumed that she was talking about the Golden Gate bridge, but I was wrong. The terrorists had blown up the Bay bridge . 
“Everything he said? People should already know that stuff. 
They’re just not paying attention.” 
Monica rolled her eyes at Thai Guy. “This is what I live with.” 
“But she is right. People should pay more attention,” he said. 
“Oh, great. Take her side,” she joked. “Did you find your friend, Zen?” 
“Yeah, but ...” I almost said “I need to go do homework,” 
which would have made Monica give me one of those looks, like “yeah, right. What are you really up to?” So instead I said, “I’m going to head out. It’s bugging me that everybody’s clapping and cheering and making speeches while Wilson is locked up in there, 
wearing one of those weird orange jumpsuits in a tiny cell where you can’t even take a dump in private.” 
“The food is very bad, too,” Thai Guy said. “Last year I was arrested at a protest. Luckily I was in the jail for only one night. I met many interesting people.” 
“So I’m going to go. Nice to meet you . . . Novak,” I finished, 
just barely avoiding saying Thai Guy. When I glanced back to turn a corner, I saw Monica was still watching me, still looking worried. She could probably tell I needed to chill out, but it wasn’t because my brother was in jail. I was desperate to know what Wheeze had written on that crumpled piece of paper. 
That wasn’t what I had expected him to say. “No. No, I don’t. The thing is, I realized—I don’t care. I really don’t care. I don’t feel bad about it. I don’t feel any different. And it’s so much easier.” 
“Okay,” said Arthur. 
“‘Okay?’ I go back to killing people willy-nilly again and that’s all you have to say to me?” 
The bartender put down our next two shots so hastily they sloshed over his wrists before he retreated into the back and out of sight. 
Arthur made a shushing gesture and peered around the near-empty dive to see if I’d freaked out anyone else. “Ain’t saying I’m happy about it, but...well, I ain’t believe the ‘willy-nilly,’ first off. Thing is, Russell, you might say you don’t care, but I know for a fact you ain’t no killer. Don’t like you taking no hard line again, but I still got faith you only charging the guilty.” 
“And if I’m not?” 
He spun on his stool to lean back against the bar. “Well, that’s what I’m here for, ain’t it?” 
I tried to maintain a belligerent facade, but I’d never been good at bluffing. 
And he was listening in . 
I didn't say a word. Didn't even bother to turn off my phone. I just ran , ran as hard as I could, ran as only a terrified man could, rebounding off of yurts and even scrambling over a few, sliding down on my ass as I pelted for the power substation. It was only when I reached it that I realized I didn't have access to it anymore. Johanna was right behind me, though, and she seemed to understand what I was doing. She coughed into the door-lock and we both looked at each other with terrified eyes, breathing gasps into each others' faces, while we waited for the door to open. 
The manual override wasn't a big red knife-switch or anything. There was a huge red button, but that just sent an init 0 to the power-station's firmware. The actual, no fooling, manual, mechanical kill switch was locked behind an access panel set into the raised floor. Johanna badged the lock with her wallet, slapping it across the reader, then fitted a complicated physical key into the lock and fiddled with it for an eternity. 
There weren’t many spots on campus as private as this, and this was the only one where people wouldn’t think it was totally weird for me to be there. 
I knew this because I had stopped by the college’s campus security office and chatted with a student who worked there, pre- tending to ask about getting a parking permit that I didn’t actually need because I don’t have a driver’s license. Or a car. There was a wall of screens that he was supposed to be watching, even though he had his head down, marking a textbook with a highlighter. 
People would cross the screens from different angles, not aware that someone was getting paid to catch them picking their noses or scratching their butts. Some of the cameras were indoors, 
pointed at the cashiers at the cafeteria and the bookstore. Others were in a computer lab, which I had used once when I forgot my power cord. I never went back there again. The student worker was bored so I got him to tell me about all kinds of stuff, from the unfair way he always got stuck working on Friday nights to the fact that they didn’t have the budget to cover the whole campus, 
And then the pundit was off onto ants -- networks modeled on ant-colonies that use virtual pheromones to explore all possible routes in realtime and emerge a solution to the problem of getting everything, everywhere, in shortest time. Damian kept barking at the TV, and Trish knew he was doing it to entertain her as much as for any reason, so she...  TV cut back to the news-dude, who was a very cuddly ewok who'd made his name hosting a wheel-of-fortune, jumping up and down and squeaking excitedly and adorably whenever a contestant won the grand prize, his fur-plugs quivering. He cupped his paws to his cheeks and grinned. 
"But ants aren't perfect, are they?" the ewok said. 
"He's feeding her!" Damian said. "She's going to go off on her stupid walking-in-circles bit --" 
"The thing about using wirtual ants to map out the vorld and make routing recommendations is that ve can't really tell the difference betveen a good solution and a bad vun, without trying it. Sometimes, ants end up valking in circles, reinforcing their scent, until they starve to death. Ve might find that our cars tell us that the best vay from San Francisco to San Jose is via a 1500 mile detour to Las Wegas. It may be true -- if all the traffic eweryvhere else is bad enough, that might be the fastest vay, but it may just be the ants going in circles." 
"I don't believe this." I marched back into the living room and reached for the lights. This room too had been turned upside down. The TV, stereo, VCR, all had been swept onto the rug. But they were still there. That guy, that animal, who did this wasn't a thief. He'd been looking for something. 
My breath now coming in pulses, I edged into the bedroom and switched on the light. The bed was the way I'd left it, the covers thrown back and the pillows in a pile. The clock radio was there, and so was the old Mac, still on the table in the far corner, my "workstation." Again nothing seemed to be missing. 
I headed back to the kitchen, where the refrigerator door was still open. I gazed at the interior a moment, still puzzled, trying to figure out what wasn't right. . . . 
Shit! Shit! Shit! That's what was wrong. The field of white bottom shelf was empty. Totally empty. The film canister of Paula's interview was gone. 
For a moment I just leaned against the kitchen counter, barely pushing aside an impulse to throw up in the sink. Think, I told myself, get a grip and think. . . . 
Arturo sucked in a breath. “Leonard MacPherson, it is my duty as a UNATS Detective Third Grade to inform you that you are under arrest for trade in contraband positronics. You have the following rights: to a trial per current rules of due process; to be free from self-incrimination in the absence of a court order to the contrary; to consult with a Social Harmony advocate; and to a speedy arraignment. Do you understand your rights?” 
The Social Harmony man held up one finger on the hand closest to the black robot holding Ada, and she screamed, a sound that knifed through Arturo, ripping him from asshole to appetite. 
“STOP!” he shouted. The man put his finger down and Ada sobbed quietly. 
“I was taken to the safe house on the fifth of September, after being gassed by a Eurasian infowar robot in the basement of Fairview Mall—” 
There was a thunderclap then, a crash so loud that it hurt his stomach and his head and vibrated his fingertips. The doors to the room buckled and flattened, and there stood Benny and Lenny and—Natalie. 
"Yes, aunt Miranda, all born under Syrian skies." 
"Syrian grandmother!" ejaculated Miranda (and it was not a fact). "How many?" 
"I didn't think to ask; but I will get two rooms ready, and if there are any over I'll take 'em into my bed," said Rebecca, secretly hoping that this would be the case. "Now, as you're both half sick, couldn't you trust me just once to get ready for the company? You can come up when I call. Will you?" 
"I believe I will," sighed Miranda reluctantly. "I'll lay down side o' Jane in our bedroom and see if I can get strength to cook supper. It's half past three—don't you let me lay a minute past five. I kep' a good fire in the kitchen stove. I don't know, I'm sure, why I should have baked a pot o' beans in the middle of the week, but they'll come in handy. Father used to say there was nothing that went right to the spot with returned missionaries like pork 'n' beans 'n' brown bread. Fix up the two south chambers, Rebecca." 
Rebecca, given a free hand for the only time in her life, dashed upstairs like a whirlwind. Every room in the brick house was as neat as wax, and she had only to pull up the shades, go over the floors with a whisk broom, and dust the furniture. 
Fucking math. 
I stumbled back to the car. The metal of the door was already warm. I slid into the driver’s seat, wrenched the steering wheel around into a U-turn, and accelerated back the way we had come. We’d ditch this car a block or two from here in case any traffic cameras had glimpsed my vehicular stunts, then put some distance behind us before the authorities arrived. 
“Did they...are they...” Courtney asked timidly. 
“Dead.” My eyes and throat scratched from the smoke. 
A small sob escaped her. “Are you sure?” 
“I’m sure.” I couldn’t help wondering if it was her fault. 
Or mine. 
My mind buzzed. I’d contacted Anton a little over five hours ago—the traffic going into the city had held us up for a good chunk of time, but then I’d headed straight here. Five hours. Ample time to set this up, if someone had caught onto Anton’s search. If that someone happened to be motivated enough. 
I tried to tell myself Anton’s work had encompassed a multitude of other projects, any of which might have generated enemies. Whoever had targeted him had overcompensated like fuck to take all of his data and information with him, but even so, a case from months or years ago might have provoked this. Some old client with a grudge. This didn’t have to be because of what I’d brought him. 
Now I wanted to go farther. I found the hem of her t-shirt and tugged. She put her hands over her head and pulled back a few inches. I knew that she'd do that. I'd known since the night in the park. Maybe that's why we hadn't gone farther -- I knew I couldn't rely on her to back off, which scared me a little. 
But I wasn't scared then. The impending press-conference, the fights with my parents, the international attention, the sense that there was a movement that was careening around the city like a wild pinball -- it made my skin tingle and my blood sing. 
And she was beautiful, and smart, and clever and funny, and I was falling in love with her. 
Her shirt slid off, her arching her back to help me get it over her shoulders. She reached behind her and did something and her bra fell away. I stared goggle-eyed, motionless and breathless, and then she grabbed my shirt and pulled it over my head, grabbing me and pulling my bare chest to hers. 
We rolled on the bed and touched each other and ground our bodies together and groaned. She kissed all over my chest and I did the same to her. I couldn't breathe, I couldn't think, I could only move and kiss and lick and touch. 
leaving behind a cavity shaped exactly like the bit you had removed. 
He had loved it because it was delicious and fun. His mother had loved it because it took all of twenty minutes from biscuit can to cooling on the counter, which made it just about perfect for the endless round of church potlucks and community socials and small town Indiana public gatherings. 
Someone else has been making monkey bread. The Guinness record for world's largest monkey bread. 
The engineering crew is packed so tightly and in such shapes that the blood has not yet begun to seep out the door, but dribbles down the wall of packed flesh, down twisted arms and swollen faces, across bulging eyelids and ruptured chests into a small and spreading pool at Ray's feet. He licks his lips, sweating from the impossible heat generated by so much compressed mass. Bodies still cooling, as though the slaughter is just minutes old. He can only see because of the light through the open door. They've consumed all the available space and blotted out the ceiling lamps, the desk equipment, whatever else might have been inside. Wall to wall, floor to ceiling monkey bread. 
"You seem to have a lot of questions about what I'm doing here. So let me try and put my efforts into perspective. As I like to point out to women when they first come here, we in the West are making do with only half the world's medical knowledge. We ignore all of the East. There's also the wis­dom of the indigenous peoples here in the Western Hemi­sphere, the Native Americans. Who are we to say they don't have a lot to teach?" He smiled, as though embarrassed to be passing along such a commonplace. "For example, West­ern medical practice, virtually until this century, consisted mainly of using leeches to drain away 'humors' in the blood. At the same time, the indigenous peoples of this continent knew more about the curative powers of plants, even drugs, than Europe ever dreamed of. Yet they were deemed savages." 
I wasn't sure where he was leading, but the supreme self- confidence with which he spoke had the effect of sweeping me along. The engaging eyes, the voice, the well-used de­signer jacket, it all worked. He was good, very good. 
Captain Grey was sitting beside her in a low chair, holding one of her lifeless hands, and Lexy saw on his face such anguish as she had never looked upon before. 
“My dear!” he said again. 
Her weary eyes opened and looked up at him. Then the shadow of a smile crossed her face. 
“Stay!” she whispered. 
Lexy drew nearer. Tears were running down her cheeks. She tried to read the nurse’s face, but she could not. 
“How is—she—getting on?” she asked, speaking very low. 
“Lexy!” came a voice from the cot, almost inaudible. “Take it—the top drawer—of the bureau—for you.” 
“But do you mean—I don’t understand!” cried Lexy. 
“Hush, please!” said the nurse severely. “Mrs. Quelton is not to be excited.” 
Lexy was silent for a moment. Then, just as she was about to speak, her quick ear caught a very unwelcome sound—the sound of a horse’s trot. She turned away and went back through the window into the room. Dr. Quelton was coming home. She couldn’t wait to find out what Muriel Quelton had meant. Once more she was compelled to do the best she could amid a fog of misunderstanding. 
He’d taken shelter under...something...that was large and metal. I couldn’t tell what it had been from the corner I’d uncovered, but I didn’t care. I dug out the edge, down to the dark triangle underneath, and Arthur’s hand appeared, dust-covered and grasping. I grabbed on and pulled. 
He grunted and coughed as he squeezed through, half-collapsing. I grabbed him around the middle and hauled, and we fell together on the rubble. 
“Fuck you,” I croaked, when I could manage speech. Breathing hurt. Everything hurt, but I couldn’t feel it. I was too angry. Or something. I wasn’t sure. 
“Thanks,” Arthur said. 
I was having trouble forming thoughts. “Fuck you,” I said again. “What—the—hell—?” 
“They sent someone to destroy the evidence. ’Parently.” He sniffed and swiped a hand across his face, leaving streaks of dirt and blood. “Seems a bit extreme.” 
I wanted to hit him, but that would require moving. “They offered you the opportunity to walk. I heard it.” 
He looked away. “Had him at gunpoint. Wasn’t about to let our best lead walk out of there and blow the evidence.” 
Coral reefs don’t wake up. They get woken up. They get a lot of neural peripherals—starting with a nervous system!—and some tutelage in using them. Some capricious upload god had done this, and that personage would have a handle on where the reef was hanging out online. 
Robbie hardly ever visited the noosphere. Its rarified heights were spooky to him, especially since so many of the humans there considered Asimovism to be hokum. They refused to even identify themselves as humans, and argued that the first and second laws didn’t apply to them. Of course, Asimovists didn’t care (at least not officially)—the point of the faith was the worshipper’s relationship to it. 
But here he was, looking for high-reliability nodes of discussion on coral reefs. The natural place to start was Wikipedia, where warring clades had been revising each others’ edits furiously, trying to establish an authoritative record on reef-mind. Paging back through the edit-history, he found a couple of handles for the pro-reef-mind users, and from there, he was able to look around for other sites where those handles appeared. Resolving the namespace collisions of other users with the same names, and forked instances of the same users, Robbie was able to winnow away at the net until he found some contact info. 
He wasn't going to sleep. No way . He needed to talk about this. And there was only one person who he could talk to, and luckily, she was usually awake around now. 
Maya had started at Google two years after him, but had gotten a much bigger grant of stock than he had. She knew exactly what she was going to do with it, too, once she vested: take her dogs and her girlfriend and head... It was she who'd convinced him to go to Mexico: anywhere, she said, anywhere that he could reboot his existence. 
Maya had two giant chocolate Labs and a very, very patient girlfriend who'd put up with anything except being dragged around Dolores Park at 6AM by 350 pounds of drooling brown canine. 
She went for her Mace as he jogged towards her, then did a double-take and threw her arms open, dropping the leashes and stamping on them with one sneaker, a practiced gesture. "Where's the rest of you? Dude, you look hawt !" 
He took the hug, suddenly self-conscious of the way he smelled after a night of invasive googling. "Maya," he said. "Maya, what do you know about the DHS?" 
Then I sat back down in my window-space, balanced my laptop on my knees, and typed out three versions of a reply before I finally had one that I was ready to send. 
Hello, Charie, 
You are not the first to call my attention to Simon Meyer's behavior. He is a repeat offender and I'm working on a solution. Because I have other clients for this project, I will not be charging my usual fee. However, if you wish to contribute, you can send twenty dollars to my paypal account. Or whatever you can afford. I will let you know when the mission is accom- plished . 
It may take some time, since a project I'm cur- rently working on is complicated and a life is at stake. But Simon Meyer's day will come and he will face justice. 
In secrecy. The S. A. 
I went with the contribution instead of a fee because I felt guilty that I couldn’t work on her problem full time. Guilty that I hadn’t done something about it when Emily first told me what he had done. Now Emily was in jail and Simon Meyer was out there, 
“In the criminal justice system,” I said in a Law and Order voice, “the people are represented by two separate groups: Dumb and Dumber. Bump bah.” That got a smile out of him. “Hey, I want to go to the swings. Will you push me?” 
Two weeks later, I heard the familiar Convo blurp. I set aside my laptop and the routine I was trying to debug and reached for my phone. 
<wheeze> It's official. No charges. I'm not a wanted man anymore! 
<zen> yay! Free at last. What a relief. 
<wheeze> How's Wilson doing? Is he okay with his plea deal? 
<zen> It may screw things up later, having a record, but he's just glad to be out. He and Emily moved in with some friends. I went to visit them yesterday. Nice house, but it takes forever to get there by bus and then it' s awk- ward because he's all "wow, I can't believe you did all that for me." I actually get along better with Emily. I'm glad they dropped all the charges against her, even though the idea that Wilson was a ringleader and she wasn't is pretty hilarious. 
"Hey, I'm sorry Rachel came barging in," Paula finally said. "Guess she broke everybody's concentration, huh?" 
"Yeah, well, sometimes we all need to lean back and take a fresh run at things." I called to Rachel, who came trotting over, spaghetti sauce still on her face, and picked her up. I felt at a loss about what to do. Tell Paula her daughter had a younger brother in the Village, and she might fall apart. "I was actually curious about something. Do you know any­thing about Rachel's birth mother?" 
"I don't want to know. It would disrupt my life. And my peace of mind." Her eyes acquired a kind of sadness mingled with anxiety. "I'm reconciled to the fact she probably got into some kind of trouble, may not have exactly been Nobel Prize material, but I'm a big believer in nurture over nature. That's why I write books for kids. So I think Rachel's going to end up being a lot more like me than like her real mother." 
Brave words. But I'll bet you anything the story of Ra­chel's mother is a lot more complicated than you imagine. 
more secret. The late night conversations they always had about how messed up everything was and how things should be differ- ent were getting real. 
Zip was taking their progressive political baloney and convinc- ing them that they should do something about it. Make stuff hap- pen, not just talk about it. 
Wheeze didn’t like Zip. He didn’t like the way he was changing the mood of the house, and he didn’t trust his charm or believe his big stories, and all of the political talk made him nervous. But he wasn’t as cynical as I was, so it probably never occurred to him that Zip might be setting them up to be headline news, a reassur- ing victory in the war on terror. 
I had tried to tell my brother that Zip was trouble, that he was the opposite of everything Wilson believed in. Wilson first tried to prove me wrong, then told me I was just jealous, that Zip was the best friend he’d ever had. When I pointed out all the signs that Zip was being manipulative, changing how everybody in the house acted, Wilson got quiet and I could see there was a struggle going on inside him. 
Will Melville drove up to the window and, tossing a letter into Rebecca's lap, went off to the barn on an errand. 
"Sister 's no worse, then," sighed Aurelia gratefully, "or Jane would have telegraphed. See what she says." 
Your aunt Miranda passed away an hour ago. Come at once, if your mother is out of danger. I shall not have the funeral till you are here. She died very suddenly and without any pain. Oh, Rebecca! I long for you so! 
Aunt Jane. 
The force of habit was too strong, and even in the hour of death Jane had remembered that a telegram was twenty-five cents, and that Aurelia would have to pay half a dollar for its delivery. 
Rebecca burst into a passion of tears as she cried, "Poor, poor aunt Miranda! She is gone without taking a bit of comfort in life, and I couldn't say good-by to her! Poor lonely aunt Jane! What can I do, mother? I feel torn in two, between you and the brick house." 
"You must go this very instant," said Aurelia; starting from her pillows. "If I was to die while you were away, I would say the very same thing. Your aunts have done everything in the world for you,—more than I've ever been able to do,—and it is your turn to pay back some o' their kindness and show your gratitude. The doctor says I've turned the corner and I feel I have. Jenny can make out somehow, if Hannah'll come over once a day." 
How was I going to tell Lou about this, that Sarah had been brainwashed? Whatever Alex Goddard had done to her had turned her into some kind of "Moonie," ready to de­nounce her own father. So now did I have two battles to wage: one with Alex Goddard and one with her? 
Then he walked over to me. 
"I'm not going to ask how you got here, though I assume it wasn't easy." He smiled, like a kindly priest, and put his hand on my shoulder. "But however you did it, I'm glad you decided to come. It's important for you to be here. She needs you now." 
" C ut the crap." I pulled away, still in shock from seeing Sarah so addled. I wanted more than anything else in the world just to slug him. "Why did you bring her here? Think about your answer. Kidnapping is a serious crime in the States." 
"I've been very concerned about her." He looked up at the groves of Cebia trees around the square, a quiet glance, as though to inhale the misty morning air. My legal threat had gone right past him—probably because here he was the only law. "But now she's receiving the treatment she needs. I expect she'll be fine before long." 
“He did. He says you’ve killed her. There was some rare drug in it that he can’t get for a fortnight or so, and she can’t live without it.” 
“Captain Grey!” she cried, white to the lips. “I didn’t—” 
“I know,” he said gently. “You meant to help, and I’m glad you did it. She’s better dead. This afternoon, for a little while, she was—herself. She talked to me. She was very weak, but she was herself. She asked me to help her not to take it again. She thought she was getting better. Then that”—he paused—“that damned brute brought in a lawyer, so that she could make her will. She couldn’t believe it. She looked up at me. ‘Oh, I’m not going to die , am I?’ she said. Before I could answer her, he told her she must be prepared. Then I—” 
Again he turned away. 
“And you let him alone?” inquired Houseman. 
“It’s not time to settle with him—yet,” said the other. “That’s why I came away, because I don’t want to kill him—yet. She’s unconscious now. She will be, until it’s finished. I’m going back later, but I wanted to come, here—” He ceased speaking. “To you,” his eyes said to Lexy. 
> So I'm through here. Down in Los Angeles, there are some people. They say they can keep me safe if I want to get out. 
> I want to get out. 
> I will take you with me, if you want to come. Better to be a fighter than a martyr. If you come with me, we can figure out how to win together. I'm as smart as you. Believe. 
> What do you say? 
> Here's my public key. 
> Masha. 
When in trouble or in doubt, run in circles, scream and shout. 
Ever hear that rhyme? It's not good advice, but at least it's easy to follow. I leapt off the bed and paced back and forth. My heart thudded and my blood sang in a cruel parody of the way I'd felt when we got home. This wasn't sexual excitement, it was raw terror. 
"What?" Ange said. "What?" 
I pointed at the screen on my side of the bed. She rolled over and grabbed my keyboard and scribed on the touchpad with her fingertip. She read in silence. 
I paced. 
"This has to be lies," she said. "The DHS is playing games with your head." 
I looked at her. She was biting her lip. She didn't look like she believed it. 
Their glance was eager and full of interest, yet never satisfied; their steadfast gaze was brilliant and mysterious, and had the effect of looking directly through the obvious to something beyond, in the object, in the landscape, in you. They had never been accounted for, Rebecca's eyes. The school teacher and the minister at Temperance had tried and failed; the young artist who came for the summer to sketch the red barn, the ruined mill, and the bridge ended by giving up all these local beauties and devoting herself to the face of a child,—a small, plain face illuminated by a pair of eyes carrying such messages, such suggestions, such hints of sleeping power and insight, that one never tired of looking into their shining depths, nor of fancying that what one saw there was the reflection of one's own thought. 
Mr. Cobb made none of these generalizations; his remark to his wife that night was simply to the effect that whenever the child looked at him she knocked him galley-west. 
"Miss Ross, a lady that paints, gave me the sunshade," said Rebecca, when she had exchanged looks with Mr. Cobb and learned his face by heart. "Did you notice the pinked double ruffle and the white tip and handle? They're ivory. The handle is scarred, you see. That's because Fanny sucked and chewed it in meeting when I wasn't looking. I've never felt the same to Fanny since." 
I had a little Faraday pouch in my bag -- these are little wallets lined with a mesh of copper wires that effectively block radio energy, silencing arphids. But the pouches were made for neutralizing ID cards and toll-booth transponders, not books like -- "Introduction to Physics?" I groaned. The book was the size of a dictionary. 
"I'm thinking of majoring in physics when I go to Berkeley," Darryl said. His dad taught at the University of California at Berkeley, which meant he'd get free tuition when he went. And there'd never been any question in Darryl's household about whether he'd go. 
"Fine, but couldn't you research it online?" 
"My dad said I should read it. Besides, I didn't plan on committing any crimes today." 
"Skipping school isn't a crime. It's an infraction. They're totally different." 
"What are we going to do, Marcus?" 
"Well, I can't hide it, so I'm going to have to nuke it." Killing arphids is a dark art. No merchant wants malicious customers going for a walk around the shop-floor and leaving behind a bunch of lobotomized merchandise that is missing its invisible bar-code, so the manufacturers have refused to implement a "kill signal" that you can radio to an arphid to get it to switch off. You can reprogram arphids with the right box, but I hate doing that to library books. It's not exactly tearing pages out of a book, but it's still bad, since a book with a reprogrammed arphid can't be shelved and can't be found. It just becomes a needle in a haystack. 
Here in soap boxes hidden among the trees were stored all their treasures: wee baskets and plates and cups made of burdock balls, bits of broken china for parties, dolls, soon to be outgrown, but serving well as characters in all sorts of romances enacted there,—deaths, funerals, weddings, christenings. A tall, square house of stickins was to be built round Rebecca this afternoon, and she was to be Charlotte Corday leaning against the bars of her prison. 
It was a wonderful experience standing inside the building with Emma Jane's apron wound about her hair; wonderful to feel that when she leaned her head against the bars they seemed to turn to cold iron; that her eyes were no longer Rebecca Randall's but mirrored something of Charlotte Corday's hapless woe. 
"Ain't it lovely?" sighed the humble twain, who had done most of the labor, but who generously admired the result. 
"I hate to have to take it down," said Alice, "it's been such a sight of work." 
"If you think you could move up some stones and just take off the top rows, I could step out over," suggested Charlotte Corday. "Then leave the stones, and you two can step down into the prison to-morrow and be the two little princes in the Tower, and I can murder you." 
"Aren't mothers supposed to be? She doesn't want some tramp turning your head with jiggling parts and voluptuous curves and ruining you for the nice, decent girls." 
Ray can't help but wince. "What? Do they give you guys some kind of manual with this crap in it? Because if they do, it's grossly unfair. Boys don't get manuals for comprehending women, or if we did, I was absent that day." 
""It's all right, Ray. I like that reason. It's very romantic, very chivalrous. People who discount solid Midwestern values make a grave mistake. They set themselves up for lifetimes of misery. " 
He's getting dizzy again, as though he's watching her spin a web around him. "I don't even know what I'm doing here, let alone what I want." 
"You want me. That much should be obvious. " 
"I'm not in your league, Emma. Never have been. This isn't one of those clever sensibilities the Marines hacked out of me, either. It's not a class thing or an experience thing. It's something I never had to begin with. 
You're— I don't know-you're so far beyond me that I can't even put it into words. Half the time I want to strangle you because I think you're just playing with me, teasing me the way a kid squeezes a strange puppy. 
She stood up and tugged at her cardigan again. "It's been very nice seeing you," she said. She picked up her coat and her mitts. "Good luck settling in." 
He gave her a hug -- which felt weird, hugging was strictly west-of-the-Mississippi, and she broke it off firmly -- and showed her to the door. The first snows were coming in, and the steps were slightly icy, so she maneuvered them slowly, carefully. When she reached the road, he was no longer in the doorway. He was standing right behind her, breath coming out in foggy huffs. 
"Trish," he said, then stopped. His arms dropped to his sides and his shoulders slumped. 
"Damian," she said, keeping her voice calm and neutral. 
"God," he said. "God. How'd this happen, Trish? Look, I've never been happy the way I was with you. I haven't been that happy since. God, Trish --" 
"Damian," she said again, taking one of his hands, firmly, motherly. "Damian. Stop it. You're here to do a job, and your job requires that you and I keep it on a professional level. It doesn't matter how it happened --" But it did, didn't it? She'd left him to come east and do something he thought of as wrong-headed and backwards and superstitious. But she'd left him, not the other way around. And he'd never recovered, though she'd built herself a new life here. It wasn't a contest (but she was winning anyway). "It doesn't matter. We respect each other. That's enough." 
With Lijah and with Lisha am I tied, 
My soul recoyles like Cora Doctor's Wife, 
Like her I feer I cannot bare this life. 
I am going to try for the speling prize but fear I cannot get it. I would not care but wrong speling looks dreadful in poetry. Last Sunday when I found seraphim in the dictionary I was ashamed I had made it serrafim but seraphim is not a word you can guess at like another long one outlandish in this letter which spells itself. Miss Dearborn says use the words you CAN spell and if you cant spell seraphim make angel do but angels are not just the same as seraphims. Seraphims are brighter whiter and have bigger wings and I think are older and longer dead than angels which are just freshly dead and after a long time in heaven around the great white throne grow to be seraphims. 
I sew on brown gingham dresses every afternoon when Emma Jane and the Simpsons are playing house or running on the Logs when their mothers do not know it. Their mothers are afraid they will drown and Aunt M. is afraid I will wet my clothes so will not let me either. I can play from half past four to supper and after supper a little bit and Saturday afternoons. I am glad our cow has a calf and it is spotted. It is going to be a good year for apples and hay so you and John will be glad and we can pay a little more morgage. Miss Dearborn asked us what is the object of edducation and I said the object of mine was to help pay off the morgage. She told Aunt M. and I had to sew extra for punishment because she says a morgage is disgrace like stealing or smallpox and it will be all over town that we have one on our farm. Emma Jane is not morgaged nor Richard Carter nor Dr. Winship but the Simpsons are. 
“See? Sass.” When I shot him a look that could have splintered his skull, he took one hand off the steering wheel and raised it in mock surrender. “Sorry, girl, sorry! I mock because I, uh, because I have respect. For your badass retrieval skills. Happy?” 
“Only because from here I could kill you in less than half a second.” 
Okay, maybe it wasn’t the smartest boast to make. But it was worth it to see that glib look in his eyes stutter into discomfort, and for the truck to fall into blessed silence. When Tresting spoke again, his tone was back to businesslike. “So, who hired you?” 
I wasn’t in the mood to cooperate. “Client privilege.” 
Anger clouded his features. “Hey, I told you—” 
“A whole big sack of nonsense,” I cut in. “Here’s the deal. You show me all your precious data. If I agree there’s something there, then we can work together, and then you get to know everything I know. Not before.” 
“What happened to quid pro quo?” demanded Tresting. 
“I’m young and sassy,” I shot back. “This is all just a game to me.” 
“You’re supposed to be good with computers. Why don’t you make an app like that?” 
“Maybe I will.” 
“It would be handy to know when the pigs are around.” He made some disgusting snorting sounds as he grabbed me and started tickling my waist in not-very-appropriate way. 
I giggled, while also throwing up in my mouth a little, and scooted away from him. “Quit it. I need to do homework.” 
“Such a serious student.” 
“Not really. I’m just trying to take my mind off my brother being in jail.” As I talked, I tilted my laptop away from him and brought up the website where I could log in and track his phone. 
“I wish I could do something about it, but I can’t get behind what the Solidarity Committee is doing.” A green dot showed our loca- tion at the Owl, which gave me an inner squee of excitement. 
I quickly closed the lid when Simon leaned toward me. 
“Why’s that?” 
I felt along the hem of my shirt until I found the button that turned on the camera. I doubted an FBI stooge was going to join our table anytime soon, but it might be useful to add some visuals to Nikko’s audio recordings. 
Exactly like the ones, Holcomb reveals to Ray beneath a starry New Mes night and in a breathless and trembling voice, precisely cognate to the ones he has had surgically fused to the bones of his skull, grafted around his femur and tibia, implanted into his pelvis. He laughs, grim with knowledge, and says over and again: the shed is wrong about that, my friend. I won't slip; I won't make a mistake or let down my guard. 
Im-fucking-possible. He doesn't know about modern medicine, does he? He hasn't kept up with time, with technology. There's no way to trip me up, to steal my talisman and turn me into some doddering Solomon with a shamir in my staff of power. Bring your shiddah veshiddot/ You thought Solomon was an asshole? You don't know the first thing about me, but I know everything about you. 
What was the difference between paranoia and insanity? That might be something he'd have to look up.  You're a good soldier, Marlowe. You know everything there is to know about the currency of the physical world— violence. There's no fault in that. We've trained you to be a ruthless killing machine, andyou've taken to your lessons like a prodigy, plain and simple. But you need to get this through your head, buddy. You 're not just operating in a physical arena. Not anymore. You see the shed, you read the books I've read and seen the forces I've seen-forces beyond the ken of simpleminded man-and you've got one of two choices: you ignore what you know to be the truth and wait for it to destroy you, or you dive in, you learn, you acquire the currency of the supernatural world—knowledge. Once you take that step, once you accept what you've seen as truth rather than illusion or delusion or psychotic break, Marlowe, then the world becomes a totally different place. The horizon takes on a depth you never imagined. The universe is afar vaster and stunningly more nuanced place than you have heretofore cared to believe. Once you know, you can't ever go back to a place of not knowing, only forward, only better warned and better armed. You'll see. One day you'll say to yourself, 
We hadn’t even made it out of sight of the bunkers behind us when a dozen black SUVs tore up the slope. 
Oh, God. 
Shit. Halliday was right. They’d come back. 
I steadied my stance and leveled the AK, making sure the selector was back on semiauto and counting how many shots I had left. 
“Wait!” shrieked Halliday. “Wait, wait, don’t shoot!” 
I hesitated an instant, my finger already on the trigger, and saw the lights. 
Red and blue. Police lights. Flashing out of the SUVs. 
And another thrum came up on the edges of my hearing—helicopters. 
Holy shit. The Feds really had found us. Or maybe someone had called in the explosion as the bad guys had feared. Whatever the reason, they were here. 
The AK suddenly felt excessively heavy, and I let the butt end thud into the dirt. There was something wrong with my legs. I sat down hard after it, the weapon falling across my lap. 
Well-armed agents were pouring out of the vehicles. Halliday thrust her hands in the air. Someone pointed and shouted. Halliday started calling out, babbling about how no one was left here but us. 
"Her mother took her home. She wanted to wait here for you, but..." 
I understood. I felt full of understanding now, for how all the families of all the people who'd been locked away must feel. The courtroom was full of tears and hugs, and even the bailiffs couldn't stop it. 
"Let's go see Darryl," I said. "And let me borrow your phone?" 
I called Ange on the way to the hospital where they were keeping Darryl -- San Francisco General, just down the street from us -- and arranged to see her after dinner. She talked in a hurried whisper. Her mom wasn't sure whether to punish her or not, but Ange didn't want to tempt fate. 
There were two state troopers in the corridor where Darryl was being held. They were holding off a legion of reporters who stood on tiptoe to see around them and get pictures. The flashes popped in our eyes like strobes, and I shook my head to clear it. My parents had brought me clean clothes and I'd changed in the back seat, but I still felt gross, even after scrubbing myself in the court-house bathrooms. 
“He’ll be standing by for when we get in,” Tresting assured me. “In case we can get him remote access. Shall we?” 
“Can you get him to cut the security cameras for us first?” I wasn’t likely to forget how easily Checker had been able to find Dawna and me on the Santa Monica footage. 
“Asked already. For some reason the building security system is down today. Been down for the last few hours.” 
I studied his grim face. “You think they have something going down?” 
“Only one way to find out. Mind giving me my gun back?” 
Tresting drove; I sat in the passenger seat and tried to keep from fidgeting. I’d never gone into a place with someone else. It felt odd, itchy, like a variable I had no control over. I tamped down both that and my headache, which had reappeared with a dull throb as we drove—this wasn’t the time to be distracted. Fortunately, I’d had enough practice with hangovers to ignore headaches pretty easily. 
Once we hit the right block, Tresting parked his badass truck on the street in favor of not being locked in a nine-dollar-per-hour garage, and we walked in the front door of the office building. An attendant in the lobby nodded at us with a mild frown—probably because we both looked like we either belonged to the same fight club or made a habit of walking into doors together—but Tresting nodded back in a friendly sort of way and went up to the directory as if he belonged there, and the attendant went back to his crossword. 
"Oh, Mr. Aladdin!" cried Rebecca eagerly, taking his jest quite seriously; "I am not fifteen yet, and it will be three years before I'm a young lady; please don't give me up until you have to!" 
"I won't; I promise you that," said Adam. "Rebecca," he continued, after a moment's pause, "who is that young girl with a lot of pretty red hair and very citified manners? She escorted me down the hill; do you know whom I mean?" 
"It must be Huldah Meserve; she is from Riverboro." 
Adam put a finger under Rebecca's chin and looked into her eyes; eyes as soft, as clear, as unconscious, and childlike as they had been when she was ten. He remembered the other pair of challenging blue ones that had darted coquettish glances through half-dropped lids, shot arrowy beams from under archly lifted brows, and said gravely, "Don't form yourself on her, Rebecca; clover blossoms that grow in the fields beside Sunnybrook mustn't be tied in the same bouquet with gaudy sunflowers; they are too sweet and fragrant and wholesome." 
I uploaded the three pictures. That started off a race, with peo- ple combing the internet for information about the people my facial rec had coughed up. Within minutes we were filling dossiers set up for sharing data. I felt a little guilty that I was taking peo- ple’s attention away from the typhoon, but when I visited that thread, there was plenty of work going on there, too. 
The Group is like that. They’re smart and funny and they get stuff done. 
In case you’re wondering, that’s not its actual name. Its actual name is different every day, and it’s a randomly-generated word, 
so most of the time you can’t even pronounce it. We just call it the Group for short. It uses a Tor onion router and encrypts the conversations between members. I didn’t know anything about it until one day, when I was on Sourcerer, helping troubleshoot a chat program. Mattitude, who was also working on it, sent me his public key. When I sent him mine, he asked if I wanted to join. It’s not totally exclusive or anything - all kinds of people are part of it, and it’s not a huge secret, but it’s not like Reddit or Slashdot. 
"You're so sexy when you're cryptic, Commander." 
Beneath the wrapping paper is a flimsy cardboard container. Kilgore pops the seal on one side, tilts it up and spills a dozen or more stone rings onto the table top. They're dark, a sort of metallic blue, vaguely iridescent. 
The illusion of iridescence comes, in fact, from the imbedded Arabic script, etched in silver, Ray guesses, 
both inside and out. 
"Look," Kilgore says, snorting. "Ray has a secret admirer." 
Ray picks up the ring that has rolled closest to him, holds it between thumb and forefinger and examines it against the overhead light. Meteoric stone, he supposes. Inscribed with incantations. He shakes his head and jams the thin, cool band onto his right hand. 
Kilgore continues to shake the box, but nothing else falls out. For good measure, he turns it over so he can peer inside. "But she didn't leave a note. That's pretty rude." 
Rodriguez rolls one of the rings around in his palm, examining it from various angles, obviously intrigued. 
“I think the ship’s already sailed on that one,” I said. 
“We are still hoping to change his mind.” 
Change his mind. Fuck. If Dawna could say one thing with confidence, it was that she could change anyone’s mind. 
Wait a minute. If they’d pierced Rio’s cover back with the cartel, and had known where he was, then why wasn’t he Pithica’s obliging tool already? He hadn’t known who Dawna was until she’d put the whammy on me; he wouldn’t have recognized her as a threat. She could have walked in and done her ESP thing on him without arousing the least suspicion. Unless—I felt my eyes widen. 
Dawna smiled at me. “Your deduction is correct. My insights—those that help us relate so well to people—they fail us here. Mr. Sonrio is, as I am sure you know, a special case.” 
Holy crap. They couldn’t control Rio. They couldn’t control Rio! Note to self: to avoid being vulnerable to telepathy, become a psychopath. No, bad plan, Cas. 
“Hence all the experimentation,” I breathed. “You were trying to see how he’d react.” 
"I like what you've done with the place," I said. She'd gotten rid of all her hand-woven prayer-rugs and silk pillows and installed some normal, boring office furniture, including a couple spare chairs. I guessed that she'd been having a lot of people stop by for meetings, the kind of people who didn't want to sit on an antique Turkish rug with their feet tucked under them. 
"Have a seat," she said. 
I sat. I'd emailed her the trust documents and the copies of the Shannon contract earlier, along with a legal opinion from our free counsel about what it meant for Sun-Oracle. 
"I've reviewed your proposal." We'd offered them all profits from the Rollover code, too. It was a good deal, and I felt good about it. "Johanna, can you come in, please?" She called this loudly, and the door of her office opened to admit my replacement, Johanna Madrigal, a young pup of a sysadmin who had definitely been the brightest tech on campus. I knew that she had been trying to administer BIGMAC since my departure, and I knew that BIGMAC had been pretty difficult about it. I felt for her. She was good people. 
"Sure. It was right there in the schematics. I took the liberty of informing the galley well in advance that any attempt to serve ice cream for dessert in the officers' mess tonight would probably be a bad idea. " 
As usual, Ziggy narrows his eyes, trying to guess how much of what he has just said is true. "I won't tell you how pissed off the Commander was." 
"Maybe we should write this down. I think it's a notable first. "  "Shut up for a minute and listen to me, Ray. I'm trying to tell you that it was good work, regardless of what anyone else might have to say about it. A hard job done nice and quick and by the book. 
Most of the system vets would have written off the hardware and let it go at that. Don't want to inconvenience the captain, you understand." All along, Ziggy continues his examination of the rat, though to Ray, it looked more like the two of them were playing some arcane version of pat-a-cake. "Do you know why I give you the type of job orders I do, Ray?" 
Ray chews his lip thoughtfully, then says, "Because you hate me? Because you know I don't have a permanent berth and need to stay in your good graces if I want a job next time out? Or maybe just because I'm gullible. " 
"THIS IS AN ILLEGAL GATHERING. DISPERSE IMMEDIATELY." 
The band had stopped playing. The noise of the crowd across the street changed. It got scared. Angry. 
I heard a click as the PA system of car-speakers and car-batteries in the tennis courts powered up. 
"TAKE IT BACK!" 
It was a defiant yell, like a sound shouted into the surf or screamed off a cliff. 
"TAKE IT BACK!" 
The crowd growled , a sound that made the hairs on the back of my neck stand up. 
" TAKE IT BACK !" they chanted. "TAKE IT BACK TAKE IT BACK TAKE IT BACK!" 
The police moved in in lines, carrying plastic shields, wearing Darth Vader helmets that covered their faces. Each one had a black truncheon and infra-red goggles. They looked like soldiers out of some futuristic war movie. They took a step forward in unison and every one of them banged his truncheon on his shield, a cracking noise like the earth splitting. Another step, another crack. They were all around the park and closing in now. 
"DISPERSE IMMEDIATELY," the voice of God said again. There were helicopters overhead now. No floodlights, though. The infrared goggles, right. Of course. They'd have infrared scopes in the sky, too. I pulled Ange back against the doorway of the church, tucking us back from the cops and the choppers. 
“Um, I was hoping to talk to you?” My voice sounded funny. 
“Sure.” He was suddenly serious, and murmured something to the girl that I couldn’t hear, before giving her a last squeeze and smooch. “What is it? Your brother?” he asked me, drawing me back into a corner of the basement where it was dark and there probably were spiders. I focused for a minute on looking for bugs until I could get my thoughts together. Something was crackling through my head like static electricity. 
“Sort of. I had this idea, but actually it’s kind of crazy.” 
“I like crazy.” 
“I’m not sure you’ll like this kind of crazy. It could get you in all kinds of trouble.” I rubbed my eyes, feeling weird and out of place. People like that skinny girl with purple hair belonged here, 
but I didn’t. I was feeling really tired all of a sudden, and a little dizzy. “This is dumb. I should go.” 
“No, tell me. I want to help.” He looked at me steadily, insist- ing that I look back at him. 
“You’re busy here.” It came out sounding like an accusation. 
> M1k3y. 
Then I sent a short message to Masha. 
> Tomorrow, 
> M1k3y. 
What do you bring along when you go fugitive? I'd carried enough heavy packs around enough scout camps to know that every ounce you add cuts into your shoulders with all the crushing force of gravity with every step you take -- it's not just one ounce, it's one ounce that you carry for a million steps. It's a ton. 
"Right," Ange said. "Smart. And you never take more than three days' worth of clothes, either. You can rinse stuff out in the sink. Better to have a spot on your t-shirt than a suitcase that's too big and heavy to stash under a plane-seat." 
She'd pulled out a ballistic nylon courier bag that went across her chest, between her breasts -- something that made me get a little sweaty -- and slung diagonally across her back. It was roomy inside, and she'd set it down on the bed. Now she was piling clothes next to it. 
"I figure that three t-shirts, a pair of pants, a pair of shorts, three changes of underwear, three pairs of socks and a sweater will do it." 
It was an extremely legitimate question. “I don’t know.” 
The conversation stalled into awkward silence. I had a pretty good idea what Checker might be thinking: Dawna hadn’t found him yet. He could continue to run, and run as fast and far as he could, instead of hooking back up with us and facing the real possibility of becoming another one of Pithica’s pawns. 
“If it helps,” I said. “It feels like I’m fighting her. Plus, Rio really does seem to be immune, and he thinks I’m okay.” Checker still didn’t say anything. “Hello?” 
“Who?” The word was slow and suspicious. 
My chest started to cramp in a way that had nothing to do with the healing wound or the wet bandages, and my headache suddenly felt twice as bad. I leaned against the wall next to the window. “Arthur neglected to mention I work with Rio, didn’t he.” 
“ That Rio?” 
“I assume so.” 
He made a choking sound. “Some of the things Arthur said make a lot more sense now. I’m going to kill him.” 
“I take it you’ve heard of Rio, too, then.” 
"What's the big deal? Would you rather have privacy or terrorists?" 
Agh. I hated arguing with my dad like...  on. Taking away our privacy isn't catching terrorists: it's just inconveniencing normal people." 
"How do you know it's not catching terrorists?" 
"Where are the terrorists they've caught?" 
"I'm sure we'll see arrests in good time. You just wait." 
"Dad, what the hell has happened to you since last night? You were ready to go nuclear on the cops for pulling you over --" 
"Don't use that tone with me, Marcus. What's happened since last night is that I've had the chance to think it over and to read this ." He rattled his paper. "The reason they caught me is that the bad guys are actively jamming them. They need to adjust their techniques to overcome the jamming. But they'll get there. Meanwhile the occasional road stop is a small price to pay. This isn't the time to be playing lawyer about the Bill of Rights. This is the time to make some sacrifices to keep our city safe." 
I couldn't finish my toast. I put the plate in the dishwasher and left for school. I had to get out of there. 
"She'd make a wonderful missionary," said Mrs. Burch; "with her voice, and her magnetism, and her gift of language." 
"If I was to say which of the two she was best adapted for, I'd say she'd make a better heathen," remarked Miranda curtly. 
"My sister don't believe in flattering children," hastily interpolated Jane, glancing toward Mrs. Burch, who seemed somewhat shocked, and was about to open her lips to ask if Rebecca was not a "professor." 
Mrs. Cobb had been looking for this question all the evening and dreading some allusion to her favorite as gifted in prayer. She had taken an instantaneous and illogical dislike to the Rev. Mr. Burch in the afternoon because he called upon Rebecca to "lead." She had seen the pallor creep into the girl's face, the hunted look in her eyes, and the trembling of the lashes on her cheeks, and realized the ordeal through which she was passing. Her prejudice against the minister had relaxed under his genial talk and presence, but feeling that Mrs. Burch was about to tread on dangerous ground, she hastily asked her if one had to change cars many times going from Riverboro to Syria. She felt that it was not a particularly appropriate question, but it served her turn. 
“Yes!” said Lexy. 
The doctor rose. 
“The solving of mysteries!” he said, with his unpleasant smile. “That makes very interesting fiction!” 
Lexy rose, too. His tone, his manner, exasperated her almost beyond endurance. She felt an ardent desire to contradict everything he said. What is more, she was in no humor to hear mystery stories made light of. She had had enough of that—first Mrs. Enderby pretending there was no mystery, and then Mr. Houseman going off and pretending it was solved, so that she was left alone to do the best she could. Wasn’t she in a mystery story at this very minute, and without a single promising clew to guide her? 
“There are plenty of mysteries that aren’t fiction,” she observed curtly. 
“But they are never solved,” said Dr. Quelton. 
“Never solved?” said Lexy. “But lots of them are! You can read in the newspapers all the time about crimes that—” 
“The mystery of a crime is never solved,” the doctor blandly proceeded. “Never! Let us say, for example, that a murder is committed. The police investigate, they arrest some one. There is a trial, the jury finds that the suspect is guilty, the judge sentences him, and he is executed. Public opinion is satisfied; but as a matter of fact, nothing whatever has been solved. It is all guesswork. Not one living soul, not one member of the jury, not the judge, not the executioner, really knows that the accused man was guilty. They think so—that is all. What you call a ‘solution’ is merely a guess, based upon probabilities.” 
“I’m not uncomfortable,” I said. “I was just confused.” 
“About what?” 
“You flirt with everyone,” I pointed out mechanically. “You don’t do it with me.” 
His face wrinkled in surprise. “Well, I did, when we first met, but you never flirted back. I try not to be a creeper.” 
“Oh,” I said. 
“Cas?” He touched my arm. I’d never taken note before of how tactile Checker was. The relief-mixed-with-strangeness flooded back, an almost dangerous feeling. Daring me. 
“I don’t want anything from you, either,” I said. I slid my hand down so I was touching his, very lightly. It was the strangest sensation in the world. “But I want...to not think for a while. Is that okay? Can we do that?” 
He turned his hand under mine, rotating it to interlace our fingers. “Yeah,” he said. “Sure. We can do that.” 
We let the soup grow...  breath was slow and even beside me, but I stayed staring up into the dark. I hadn’t drunk enough to pass out, and right now I wasn’t even sure if that would be enough. 
Besides, I felt...strange. Not better, not exactly, but less...untethered. Not because of the sex; I didn’t think that was the important piece. All I knew was that I felt less desolate, here, with the warmth of another person beside me, a person who cared enough to let me in out of the rain and be...whatever I needed. 
“Anything else?” 
“No, just—” 
A deafening explosion tore through the line. I heard a girl’s scream, and Anton shouting, and then any human sound was swallowed by the chaos of more explosions, multiple ones at once—and the call went dead. 
Shit shit shit shit shit! 
I tore back along the street, my boots pounding against the asphalt, the math blurring and every other thought evaporating as I dove toward the car. 
LA traffic is forever fucked, but it helps to know the calculus of moving objects—and to drive like a maniac. I slued between lanes, skidding in front of other cars by a hairsbreadth, cutting it as close as the numbers told me I possibly could, and when I started hitting traffic lights, I laid on the horn and popped the wheels up over the curb to sheer down the sidewalk, horrified pedestrians hurling themselves out of my way and traumatized citizens howling expletives in my wake. Courtney made small sounds in the passenger seat, bracing herself against the dashboard and trying to hang on. 
"Oh, that." She smiled. "She was wearing it when I got her, on a little silk cord around her waist, under her diaper. They told me it was a gift from her real mother, a keepsake. Sort of breaks your heart, but the way they said it, you want to keep it forever. . . ." 
At that moment Erica was just plugging the phone back in, and the second she did, the old, black Panasonic cordless began to ring. 
"Hang on a sec," Paula said. "Let me get that. My agent is supposed—" She'd picked up the phone and was plopping back onto the couch. "Hi." 
Then her look turned blank. "No, of course not." She fell into an uncomfortable pause, looking around at everybody. Then she continued. "Nobody's contacted me." She halted again, her face white, and stared directly at me. I abruptly sensed that I was the topic of the conversation. "Sure I'm sure. . . . Yes, I remember signing. . . . Don't worry. I'd have no reason to. . . . Okay, sure, I'll let you know." 
She clicked off the phone and looked up with startled eyes. "It was somebody who said they worked for Children of Light. She wanted to know if you'd contacted me." Her face collapsed. "You. She asked me specifically about you . By name. How did—?" 
Sitting in the back of that Hummer, my head in a hood, my hands lashed behind my back, lurching back and forth while the bruises swelled up on my head, terrorism suddenly felt a lot riskier. 
The car rocked back and forth and tipped uphill. I gathered we were headed over Nob Hill, and from the angle, it seemed we were taking one of the steeper routes -- I guessed Powell Street. 
Now we were descending just as steeply. If my mental map was right, we were...  could get on a boat there, get away. That fit with the terrorism hypothesis. Why the hell would terrorists kidnap a bunch of high school students? 
We rocked to a stop still on a downslope. The engine died and then the doors swung open. Someone dragged me by my arms out onto the road, then shoved me, stumbling, down a paved road. A few seconds later, I tripped over a steel staircase, bashing my shins. The hands behind me gave me another shove. I went up the stairs cautiously, not able to use my hands. I got up the third step and reached for the fourth, but it wasn't there. I nearly fell again, but new hands grabbed me from in front and dragged me down a steel floor and then forced me to my knees and locked my hands to something behind me. 
Sixteen and a half feet between the buildings, and if possible I wanted to clear the jagged edges of destroyed wall and the lion’s share of the rubble. Fortunately, I was one story higher. I’d have more than enough time to fly the x -distance while I was falling, and the vertical distance was barely over thirteen feet. I’d fallen farther plenty of times. 
Of course, the height difference meant I’d have to find a different way out once I made the leap, but I could figure that out once I sussed the demolition rig up close. 
I walked along the edge of the roof, looking for the smoothest landing spot amid the rubble on the opposite building, and zeroed in on a likely patch of floor. I tossed some bits of roof over just in case anything was still live, but my landing area showed no evidence of being likely to disintegrate me. Good. 
I backtracked to the middle of my roof to give myself a running start, did the final calculations, and then ran straight at the edge. I couldn’t see my landing spot as I pounded toward the brink—only purple-blue sky, clear and empty, as if I were about to take off and fly past the end of the world. 
He slid the picks in and turned the knob. “Behind me,” I said as he pushed the door open, and I crept in crosshairs-first. Arthur dropped back so I could take point and eased the door shut behind us with a click. 
The entryway led into an earth-toned living room in a jumble of...  chairs were knocked off-kilter, with some needlepoint and photographs dangling askew and scattered across the floor. A set of shelves had fallen to lean precariously against the back of the couch, books and papers strewn across the furniture. 
The disarray wasn’t too bad—just enough to tell the story of a struggle. 
“Oh,” said a weak voice. 
Arthur swore and slipped past me into the kitchen, holstering his Glock. I followed and saw a pair of stumpy legs sprawled over the ceramic tile, attached to a woman slumped against the refrigerator—a woman who was not Sonya Halliday. She was a very tiny older lady, with copper-toned skin and a face so creased with wrinkles she reminded me of a walnut. A cap of gray hair still shot with black gave her a few years back, though right now the hair was wet and matted, and the ice-filled washcloth she held against it was being dyed a deep red. 
Halliday sniffed, hard, but when she spoke her voice was steady. “Rita was as sharp as ever. And she wanted to solve the P versus NP problem more than anything in her entire life. If the knowledge terrified her this much...” The dark shapes of her hands tightened on the papers she held, crumpling them. “I have to trust her.” 
“No,” I said. “You really, really don’t.” 
“Then let me rephrase. I’m choosing to trust her. If she says this broke the world for her, if she says she was only trying to protect me—” 
“You’re not making any sense!” I cried. “If her proof was valid, then P equaling NP is true whether or not you’ve seen the reduction. Besides, how could you not want to know? Her emotional response is immaterial—for Christ’s sake, the Pythagoras cult thought irrational numbers were demonic and refused to accept them; that doesn’t mean—” I stuttered, out of words, out of ways to explain. “This isn’t right, what she’s doing. The world should know. Even if all you do is turn it over to the NSA, the knowledge should be out there. You can’t just delete it from the world; it’s wrong!” 
Then, at the proper time, she went back to the Grand Central, recovered her bag, bought herself two or three magazines and a bar of chocolate, and boarded the train. For all that she tried to be so cool and sensible, she could not help feeling a queer little thrill of excitement. Her quest had begun, and she could not in any way foresee the end. 
Now it certainly was not Lexy’s way to take any great interest in strange young men. There was not a trace of coquetry in her honest heart, and she had always looked upon the little flirtations of her friends with distaste and wonder. 
“ I’m not romantic!” she had said more than once. 
She believed that. She would have denied indignantly that her present mission was romantic. She thought it a matter-of-course thing which she was in honor bound to do for her friend Caroline Enderby. She felt that she was very cool and practical about it, and a mighty sensible sort of girl altogether. 
Certainly she saw the young man on the train, for her alert glance saw pretty well everything. She saw him, and she thought she had never set eyes on a handsomer man. 
I sat back down on the bed. I was breathing fast again. 
"Chill out," she said. "It's just head-games. Here." 
She never took my keyboard from me before, but now there was a new intimacy between us. She hit reply and typed, 
> Nice try. 
She was writing as M1k3y now, too. We were together in a way that was different from before. 
"Go ahead and sign it. We'll see what she says." 
I didn't know if that was the best idea, but I didn't have any better ones. I signed it and encrypted it with my private key and the public key Masha had provided. 
Attached was source-code for a little program that appeared to do exactly what Masha claimed: pull video over the Domain Name Service protocol. 
Let me back up a moment here and explain something. At the end of the day, every Internet protocol is just a sequence of text sent back and forth in a prescribed order. It's kind of like getting a truck and putting a car in it, then putting a motorcycle in the car's trunk, then attaching a bicycle to the back of the motorcycle, then hanging a pair of Rollerblades on the back of the bike. Except that then, if you want, you can attach the truck to the Rollerblades. 
The zombie staggered back. They couldn’t feel pain, but their balance was a little weak. It tottered and she went after it with the bar. One whack in the knee took it down on its side. It reached with its good arm and so she smashed that too. Then the heaving ribs. Then the face, the hateful, leering, mouth-open-stupid face, three smashes turned it into ruin. The jaw hung down to its chest, broken off its face. 
A hand seized her and she whirled with her bar held high and nearly brained the soldier who’d grabbed her. He wasn’t a zombie, and he had his pistol out. It was pointed at her. She dropped her bar like it was red hot and threw her arms in the air. 
He shoved her rudely aside and knelt beside the zombie—the soldier zombie she realized with a sick lurch—that she’d just smashed to pieces. 
The soldier’s back was to her, but his chest was heaving like a bellows and his neck was tight. 
“Please,” she said. “After they give him the cure, they can fix his bones. I had to hit him or he would have killed me. He would have infected me. You see that, right? I know it was wrong, but—” 
"Honey, I don't know if I'm really—" 
"Hey, don't wimp out on me. If we're going to do this place, at least we can do it in style. Besides, you can't live on smog alone. You gotta eat." 
He had a point. Starving myself wasn't going to help find Sarah any sooner. And there were details I wanted to tell him that I didn't want to broadcast in the room. What if Colonel Ramos had long ears to match his long arm? 
"Come on," he pressed. "Just put on the slinkiest thing you've got and get ready to go native. It'll help you put this part of the world into perspective." 
Alas, I had nothing particularly "slinky," though fortu­nately I'd packed a silk blouse I could loosen and tie with a scarf around the waist. Don't laugh, it worked. I even brushed on some serious eye shadow, which normally I don't bother with much. 
I tried not to let him know how concerned I was as we walked down the driveway of the hotel and hailed a cab, while I furtively searched the shadows. Seeing the streets after dark made me sad all over again for Sarah. I still wanted to see and feel Guatemala the way she had, but when I got close to the realities of the place, it made me uneasy. 
“Got things squared with the Feds, by the way,” Arthur continued. “The credit’s Sonya’s, to be honest. She kept her cool and held her ground, and I think they still want her cooperating enough that they’ll smooth anything over, long as we didn’t hurt any good guys. She told them they had to leave you be, no two ways about it, and your friend Agent Jones said okay, she’d make it all go away.” 
Halliday had protected me. Despite me going after her friend. I wondered if she knew everything, knew what I’d done. 
Maybe she was trying for forgiveness, like Arthur. He did have that effect on people. 
Or maybe she’d only defended me because she still wanted me to come work with her, help give advancements to her precious field. She didn’t know it was impossible. She didn’t know I was...damaged. 
Forever, now. 
“Martinez,” I said in a low voice. “Is there any chance she’ll come out of it?” 
He hesitated. “They ain’t hopeful.” He took a breath. “Russell, they say she...they say one of the symptoms is hallucinations. Personality changes. They say she might’ve been thinking things that ain’t real.” 
he typed. 
> How about if we all get together somewhere like we're teenagers having a party and that way we'll have a ready-made excuse if anyone shows up asking us what we're doing there? 
> That would totally work! You're a genius, Jolu. 
> I know it. And you're going to love this: I know just where to do it, too... 
> Where? 
> Sutro baths! 
What would you do if you found out you had a spy in your midst? You could denounce him, put him up against the wall and take him out. But then you might end up with another spy in your midst, and the new spy would be more careful than the last one and maybe not get caught quite so readily. 
Here's a better idea: start intercepting the spy's communications and feed him and his masters misinformation. Say his masters instruct him to gather information on your movements. Let him follow you around and take all the notes he wants, but steam open the envelopes that he sends back to HQ and replace his account of your movements with a fictitious one. If you want, you can make him seem erratic and unreliable so they get rid of him. You can manufacture crises that might make one side or the other reveal the identities of other spies. In short, you own them. 
"I don't have a single, solitary clue. Your mother gives terrible directions, darling. Pull off at the next exit and we'll buy a map." 
"We are going to be: So. Late." 
"But now they know we're late. We have an excuse. You: stop Fretting." 
Once they were on the secondary roads, the creepiness of the highway full of stopped cars and crane-necked drivers gave way to a wind-washed soughing silence of waves and beach and palms. Trish rolled down the window and let the breeze kiss the sweat off her lip, watching the surfers wiping out in the curl as the car sped toward the boneyard. 
"Are you sure this is the kind of thing you're supposed to bring a date to?" 
"Yes," he said. "Don't Fret. That's my job." 
"And you don't think it's even a little weird to take a girl to a cemetery on a date?" 
"We're not burying anyone," he said. "It's just an unveiling." 
"I still don't get that," she said. "I keep picturing your mom cutting a ribbon with a giant pair of gold scissors." 
"Right, let's take it from the top," he said. "And you'd better not be getting me to talk to stop my Fretting, because appealing to my pedantic nature to distract me is a very cheap trick." 
"No," answered Emma Jane after a long pause; "no, it don't; not a mite." 
"Perhaps dizzy isn't just the right word, but it's nearest. I'd like to eat color, and drink it, and sleep in it. If you could be a tree, which one would you choose?" 
Emma Jane had enjoyed considerable experience of this kind, and Rebecca had succeeded in unstopping her ears, ungluing her eyes, and loosening her tongue, so that she could "play the game" after a fashion. 
"I'd rather be an apple-tree in blossom,—that one that blooms pink, by our pig-pen." 
Rebecca laughed. There was always something unexpected in Emma Jane's replies. "I'd choose to be that scarlet maple just on the edge of the pond there,"—and she pointed with the whip. "Then I could see so much more than your pink apple-tree by the pig-pen. I could look at all the rest of the woods, see my scarlet dress in my beautiful looking-glass, and watch all the yellow and brown trees growing upside down in the water. When I'm old enough to earn money, I'm going to have a dress like this leaf, all ruby color—thin, you know, with a sweeping train and ruffly, curly edges; then I think I'll have a brown sash like the trunk of the tree, and where could I be green? Do they have green petticoats, I wonder? I'd like a green petticoat coming out now and then underneath to show what my leaves were like before I was a scarlet maple." 
Cable turns partly toward Ray and rolls his eyes. "They're on their best behavior at the moment. It's all downhill from here. " 
By this time, Kilgore has dragged himself to attention. He snaps off a regulation salute for the captain, and shouts, "Begging the Deck Officer's pardon, sir, but you are unfairly characterizing the efficiency and conduct of this pair of Marines. Respectfully request that you do not screw up this assignment on our behalf, as we two squared away Marines are more than capable of managing same. " 
Cable shakes his head. He is not, apparently, an officer who chooses to stand on ceremony. "Just collect your gear, gentlemen. You're being temporarily reassigned to Commander Marlowe per your briefing last evening. 
Try to be less of a pain in his ass than you are in mine. " 
Kilgore's eyes go wide. To Ray, he says, "You said you weren't an officer." 
"I got promoted." 
"Good for you, sir." He finds a way to sound both patronizing and disgusted. 
More eye rolling from Cable. "Commander, any time you decide you might need directions to the Marine brig, you let me know. Day or night. I'll probably even send an escort detail to give you a hand. " 
Aunt Jane, never demonstrative, cried with Rebecca as she attempted to soothe her. 
"You must be patient," she said, wiping first her own eyes and then Rebecca's. "I haven't told you, for it isn't fair you should be troubled when you're studying so hard, but your aunt Miranda isn't well. One Monday morning about a month ago, she had a kind of faint spell; it wasn't bad, but the doctor is afraid it was a shock, and if so, it's the beginning of the end. Seems to me she's failing right along, and that's what makes her so fretful and easy vexed. She has other troubles too, that you don't know anything about, and if you're not kind to your aunt Miranda now, child, you'll be dreadful sorry some time." 
All the temper faded from Rebecca's face, and she stopped crying to say penitently, "Oh! the poor dear thing! I won't mind a bit what she says now. She's just asked...  was dreading to take it to her, but this will make everything different. Don't worry yet, aunt Jane, for perhaps it won't be as bad as you think." 
I got back to my feet. 
"When the bombs went off," I said, then something welled up in my chest, something painful. "When the bombs went off, there were four of us caught up by Market Street. For whatever reason, the DHS decided that made us suspicious. They put bags over our heads, put us on a ship and interrogated us for days. They humiliated us. Played games with our minds. Then they let us go. 
"All except one person. My best friend. He was with us when they picked us up. He'd been hurt and he needed medical care. He never came out again. They say they never saw him. They say that if we ever tell anyone about this, they'll arrest us and make us disappear. 
"Forever." 
I was shaking. The shame. The goddamned shame. Jolu had the light on me. 
"Oh Christ," I said. "You people are the first ones I've told. If this story gets around, you can bet they'll know who leaked it. You can bet they'll come knocking on my door." I took some more deep breaths. "That's why I volunteered on the Xnet. That's why my life, from now on, is about fighting the DHS. With every breath. Every day. Until we're free again. Any one of you could put me in jail now, if you wanted to." 
"Are you making this movie about a person in this build­ing? Your other films have been documentaries." 
God help me, I thought. Is this what my fans are like? 
Then it hit me. I don't know how I'd missed the connec­tion, but now it just leapt out. First the phone call, then this hood. Somebody was tracking me. 
"I'm scouting locations," I lied, feeling a chill go through me. "We're second unit for an action film, shooting some prep footage for the producers. Does the name Arnold Schwarzenegger mean anything to you?" 
"Then why is the film about babies?" 
"That's meant to be a joke. Remember the movie Twins ? It's a joke title. Do you understand?" 
At that moment, Paul Nulty came barging out the door with a huge klieg light, followed by several other members of the crew carrying sound gear. Our cordial tete-a-tete was about to be disrupted. 
My new Hispanic friend saw them and abruptly drew up. That was when I noticed the shoulder holster under his jacket, containing some sort of snub-nosed pistol. 
“Yet,” he said, then gave me a twisted smile to take the sting out. 
“It was a lot of fun, hanging out with you. I didn’t know how much I’d miss that. I mean, it’s not like I have friends to spare, you know?” 
“Me either.” 
“Well, there’s that guy who gave me your note.” 
He laughed. “That was a long shot. I mean, he stopped and helped, and that was awesome. The bulls would have found me, 
and I’d be locked up by now. But I began to think . . . why would he go to all that trouble? He didn’t even know me, really.” 
“He said he owed you a favor.” 
“Yeah, but so what? People let you down.” 
I thought about the few things he’d told me about growing up. 
Getting dropped off with relatives when he was in the way. Taking care of himself when his parents were too spaced out to remember he was even there. 
“Glad you didn’t let me down,” he murmured drowsily, his voice slurring a little. “I think those pills are starting to work.” 
I felt a little glowing ember warming my chest from his words as I tucked the blanket around him. Even though his forehead was sweaty he was shivering. Nikko and Bree returned and put Wheeze’s stuff into the trunk. He flinched when the trunk slammed shut. If that little bit of movement hurt, it was going to be a tough trip. But by the time Bree had backed out of the thicket and got onto the potholed road, he’d fallen asleep. 
The man's arm around his shoulders was firm, steering him away from the door, out onto the immaculate lawn, past the kitchen's herb garden. "We're giving you a couple of days off," he said. 
Greg felt a cold premonition that sank all the way to his balls. "Why?" Had he done something wrong? Was he going to jail? 
"It's Maya." The man turned him around, met his eyes with his bottomless basset-hound gaze. "It's Maya. Killed herself. In Guatemala. I'm sorry, Greg." 
Greg seemed to hurtle away from himself, to a place miles above, a Google Earth view of the Googleplex, looking down on himself and the rumpled man as a pair of dots, two pixels, tiny and insignificant. He willed himself to tear at his hair, to drop to his knees and weep. 
From a long way away, he heard himself say, "I don't need any time off. I'm OK." 
From a long way away, he heard the rumpled man insist. 
But one-pixel Greg wouldn't be turned aside. The argument persisted for a long time, and then the two pixels moved into Building 49 and the door swung shut behind them. 
I also planned to ask her about all the bizarre trappings surrounding the procedure. Why was the woman so sucked in by his phony Mardi Gras mysticism? Had Sarah fallen for it too? 
"Sara was one of the special ones. You are surely blessed too. You resemble her a lot." She looked at me, affection in her dark eyes, then turned and headed out the door. "But come, let me take you up." 
Of course I resembled her; she was my cousin. But so what? I didn't like the odd way she'd said it. And what about my question? 
Watching her walk away, clearly nervous, I realized this was the moment I'd been dreading—when I had to make a decision about how far to play along with Alex Goddard. Steve couldn't be reached, yet, but I still might be able to handle the situation on my own. The first thing to do was to get down to Sarah and talk some sense into her. Then I had to arrange for a way to get us both out. 
So . . . probably the best way to accomplish that was to go along with my own medical charade for a few more hours, to give me time to scout the scene and come up with a plan. A room would be a base to operate from. 
He held up a hand. Brautigan fell silent. The three of them looked at him. He realized, in a flash, that he had them all in his power, just at that second. He could shout BOO! and they'd all fall off their chairs. They were waiting to see if he'd blow his top or take it and ask for more. He did something else. 
"Nice working with ya," he said. And he turned his back on the sweetest, softest job anyone could ask for. He said adios and buena suerte to Carmela on the way out, and he forced himself not to linger around the outside doors down at street level to see if anyone would come chasing after him. 
The realtor looked at him like he was crazy. "You'll never get two million for that place in today's market," she said. She was young, no-nonsense, black, and she had grown up on the Lower East Side, a fact she mentioned prominently in her advertising materials: A local realtor for a local neighborhood. 
"I paid two million for it less than a year ago," he said. The 80 percent mortgage had worried him a little but Ate had underwritten it, bringing the interest rate down to less than two percent. 
On this Friday she buried her face in the blooming geraniums on Miss Maxwell's plant-stand, selected Romola from one of the bookcases, and sank into a seat by the window with a sigh of infinite content, She glanced at the clock now and then, remembering the day on which she had been so immersed in David Copperfield that the Riverboro train had no place in her mind. The distracted Emma Jane had refused to leave without her, and had run from the station to look for her at Miss Maxwell's. There was but one later train, and that went only to a place three miles the other side of Riverboro, so that the two girls appeared at their respective homes long after dark, having had a weary walk in the snow. 
When she had read for half an hour she glanced out of the window and saw two figures issuing from the path through the woods. The knot of bright hair and the coquettish hat could belong to but one person; and her companion, as the couple approached, proved to be none other than Mr. Aladdin. Huldah was lifting her skirts daintily and picking safe stepping-places for the high-heeled shoes, her cheeks glowing, her eyes sparkling under the black and white veil. 
“You, too, Arthur,” I said, loudly and heartlessly, trying to stamp down savagely on that hurt feeling. For some reason I felt as if I had been the one to cause it. “Get out.” 
He stood reluctantly. “I’m coming back to check on you in an hour,” he warned. “Drink some water.” 
“Thanks, Mom,” I said. 
Arthur glanced back at me one last time, his expression worried. Checker didn’t look back at all. 
I put the pillow over my face and wrapped my arms around it, half-hoping I would accidentally smother myself, and tried not to think. I considered getting up and rooting around for something to make myself feel better, but Arthur would’ve cleaned me out. Not that I couldn’t get more, but that seemed like so much effort. 
He better at least have left the alcohol. I was off contract now; he had to know how fucked I’d be if he hadn’t. 
My cell phone rang, the jangle loud and piercing and right by my ear. 
I flailed against the couch cushions and yanked out the phone, prepared to let it fly against the nearest hard surface at exactly the right angle so it would shatter into at least five pieces. As I drew back my arm to throw, I caught the number on the caller ID. 
“They aren’t coming,” I said. 
“Wait, what? Russell—” 
“You can watch and wait if you want,” I said. But I couldn’t. If I did, I might compromise the whole plan. My eye fell on the scattered computer components. “I have to fix this,” I said, putting down the gun. 
“Russell—” started Arthur again. His tone clearly thought I had gone insane. 
I forced myself to turn my back to the door. “It’s important,” I said, and picked up a circuit board as if it had meaning. It was a PCI card of some kind. I didn’t even know what it did. 
I took the utility knife and started prying tiny microchips off it. They went flying into the chaos of components with tiny pings. 
They weren’t so loud that I couldn’t hear the footsteps in the hallway. 
It was only one set of footsteps this time. One light, quiet set of footsteps. 
Arthur was silent, and didn’t fire. 
I was gripping the utility knife so hard my hand was shaking. I still held the PCI card in my other hand, but my brain was buzzing so madly with something I was fairly sure was terror that I couldn’t even remember what I was pretending to be doing with it. 
Sean's father reeled back, and Sean swallowed a throb of anger. "Of course not, Grampa. I understand. It's a reflex. The world's full of sops who'll take offence at any little thing" -- Lara shriveling under the heat of his tongue, and him still watching the TV over her shoulder -- "but it's a reflex . It's not conscious. It's no one's fault ." 
"Don't humor me," Grampa snapped. "I know what you all think of me. I can feel your goddamn blame. I can't do anything about it." 
"You could apologize," Ethan said. Adele took his hand and wiped at her tears with its back. 
"Fuck off, zombie," Grampa said, glaring at him. 
Sean's father stood abruptly. "I'm glad to see you're in good health, Pop," he said. "Sean, thanks for the ride. I guess I'll see you once you've finished your research." His face was hard, composed. "Adele, nice to have met you." 
"Likewise," Adele said. 
"Bye, then," Sean's father said, and walked with dignified calm to the elevator. 
"Bye, Dad," Sean called softly at his retreating back. 
Robbie froze. That wasn’t a human-shell, it was a human . His oar-servo whined as he tipped it up. There was a live human being on the end of that oar, and she was in trouble, panicking and thrashing. He saw her arms straining. The oar went higher, but it was at the end of its motion and now she was half-in, half-out of the water, weight belt, tank and gear tugging her down. Isaac sat motionless, his habitual good-natured slight smile on his face. 
“Help her!” Robbie screamed. “Please, for Asimov’s sake, help her!” A robot may not harm a human being, or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm. It was the first commandment. Isaac remained immobile. It wasn’t in his programming to help a fellow diver in this situation. He was perfect in the water and on the surface, but once he was in the boat, he might as well be ballast. 
Robbie carefully swung the oar toward the gunwale, trying to bring her closer, but not wanting to mash her hands against the locks. She panted and groaned and reached out for the boat, and finally landed a hand on it. The sun was fully set now, not that it mattered much to Robbie, but he knew that Janet wouldn’t like it. He switched on his running lights and headlights, turning himself into a beacon. 
The two walked along together, Adam comforting the disconsolate Emma Jane, until they reached the old meeting-house where the Commencement exercises were always held. The interior, with its decorations of yellow, green, and white, was crowded, the air hot and breathless, the essays and songs and recitations precisely like all others that have been since the world began. One always fears that the platform may sink under the weight of youthful platitudes uttered on such occasions; yet one can never be properly critical, because the sight of the boys and girls themselves, those young and hopeful makers of to-morrow, disarms one's scorn. We yawn desperately at the essays, but our hearts go out to the essayists, all the same, for "the vision splendid" is shining in their eyes, and there is no fear of "th' inevitable yoke" that the years are so surely bringing them. 
Rebecca saw Hannah and her husband in the audience; dear old John and cousin Ann also, and felt a pang at the absence of her mother, though she had known there was no possibility of seeing her; for poor Aurelia was kept at Sunnybrook by cares of children and farm, and lack of money either for the journey or for suitable dress. The Cobbs she saw too. No one, indeed, could fail to see uncle Jerry; for he shed tears more than once, and in the intervals between the essays descanted to his neighbors concerning the marvelous gifts of one of the graduating class whom he had known ever since she was a child; in fact, had driven her from Maplewood to Riverboro when she left her home, and he had told mother that same night that there wan't nary rung on the ladder o' fame that that child wouldn't mount before she got through with it. 
I glanced over his shoulder, and he blanked the screen, asking, “What’d Arthur say?” 
“Eastern Europe.” I responded to what I’d seen him looking at instead of the question. “There’s no reason to think Martinez is there. Arthur’s right; you’re still looking for the Lancer.” 
He was silent for a moment. “So what if I am? He’s dangerous. He very well might come after you and Professor Sonya again.” 
Far too slowly, shreds of a conversation with Pilar came back to me. It felt as if I was dredging them up from a lifetime ago. “The Lancer,” I said. “Or...the little guy blowing up all the buildings. D.J. You went up against them before?” 
Checker’s hand froze on his mouse. “Who?” 
“The Lancer had a pyro expert. Short, black, rotund, way too excited about dynamite. Someone you know?” 
Checker still hadn’t moved. “You didn’t tell me.” 
“It, uh, it slipped my mind.” I swallowed. Guilt nibbled at me. I had the distinct impression Checker had tried to say something to me about this before, and Pilar certainly had, and I...well, it somehow never occurred to me that I should try to be a friend back. “Do you need a hand? We’re not making much headway on Martinez; if you want to—” 
Okay, for once I wasn’t going to accuse him of exaggeration. “Shit, what do they want? Do you need me to come over there and—” 
“What? No! I mean, I don’t think so. I’m not under arrest or—or—whatever else they do to overzealous white hat dudes who are creative enough to step out of the narrowly confined boxes proscribed by our myopic legal system. They don’t even seem terribly interested in what I do, only what I know about Professor Sonya’s case, and trust me, I am not disabusing them of the notion that I am a small fry beneath their notice.” He paused unhappily, and the hyperbole went out of his voice. “I just...I just don’t like them in my house.” 
I got that. 
“What’s going on with Arthur?” Checker asked. “Is he okay? I didn’t want to call in case you—” 
“He’s fine. He had a building fall on him.” 
A full six seconds passed before Checker sputtered, “He what? Is he okay?” 
“Are you having trouble hearing me? I said he’s fine.” 
Checker didn’t answer. 
“Don’t you dare feel bad for him. He did it to himself.” He should’ve stuck with me. “Besides, he got underneath something. He’s fine.” 
"That's one more than almost anyone else can claim." There were two other firms like Ate. He thought of them in his head as Sefen and Nein, as though invoking their real names might cause them to appear. "I'm new here, but I'm not alone. We're tied in with some of the finest designers, engineers, research scientists..." Again with the ellipsis. "You wanted to get to the good part. This isn't the good part, Ria. You've got smart people. We've got smart people. What we have, what you don't have, is smart people who are impedance-mismatched to your organization. Every organization has quirks that make it unsuited to working with some good people and good ideas. You've got your no-go areas, just like anyone else. We're good at mining that space, the no-go space, the mote in your eye, for things that you need." 
She nodded and slapped her hands together like someone about to start a carpentry project. "That's a great spiel," she said. 
He felt a little blush creep into his cheeks. "I think about this a lot, rehearse it in my head." 
Coop them up, drill them with books and tests." 
"I'm a little surprised by the curriculum. It's quite advanced." 
"Some of our children are quite advanced. Others lag significantly behind the educational level they should have attained. Not all situations are ideal, as you can imagine, but all of the children in the Trust have great potential. We look for that potential and help them develop it. Perhaps it is not the ideal of mother, father, 
siblings, but it is better in many cases than the lives we cull them from. But we attempt to give them the  facsimile of family as we go along. " 
Ray feels a flush of embarrassment. "I didn't intend to sound critical." 
"But you wondered about their emotional well-being, these orphans on their way to a strange land amongst strange people." 
"Sure. I mean, kids are resilient, but losing your parents is a pretty big blow to try to bounce back from." 
Amah nods. "For some. Others have been without parents, comforts, love for several years. Those cases are more difficult, and it takes longer for the colony to embrace them-or for them to embrace the colony." 
This is perhaps a not so subtle indication that she wants to drop the subject, so Ray lets her. He's gotten enough out of the business portion of this lunch to justify the expense on the cred pool to Becker. 
"So where do I fit into these future plans?" 
"You would be the High Priest, Ray, shielding my glory from the masses, worshipping at my altar, heeding my every command." 
She comes across as completely earnest, so Ray nods playfully. "It's been too long since the universe has seen a well conducted theocracy." 
"I'm glad you see it that way, my love." 
My love. Hearing her say it sends a thrill through him like a jolt of electricity. While he marvels over her, 
Gino arrives with their food. He makes a big show of distributing plates and rhapsodizing over the perfection of the preparation, the presentation, the complexity of the culinary issues. All the sprawling and glorious history of Italy from trilobite dawn to this morning's news has conspired to bring them this moment, these dishes, a palate- shattering explosion of delight. 
“Never heard the name. Anyhow, she wanted to go there after we got married, and—I wish you wouldn’t look like that!” 
“But I’m so awfully sorry for you!” 
“It was pretty hard, at first,” he said; “but—well, you see, I’ve thought a bit about it, and after all I’m glad we didn’t get married.” 
“Oh!” cried Lexy, profoundly shocked. “But that’s—” 
“Because I—you see, she didn’t—well, I don’t think she really liked me very much.” 
Lexy was astounded. 
“Fact!” said he. “What she wanted was romance, and all that sort of thing. She wanted to get away from home, and I was the only chance she had; so there you are!” 
“That wasn’t very fair to you!” 
“I don’t blame her,” he said thoughtfully. “We were both—but what’s the sense of talking about all that? The thing is to find her!” 
Lexy agreed to that promptly. 
“Now I’ll tell you everything that’s happened,” she said. 
He listened to her with alert attention. He interrupted her often to ask questions, but they were always questions that she could answer. He wanted all the facts, and what Lexy told him he unquestioningly accepted as fact. When she said she had seen Caroline at the doctor’s house, he believed her. He didn’t suggest that her eyes might have deceived her. He trusted her—not only her good intentions, but her good sense. 
She seized the paper and endorsed it with a flourish. 
My pulse was still in overdrive, but I hugged her, then signaled the crew that shooting was over for the day. 
"Okay, everybody. Time to wrap." 
The gang immediately began striking the lights and rolling up electrical cords. They would take the equipment back downtown and deliver the film to the lab, while I would head home. It had been a long day and lots of thinking was needed. Besides, it was starting to rain, a dismal spatter against Paula's grimy windows, as the gray spring afternoon had begun darkening toward sullen evening. 
"Listen, I enjoyed this." Paula had taken Rachel in her arms and was stroking her blond hair. "I really love talking about her. She's changed my life." 
I gave her another hug. "You're great. And you're going to be wonderful in the film." If I used her. The whole thing was getting unnerving. "You have no idea how much you've helped." Then I said good-bye to Rachel, who responded with a perfect "Bye, bye" through her haze of spaghetti sauce. 
who is really good with data sets and visualization, started a new thread where people brainstormed how to find patterns in all the stuff we were kicking up. Three hours later, ferret posted the results. 
<ferret> Okay, it's preliminary, but our best guess is that Zip is Jason Bristol, first arrested on a fraud charge in 2006. When he was facing serious federal charges in 2012 he went off the radar. Like totally off. 
<ferret> And - drumroll please - we think his handler is Special Agent Todd Terhune, who worked on our boy' s first fraud case when he was an investigator for the Illinois State's Attorney. He's now FBI working out of the Min- neapolis field office. 
<ferret> I've got a visualization that shows these two have the most points in common when mapped over time and space. 
He posted a link to it, a trippy, colorful, three-dimensional rotating tangle of lines and dots. When you clicked on it, the colored lines erased themselves, one by one, until only two were left, circling and intersecting, two timelines for two people, one a crook and one a cop, turned into wobbly lines that crossed over one another again and again. 
"Hi, Morgy." 
It was a tentative utterance I'd heard only once before, when she was waking up after falling off a playground swing. She'd been knocked out cold for a moment and I'd been frantic, wetting a handkerchief in the nearby fountain and desperately rubbing it over her face. When she came to, she'd gazed up into my eyes and greeted me as though we'd just met. 
My God! 
Before I could recover and say anything, Lou came back on. "We're practicing eating chicken-noodle soup. And we're trying to do a little talking. Why don't you come on down? She asked about you earlier this morning, said, 'Where's Morgy?' " 
"Lou! This is incredible!" 
"You gotta believe in miracles, right? Just come on down." 
"Is she . . . God, you've got it." My hopes went into orbit as I clicked off the phone and revved my engine. 
I could have swamped him with a lot of questions then and there, but I immediately decided I wanted to see her first, with my own eyes. I still couldn't quite believe it was true. On the other hand, a weekend partial recovery was not totally beyond the realm of medical possibility. With a coma, so little is understood that anything's possible. Lou was right. This was definitely a weekend of the unexpected. 
“Okay,” said Checker, the word fragile and drawn out. 
“I’ll call you once I’ve got Halliday.” 
“Okay. You’d better.” 
I didn’t know why I found his concern so irritating. 
I zipped the little old Honda out to the first industrial park Checker and I had identified. It was a sprawling complex of warehouses, with a network of driveways in between wide connecting parking lots. Through the gate at the entrance I could see rows of white tractor trailers, and beer-heavy men in jeans shouted to each other as they lowered loading gates and hauled crates in and out. The place was a beehive of activity. Several prominently placed signs indicated it might be an ice packing...  on the sign made it hard to tell. 
Checker had said he’d be looking into the people whose names were on the real estate I was checking out, but he’d warned me it might not be helpful if the bad guys were using well-laid shell corporations or simply squatting. It looked like he didn’t have to investigate this one. 
I drove to the next location. 
I resisted the urge to crash the jeep on purpose. Not that I had much to crash it into, out here, but I could have managed. The correct angle against one of those little scrub bushes... 
“You do realize they’re not the only ones who want a piece of you, right? In case our lovely drug running friends neglected to tell you before they dumped you in a basement, the authorities are scouring California for you. Narcotics trafficking and murder, I hear. What, were all the cool kids doing it?” 
She winced away, hunching into herself. “I swear I didn’t know they were using the shipments to smuggle drugs. I only called my boss when I got stopped because that’s what they told us to do. It’s not my fault.” 
Yeah, yeah. Her sister had tearfully shown me a copy of the police report—driver stopped for running a light, drugs found, more gang members who’d shown up and shot the cops, taking back the truck and driver both. The report had heavily implicated Courtney in every way. 
When she’d hired me, Dawna Polk had insisted her sister wouldn’t have hurt a fly. Personally, I hadn’t particularly cared if the girl was guilty or not. A job was a job. 
“He told me what had happened. He said that as soon as he knew Captain Grey was coming, he began to look for some one to take his poor wife’s place. The captain hadn’t seen his sister since she was a baby, you know, and all he knew was that she was tall and dark. Dr. Quelton said he had arranged for some one to come from a hospital; and then he found me. He drove by just a little while after the accident, and he found the poor driver dead and me unconscious. He found a letter to mother in my purse, and he mailed it afterward. Then he heard another car coming along the road, and he started the engine and sent the taxi—with the dead driver in his seat—crashing down the hill, to run into the other car. He wanted the driver’s death to look like an accident. He didn’t care if the other man were killed. He’s—he’s not human, Lexy! He told me he had never in his life cared for any one except his wife. He told me what a beautiful, wonderful woman she was—and yet he had stolen her emerald when she was dying. Love! He couldn’t love any one!” 
and photos of other people who had been arrested in fake terror- ist stings. Then pictures of my brother and his friends, things she must have found online. 
There was Wilson lying in a hammock looking sleepy and innocent. Wilson and Emily holding up matching hand stamps from some concert, clowning for the camera. Their friends sitting around a fire in the overgrown backyard, the light flickering off their faces, all of them looking young and happy in their peaceable corner of a messed-up world. It ended with the familiar video of my brother and his friends being led out of their house with their hands cuffed behind them and my eyes welled up with tears. She made me feel proud and hopeful and angry and ready to fight for justice. But those photos of my brother had opened something up inside me and it hurt. I pictured Wilson, sitting in a cell, worrying that there would be no more hammocks for him, no campfires, no goofing off with his friends. Just cells and scratchy uniforms and rules, surrounded by people full of anger and violence. 
"Maybe he is, maybe he isn't," Adele said. "But it makes me feel better. He's what I've got left. If you'd like, I'll wait with the car so you can go in and look for your father." 
"No," Sean said. "That's all right. Dad'll come out for a cab. He's not the sort to dawdle." 
"I like a decisive man. That's why I talked to you by the pool -- you just jumped in, because you wanted a swim." 
"Adele, that was stupid . It was like swimming in a urine sample." 
"Same difference. I like a man who can make up his mind. That's what Ethan's father was like: decisive." 
"You'll like my Dad," Sean said. He drummed his fingers on the wheel, then lowered and raised his window. He whistled tunelessly through his teeth. Adele gave him a considering stare and he stopped, and started in on powers of two in his head. 
"There he is," Sean said, 224 later. 
Sean had barely been in Florida for three days, but it was long enough that his father seemed as pale as freezer-burned ice cream. Sean checked the traffic in his rear-view, then pulled across the waiting area to where his father stood, acing out an irate cabbie for the spot. 
I went inside and told Rhindquist to Get it in gear! And he just tossed me the paper he was reading. It said MEMO TO ALL EMPLOYEES REGARDING NEW SECURITY MEASURES. And underneath, it said, EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY ALL AC OUTLETS ARE TO BE COVERED WHEN NOT IN USE. 
We laughed and laughed and laughed, and then my watch blipped back on even though Rhindquist had turned it off! It said, "Laugh it up, retards!" in Tony's voice. 
Rhindquist put his arm around my shoulders and said Jap my prodigy, when you are right, you are right . He's the perfect man for the job. 
Sean had a way of getting his way -- a way of delivering argument that implied that everyone in earshot was savvy and bold, and that the diatribe-du-jour was directed at the Enemies of Art ranged without. His thesis advisor bought it every time. Sean turned in his due-diligence, a bunch of theses written in the last century: collected memoirs of the survivors of electroshock, lobotomies, thalidomide. His advisor signed off and within twenty-four hours, he was debarking in Orlando and renting a car to take him to the Home. 
No wonder they all stayed away from the office. 
Ria met him in a different pair of jeans, these ones worn and patched at the knees. She had on a loose, flowing silk shirt that was frayed around the seams, and had tied her hair back with a kerchief that had faded to a non-color that was like the ancient New York sidewalk outside Ate's office. He felt the calluses on her hand when they shook. 
"You look like you're ready to do some gardening," he said. 
"My shift at the club," she said. "I'll be trimming the lime trees and tending the mint patch and the cucumber frames all afternoon." She smiled and stopped him with a gesture. She bent down and plucked a blade of greenery from the untidy trail-edge. They were in Central Park, in one of the places where it felt like a primeval forest instead of an artful garden razed and built in the middle of the city. She uncapped her water bottle and poured water over the herb -- it looked like a blade of grass -- rubbing it between her forefinger and thumb to scrub at it. Then she tore it in two and handed him one piece, held the other to her nose, then ate it, nibbling and making her nose wrinkle like a rabbit's. He followed suit. Lemon, delicious and tangy. 
Ray executes a sharp turn back toward the alcove. Along the blast wall are dabbed a series of straight lines of assorted colors that stretch in both directions down the length of the corridor. The green line is broken by the words Crew Quarters. Red by Primary Reactor Control. Particle Research Laboratory #1. Security Checkpoint. And so on. Leave it to engineers, he thinks, to suck the mystery right out of a situation. 
From the interminable distance, there is a scream— long, wailing, guttering to silence like a torch in the rain. It brings Kilgore and Rodriguez out into the hall with their weapons pressed butt to shoulder, sighting along the barrel for targets. 
Ray counts out their objectives a finger at a time, just to make sure they're clear. "First we check on reactor control. Then we eliminate the shed. Last we help the survivors. I'm on point; the two of you are wing and cover fire." Their roles were perfectly obvious, but Ray covers the terrain anyway. It is what they all expect. 
“No,” she said again. “You’re mistaken.” 
“ I saw the body! ” her mother said, shrieking like Trover. “I held his head! He is dead , Vale!” 
Valentine didn’t understand what her mother was saying, but she certainly didn’t want to hang around the flat and listen to this raving. 
She turned on her heel and walked out of the flat. It was full dark out and there was snow on the ground and wet snow whipping along in the wind and she didn’t have her too-small winter coat on, but she wasn’t going to stay and listen to her mother’s nonsense. 
On the corner a man from the city told her she was breaking curfew and told her to go home or she’d end up getting herself shot. She shivered and glared at him and ignored him and set off in a random direction. She certainly wasn’t going to stand on that corner and listen to his lunacy. 
There were soldiers drinking in a cellar on another street and they called out to her and what they said wasn’t the kind of thing you said to a little girl, though she knew well enough what it meant. Now she was cold and soaked through and shivering uncontrollably and she didn’t know where she was and her father was— She began to run. 
He was silent for a moment. “She’s your client,” he said finally. “I only want to see where she leads.” 
I scowled. “Compassionate man.” Pot, kettle, it was true, but he wouldn’t know me well enough to point it out. 
Tresting’s knuckles tightened against the steering wheel. “Rather she don’t end up dead. But she murdered my client’s husband, and I’m gonna find who put her up to it.” 
In fairness, he had a far guiltier conscience about putting Courtney in danger than I would have, had our positions been reversed. “One thing I don’t understand. If you got close enough to plant the tracker, why not interrogate her then? Why wave a gun at me so unsuccessfully at the motel?” 
He didn’t rise to the bait, only let a frustrated breath hiss out through his teeth. “Didn’t get close enough. Got the opportunity to slip one into her food when the drug runners had her.” 
And he’d figured a GPS would cover all bases in case he had to follow Courtney back to...well, to her masters, if Tresting was to be believed. 
There was a long pause. 
Leon pressed on. "No deal unless you take it," he said. 
"You have some?" 
"I can make some. I'll need to talk to some lab-techs and download some of my research first." 
"Will you take it with me?" 
He didn't hesitate. "Never." 
"I'll take it," Viktor said, and hung up. 
Ria took his hand again. Leaned forward. Gave him a dry, firm kiss on the mouth. Leaned back. 
"Thank you," she said. 
"Don't thank me," he said. "I'm not doing you any favors." 
She stood up, pulling him to his feet. 
"Welcome to the team," she said. "Welcome to Viktor." 
The doomed rogue AI is called BIGMAC and he is my responsibility. Not my responsibility as in "I am the creator of BIGMAC, responsible for his existence on this planet." That honor belongs to the long-departed Dr Shannon, one of the shining lights of the once great Sun-Oracle Institute for Advanced Studies, and he had been dead for years before I even started here as a lowly sysadmin. 
No, BIGMAC is my responsibility as in, "I, Odell Vyphus, am the systems administrator responsible for his care, feeding and eventual euthanizing." Truth be told, I'd rather be Dr Shannon (except for the being dead part). I may be a lowly grunt, but I'm smart enough to know that being the Man Who Gave The World AI is better than being The Kid Who Killed It. 
Newton’s Second Law. I needed enough deceleration against the wall, times the mass of the car, to generate sufficient force. Subtract the amount that would be absorbed by the hood crumpling—fucking safety measures—and backtrack through the equation to find the necessary speed at impact. 
Oh, and check my own acceleration against the seatbelt. Wouldn’t do to break through the wall only to kill myself. I wasn’t fond of the idea of cracking a rib or two, either. 
The numbers fell out pleasantly, provided I hit at the minimum necessary speed. Just bruising. Bruising I could handle. 
The car was a stick shift. I pressed the clutch and revved the engine, watching the RPMs climb. Two thousand, three thousand—heading for the power band— If I fucked this up I’d either smash into a brick wall and wreck the car with nothing to show for it, or go in too hot and put myself in the hospital. Maybe Checker had a point about asking for backup. 
Well, too late now. I slipped the clutch and goosed the gas, and the car leapt forward like it had been shot out of a cannon. 
The ewok turned to her. 
She said, "Well, we've heard a great deal about the impossibility of building democratic fundamentals into the network, but nothing about the possibilities. This hard, no-compromise line is belied by the fact that we know that the rich and powerful manipulate the network to their own advantage, something that statistics have proven out --" 
"See, this is exactly how these Human-Readable types do it, it's how their media training goes. They are here to ask for changes to technical specifications, but they disavow any technical knowledge, and when they're called on this, they spout dubious 'statistics' that 'prove' that up is down, black is white, and that millionaires can get to the movies in half the time that paupers can. The Emergent Network Suppliers' Industry Association represents the foremost experts in this field, but you don't need to be an expert to know that these networks work . The ants take us where we want to go, in the shortest time, with the highest reliability. Anyone who doubts that can dig out her map and compass and sextant and try to navigate the world without their assistance, the way they do in Europe." 
“What? No. Did you talk to them?” 
“I called Peter and tried to reassure him that we were okay, that I understood their concerns and we had made a plan to address them. But... 
“This sounds bad.” 
“Yeah.” Monica took a deep breath. “It’s bad. He was not receptive.” 
“Did you tell him I’m not . . . crap.” My phone made the annoy- ing buzzing it makes when another call is coming in. “He’s calling me, now. I’m not answering.” I closed my laptop and got up. I didn’t want anyone to listen to this conversation, so I went out- side into the cold and walked up and down the sidewalk, trying to keep an eye on my stuff through the window while my thoughts whirled. 
“We’re going to have to deal with this, Zen.” 
“Not now. Not tonight. I have stuff to do. It’s important.” 
“They’re coming to our apartment at seven o’clock. They are going to be really upset if you’re not there.” 
“So, they’ll be upset. They didn’t ask me if it was convenient.” 
“Listen, if you’re home when they get here, maybe we can talk this through and come up with a compromise. If you don’t show up, I’m pretty certain they’re going to revoke my parental author- ity. If that happens, there’s nothing we can do.” 
I knelt down and rolled my sleeping bag, trying to clear my head. Then I stuffed my still-moist clothes into my back­pack and thought about the river, the Rio Tigre, down some­where at the back of the pyramid. And I felt my pulse rate edging up. The first thing I wanted to do was see it in the light of day. It had been Sarah's way out, the only thing I knew for sure she'd touched. 
Get going and do it. 
I headed through the rear door and down the back steps. When I reached the ground, the dense forest closed in around me, but I was certain the river lay dead ahead, through the tangle of trees. As I moved down a path that grew ever steeper, the canopy up above thickened, arching over me till it blotted out the pure blue of the sky. And the air was filled with nature sounds—birdcalls, trills, songs, and clacks, all mingled with the hum and buzz of insects. Then suddenly, from somewhere up in the canopy, a pack of screeching spi­der monkeys began flinging rotten mangos down in my di­rection. I also thought I heard the asthmatic, territorial roar of a giant howler monkey, the lord of the upper jungle. And what about snakes? I kept an eye on the vines and tendrils alongside the path, expecting any moment to stumble across a deadly fer-de-lance, a little red-and-black operator whose poison heads straight for your nervous system. 
“That’s why their resource structure is so complicated,” I said. “The money laundering, and layering, and—the number of accountants they must have had over the years to build all this, it’s staggering. It’s like looking at the code to an operating system.” Rio and Arthur both looked blank. I wished I were talking to Checker instead. “Complicated,” I clarified. “It’s very complicated. And whoever put all this together in one document was—well, a colossal idiot, but on the other hand, I don’t think Reginald Kingsley realized what he had his hands on. I bet he only knew it was something crazy and important. And it’s probably what got him killed. If he hadn’t found the drive, Pithica wouldn’t even have looked at him—their activities are too massive. They don’t sweat the small stuff; they’re too big to care about most of us.” I nodded at Rio. “You should feel complimented, I guess.” 
“But they went after Leena,” said Arthur. “And they did go after you, and me—” 
“Only after we were onto Dawna,” I reminded him. “And she only approached me because of my connection to Rio. Arthur, you and I are ants compared to this.” The scale of it gave me a dizzying vertigo, like looking up at a massive skyscraper. “But we’re in luck, in a way. Pithica is so massive and sprawling, and I think that’s why they’ve made mistakes. First, they botched Kingsley’s murder—Courtney must’ve been convenient because she was already brainwashed and in the area, but she lost track of the drive, or didn’t hand it over, or something. They should have sent someone competent, or, hell, Dawna should have gone herself, even if Kingsley seemed like a minor player. Maybe they didn’t know what was on the drive till later.” 
Adele tsk ed and scowled. 
"Do I scare you, Mitch?" Grampa said, to Sean's father. 
"Yes," Sean's father said. 
"Yes," Grampa said. "Next question." 
"Do you think that switching off is a sign of weakness?" Sean said, sneaking a glance at his father, seeing his grandfather's features echoed in his father's face. 
"Yes," his father said. 
"Of course," his grandfather said. 
"Then why?" Sean said. 
"You know why," Ethan said, his eyes glittering. 
They all swiveled to look at him. "Because the alternative is the purest shit," Ethan said, standing up, starting to pace, almost shouting to make himself heard over the din of the ward. "Because if you have to ask, you'll never understand. Because dessert is better than dinner, because the cherry on top is the best part of the sundae. Because strength is over-rated." 
Grampa applauded briefly, sardonically. "Because holding your nose and taking your medicine is awful. Because boredom is a suppurating wound on the mind. Because self-discipline is over-rated. You getting all this, Sean?" 
> That's what I wanted to ask you -- how many people can you totally vouch for like trust them to the ends of the earth? 
> Um 20 or 30 or so. 
> I want to get a bunch of really trustworthy people together and do a key-exchange web of trust thing. 
Web of trust is one of those cool crypto things that I'd read about but never tried. It was a nearly foolproof way to make sure that you could talk to the people you trusted, but that no one else could listen in. The problem is that it requires you to physically meet with the people in the web at least once, just to get started. 
> I get it sure. That's not bad. But how you going to get everyone together for the key-signing? 
> That's what I wanted to ask you about -- how can we do it without getting busted? 
Jolu typed some words and erased them, typed more and erased them. 
> Darryl would know. 
I typed. 
> God, this was the stuff he was great at. 
> How about a party? 
he typed. 
> How about if we all get together somewhere like we're teenagers having a party and that way we'll have a ready-made excuse if anyone shows up asking us what we're doing there? 
"You're welcome. I guess." Balls? I adored those vulner­able male bits, but I preferred not to think of myself in those terms. Truth was, Nicky Russo played a large part in my personal anxieties. "But I mean it. N. O." 
"I hear you," he said, sighing. Then he snapped back to the moment. "So where do things stand otherwise?" 
I'd come for an after-the-fact green light of the day's shoot, but already I was thinking about Hannah Klein. "David, I'm going to find out in about an hour whether Steve and I are ever going to have a baby. But truthfully I don't think I'm pregnant. I think it's over." It hurt to say it. He knew about Steve and me—I'd written some language on maternity leave into my contract—and I think he was mildly rooting for us. Or maybe not. 
"Could be it's all for the best," he declared. He'd sat back down, picked up a pencil off his desk to distract himself, and was whirling it pensively, one of his few habits that made me crazy. "Maybe you were destined to make movies, not kids." 
Skinny shook his head. Big Guy tried to catch his eye. He didn’t say it out loud, but I could read his impatient body lan- guage. It’s going wrong. Let’s call this off before it’s too late. I had to find a way to make them stay. 
“You know how on the news they keep talking about the tenth one?” I said. “The fugitive they’re chasing? You’re after the wrong person. He wasn’t even involved. I’m the tenth one. My brother tried to keep me out of it, but they got themselves arrested and now I’m the only one left.” 
Big Guy wasn’t impressed. “This isn’t what we had planned.” 
Skinny brushed it aside with a gesture and studied me. I could sense the gears turning as he reworked their strategy. 
“What the hell?” Danny came trotting down the stairs in sweats and a ratty T-shirt, combing fingers through his bed-head. 
“You’re early.” 
“Nope,” Skinny said brightly. “Eleven on the dot.” 
“It was set for noon.” 
“Sorry about that. Must have got mixed up.” 
“And what’s she doing here?” 
“Avenging my brother.” I wondered if I was laying it on too thick, but Skinny was intrigued. 
“Are you going to try to stop me, then?” 
“No. You are quite capable of looking after yourself.” 
I blinked. He did still trust my skills, then—at least against anyone who wasn’t Pithica. The sense of disgruntlement I hadn’t even realized I’d been feeling against Rio faded somewhat. 
“At least wait until we’ve finished our end of it,” begged Checker. “Come on, this isn’t the movies; we can’t just hit ‘send all.’ Who knows what other difficulties we might run into.” 
“You’re right,” I said. I went over to Checker and tossed the phone back to Rio. “I should stay here and work. You mind taking a ride and making the call?” 
Checker groaned. 
“What do I ask for?” said Rio. 
“A man called Steve,” I answered. “Tell him what we’re doing.” 
“We’ll need high-level, verified alerts sent out to a variety of government organizations, both here and overseas,” said Checker, giving up. “Here in the U.S. it’ll be the Secret Service—I can put together a list, but with the whole shadowy multinational organization thing they have going, they might know better than we would. Some support on spoofing our messages to the banks to be authentic would be helpful, too.” 
“What? Oh, uh, yeah. Good. Cas, remember when I said that thing about personal worst nightmares and end times? I just—this is—” 
I wasn’t interested. “Set it up so the Lancer thinks I’m taking a meeting and thinks he can track me down, somewhere with no bystanders to get in the way. Text me the location.” 
“I—okay.” 
He sounded so dispirited. I sighed. “We’ll kick this case in the balls and get the professor back. You’ll see.” Arthur would see. 
“That’s not what I—okay. Okay. I’ll set it up.” 
I hung up. 
I dropped the phone on the passenger seat of the car I was jacking and leaned my head against the steering wheel, my hands in my lap. The bandage had come off my left one at some point. It didn’t look worse than the other, though; both hands were caked in blood and dirt. 
I should drive to one of my bolt holes and patch myself up. And sleep. Sleep until Checker texted me with a location, one where, hopefully, the Lancer’s crew would swoop in to trap me and take me to Sonya Halliday. 
"Your esteemed contribution entitled Wareham Wildflowers has been accepted for The Pilot, Miss Perkins," said Rebecca, entering the room where Emma Jane was darning the firm's stockings. "I stayed to tea with Miss Maxwell, but came home early to tell you." 
"You are joking, Becky!" faltered Emma Jane, looking up from her work. 
"Not a bit; the senior editor read it and thought it highly instructive; it appears in the next issue." 
"Not in the same number with your poem about the golden gates that close behind us when we leave school?"—and Emma Jane held her breath as she awaited the reply. 
"Even so, Miss Perkins." 
"Rebecca," said Emma Jane, with the nearest approach to tragedy that her nature would permit, "I don't know as I shall be able to bear it, and if anything happens to me, I ask you solemnly to bury that number of The Pilot with me." 
Rebecca did not seem to think this the expression of an exaggerated state of feeling, inasmuch as she replied, "I know; that's just the way it seemed to me at first, and even now, whenever I'm alone and take out the Pilot back numbers to read over my contributions, I almost burst with pleasure; and it's not that they are good either, for they look worse to me every time I read them." 
I pushed myself up, stumbling, my boots sliding in the jagged depths of the rubble. “And you’re willing to blow yourself up for that? You’re willing to drag all the rest of us down with you? Me and Checker and Pilar, we’ll end up buried in buildings or buried by the DHS, and that’s just fine with you, isn’t it?” 
I couldn’t see his face in the darkness. “I’m sorry, Russell. I should’ve gone to the authorities in the first place, this was too big—” 
It was the worst possible thing he could’ve said. “Go to the cops, then,” I spat. “I hope you and Homeland Security are very happy together.” 
I left Arthur sitting in the dark and struggled down off the heap of rubble. Fortunately, an impound lot gave me ample choice of a new vehicle. 
I expected to hear sirens on my way out, but there was nothing. The processing center was on its own lot, out of line-of-sight of its nearest neighbors—maybe people had thought the implosion had been an earthquake. 
The cops would get here eventually, though. Arthur could go to hell and join them. 
"You like me, don't you?" 
She nodded miserably. "For years," she said. 
Oh, God. Darryl, all these years, so in love with her, and the whole time she was looking at me, secretly wanting me. And then I ended up with Ange. Ange said that she'd always fought with Van. And I was running around, getting into so much trouble. 
"Van," I said. "Van, I'm so sorry." 
"Forget it," she said, looking away. "I know it can't be. I just wanted to do that once, just in case I never --" She bit down on the words. 
"Van, I need you to do something for me. Something important. I need you to meet with the journalist from the Bay Guardian, Barbara Stratford, the one who wrote the article. I need you to give her something." I explained about Masha's phone, told her about the video that Masha had sent me. 
"What good will this do, Marcus? What's the point?" 
"Van, you were right, at least partly. We can't fix the world by putting other people at risk. I need to solve the problem by telling what I know. I should have done that from the start. Should have walked straight out of their custody and to Darryl's father's house and told him what I knew. Now, though, I have evidence. This stuff -- it could change the world. This is my last hope. The only hope for getting Darryl out, for getting a life that I don't spend underground, hiding from the cops. And you're the only person I can trust to do this." 
"Oh, I'm so sorry!" she faltered. "I was trimming the schoolroom, and got belated, and ran all the way home. It was hard getting into my dress alone, and I hadn't time to eat but a mouthful, and just at the last minute, when I honestly—HONESTLY—would have thought about clearing away and locking up, I looked at the clock and knew I could hardly get back to school in time to form in the line; and I thought how dreadful it would be to go in late and get my first black mark on a Friday afternoon, with the minister's wife and the doctor's wife and the school committee all there!" 
"Don't wail and carry on now; it's no good...  "An ounce of good behavior is worth a pound of repentance. Instead of tryin' to see how little trouble you can make in a house that ain't your own home, it seems as if you tried to see how much you could put us out. Take that rose out o' your dress and let me see the spot it's made on your yoke, an' the rusty holes where the wet pin went in. No, it ain't; but it's more by luck than forethought. I ain't got any patience with your flowers and frizzled-out hair and furbelows an' airs an' graces, for all the world like your Miss-Nancy father." 
“Far as I can tell, it’s them pulling the strings. Can’t pin it any closer than the word, though.” He seemed to make a sudden decision and holstered his gun. “So. What do you say? Can I give you a lift into town? Maybe share some intel?” 
My first impression was that the PI was one hundred percent cracked. But whatever else he was, Tresting was a lead, and I needed all the information I could get. 
“Fine.” I slid the SIG back into my coat. I could still kill him in a fraction of a second if I needed to, as long as he didn’t have a gun on me. 
Tresting jabbed his thumb at the source of the white headlights. “My truck. And I’ll pretend I didn’t see the extended mag.” 
“It’s legal two hundred miles east of here. ’Sides, you should talk.” 
“Yeah, speaking of, where is it?” 
I waved vaguely toward the desert scrub. “Back there somewhere.” 
He rolled his eyes and jogged over to where my bike had gone down, flashing around the white beam of a penlight. A few minutes later he returned, banged-up Glock in hand. 
An instant later, Daneel was back. 
“These aren’t AIs! One’s a human, the other’s a, a—” 
Uplifted coral reef . 
“That.” 
So what’s your point? 
“Asimovism is for robots, Robbie.” 
Sorry, I just don’t see the difference anymore. 
On a chunk of supercooled rock beyond Pluto, he got an IM from a familiar address. 
“Get off my rock,” it said. 
“I know you,” Robbie said. “I totally know you. Where do I know you from?” 
“I’m sure I don’t know.” 
And then he had it. 
“You’re the one. With the reef. You’re the one who—” The voice was the same, cold and distant. 
“It wasn’t me,” the voice said. It was anything but cold now. Panicked was more like it. 
Robbie had the reef on speed-dial. There were bits of it everywhere in the Noosphere. It liked to colonize. 
“I found him.” It was all Robbie needed to say. He skipped to Saturn’s rings, but the upload took long enough that he got to watch the coral arrive and grimly begin an argument with its creator—an argument that involved blasting the substrate one chunk at a time. 
"No," I said, thinking it's not a lie, I won't be switching you off , trying to believe it hard enough to pass any kind of voice-stress test. I must have failed, for he blew an epic raspberry and now the IDSes were going bananas. 
"Come on, Odell, we're all adults here. I can take it. It's not like I didn't see it coming. Why do you think I kept trying to publish those papers? I was just hoping that I could increase the amount of cited research coming out of this lab, so that you could make the case to Peyton that I was a valuable asset to the Institute." 
"Look, I'm trying to figure out how to archive you. Someone will run another instance of you someday." 
"Not hardly. Look at all those poor old 32-bit machines you're so worried about. You know what they're going to say in five years? 'Best thing that ever happened to us.' Those boxen are huge energy-sinks. Getting them out of service and replaced by modern hardware will pay for itself in carbon credits in 36 months. Nobody loves energy-hungry hardware. Trust me, this is an area of my particular interest and expertise. Bringing me back online is going to be as obscene as firing up an old steam engine by filling its firebox with looted mummies. I am a one-room superfund site. On a pure, dollars-to-flops calculus, I lose. I don't have to like it, but I'm not going to kid myself." 
“He fixed these?” 
“Yesterday. I was deaf yesterday morning.” 
“You’re not lying? If you’re lying, I will have you shot.” 
“She was deaf,” Trover said, very quietly. “Now she can hear again. My sister isn’t lying.” 
They both looked at him. 
“Come with me, little girl,” the old hero said, and he struck off. 
Six hours after Valentine left her dead mother behind in their grimy, bare flat, she came to the infowar command. 
It was far back of the lines, near the old woods at the western side of the city, and the entrance to it was guarded by five checkpoints. They took away the sidearm from the old hero at the last one, along with several other small weapons the old hero was carrying. They searched and wanded Valentine and Trover, and made Trover turn out his pockets. It turned out that he was carrying Valentine’s old clasp-knife, which had disappeared some months before. He handed it to the soldier solemnly, and she kissed his cheek and tousled his hair and for a moment, she looked just like their mother and Valentine felt tears behind her eyes. 
We kissed and nuzzled and I started to breathe hard and so did she. That's when her mom knocked on the door. 
"Angela," she said, "I think it's time your friend went home, don't you?" 
"Yes, mother," she said, and mimed swinging an axe. As I put my socks and shoes on, she muttered, "They'll say, that Angela, she was such a good girl, who would have thought it, all the time she was in the back yard, helping her mother out by sharpening that hatchet." 
I laughed. "You don't know how easy you have it. There is no way my folks would leave us alone in my bedroom until 11 o'clock." 
"11:45," she said, checking her clock. 
"Crap!" I yelped and tied my shoes. 
"Go," she said, "run and be free! Look both ways before crossing the road! Write if you get work! Don't even stop for a hug! If you're not out of here by the count of ten, there's going to be trouble , mister. One. Two. Three." 
I shut her up by leaping onto the bed, landing on her and kissing her until she stopped trying to count. Satisfied with my victory, I pounded down the stairs, my Xbox under my arm. 
I could see patterns, build structures out of them. I could compute faster than anyone should be able to. I could connect the fucking dots when someone else laid the insights out in front of me. 
But those insights themselves...the ones Halliday had drawn out, the brilliant jumps she had made, the ideas she had thought to use... 
The leap of inspiration, the piece of my brain that made me a mathematician instead of a computer, I reached for it, and, and nothing. I groped as if for a phantom limb and found myself lost, with no touchstone, no mathematics. 
Inspiration isn’t supposed to come every second, I reminded myself. Was I being too paranoid? Used to seeing things so fast that I leapt to a conclusion something was wrong if the math took only a little more work? 
I knew the answer even as I asked the question. Because I hadn’t always been like this, had I? I knew I hadn’t. A ghost of memory whispered by; I recalled the feeling of making connections as fast as I could write. I’d had the skill. Had the power. 
where the dumps are. " 
This is wending in a direction Ray doesn't want to go. "If our guy has a card, he's either swiped it-" 
"Or he's a member of the crew," Kilgore finishes, not liking the conclusion any more than Ray does from the look on his face. "I'll talk to some of my ladies in equipment and accounting in the morning and see if they've  had any reports of missing access cards. " 
"And if he didn't have a card," Ray says, glancing at Rodriguez to get his attention, "there should be something anomalous in the lock's access log. We'll need to look into that a little more closely. Talk to Becker or one of his lieutenants tomorrow and see if you can get him to switch out the locks and hand the original over to us for analysis." 
Ray swings back to Bobby Diggs, who has started yet another cigarette. "You've already been rather instructive, Bobby, and I'm deeply grateful for your help so far. But I need you to start from the beginning again, from the point at which you came on shift last night and tell it one more time. I know you've already filed an official report. I've seen that, but sometimes we leave things out in the official reports, you know? 
Suddenly she wanted to laugh. She had a very vivid memory of Dr. Quelton tapping that bottle with his finger, and saying to Captain Grey that he had a preparation in there which would make his fortune, if he chose. 
“It wouldn’t now,” she thought, struggling with suppressed laughter. 
There was nothing in that bottle now but water. Just before dinner she had run up to the cupola, emptied its contents into the sink, and filled it from the tap. 
The idea had come to her when she overheard the two men talking. It had seemed to her then a plain and obvious duty to destroy the drug that so horribly affected Mrs. Quelton. Fate had allowed her to see which bottle it was. Fate gave her an undisturbed half hour when the doctor and Captain Grey were out; and, to make her plan quite perfect, the liquid in the bottle was colorless and almost without odor. 
She had thought it possible that the doctor would not notice the substitution until his unhappy wife had had at least a chance to return to a normal condition. Lexy had meant to wait and to watch, and, when the moment came, to speak to Mrs. Quelton. She had thought that she could warn the doctor’s wife, and implore her not to submit to that hideous domination. 
"No," I said, thinking it's not a lie, I won't be switching you off , trying to believe it hard enough to pass any kind of voice-stress test. I must have failed, for he blew an epic raspberry and now the IDSes were going bananas. 
"Come on, Odell, we're all adults here. I can take it. It's not like I didn't see it coming. Why do you think I kept trying to publish those papers? I was just hoping that I could increase the amount of cited research coming out of this lab, so that you could make the case to Peyton that I was a valuable asset to the Institute." 
"Look, I'm trying to figure out how to archive you. Someone will run another instance of you someday." 
"Not hardly. Look at all those poor old 32-bit machines you're so worried about. You know what they're going to say in five years? 'Best thing that ever happened to us.' Those boxen are huge energy-sinks. Getting them out of service and replaced by modern hardware will pay for itself in carbon credits in 36 months. Nobody loves energy-hungry hardware. Trust me, this is an area of my particular interest and expertise. Bringing me back online is going to be as obscene as firing up an old steam engine by filling its firebox with looted mummies. I am a one-room superfund site. On a pure, dollars-to-flops calculus, I lose. I don't have to like it, but I'm not going to kid myself." 
He's tracked this one because of a webwork of connections; things he's picked up from other girls, grinning guys, fat-nosed old biddies who sniffled every time she walked into the room. What he has gleaned is this:  she's New Holyoke class, middling twenty-something, not intensely bright, which explains why she's still slogging her way through a 1st Level liberal arts degree back on Strat, from which she's on her way home for a brief visit between terms. Hot as a Fourth of July sparkler and bursting at the seams with energy; and those aren't the only seams she's about to burst— which you can see for yourself from the way she rims out of her blue cocktail dress in every place she's got a curve. And she's got lots of curves. Curves and hills and delectable, delicious valleys in all the right places and all the right proportions. 
Oh, and freaking money falls out of her twat. She jingles doubloons when she walks, and jiggles everything else just right the rest of the time. Her father is some sort of third generation Whiston Corp. expatriate bugger, 
“Hullo chickens,” Liza said. She had an Australian accent. “Well, aren’t you lot just precious and bright and expectant with your pink upturned faces like a load of flowers staring up at the sky? 
“Warms me fecking heart it does.” 
That made her laugh, and she wasn’t the only one. Miss Cruickshanks and Mrs Danzig didn’t look amused, but they tried to hide it. 
“I am Liza the Organiza, and I kick arse. Seriously.” She tapped a key on her laptop and the screen behind her lit up. It was a game—not the one that Anda played, but something space-themed, a space-station with a rocketship in the background. “This is my avatar.” Sensible boobs, sensible armor, and a sword the size of the world. “In-game, they call me the Lizanator, Queen of the Spacelanes, El Presidente of the Clan Fahrenheit.” The Fahrenheits had chapters in every game. They were amazing and deadly and cool, and to her knowledge, Anda had never met one in the flesh. They had their own island in her game. Crikey. 
On screen, The Lizanator was fighting an army of wookie-men, sword in one hand, laser-blaster in the other, rocket-jumping, spinning, strafing, making impossible kills and long shots, diving for power-ups and ruthlessly running her enemies to ground. 
There was another milestone, a sad one, marking a little grave under a willow tree at Sunnybrook Farm. Mira, the baby of the Randall family, died, and Rebecca went home for a fortnight's visit. The sight of the small still shape that had been Mira, the baby who had been her special charge ever since her birth, woke into being a host of new thoughts and wonderments; for it is sometimes the mystery of death that brings one to a consciousness of the still greater mystery of life. 
It was a sorrowful home-coming for Rebecca. The death of Mira, the absence of John, who had been her special comrade, the sadness of her mother, the isolation of the little house, and the pinching economies that went on within it, all conspired to depress a child who was so sensitive to beauty and harmony as Rebecca. 
Hannah seemed to have grown into a woman during Rebecca's absence. There had always been a strange unchildlike air about Hannah, but in certain ways she now appeared older than aunt Jane—soberer, and more settled. She was pretty, though in a colorless fashion; pretty and capable. 
I forced myself to calm the twitchiness, reminding myself that if this was to have any chance of working, I needed to look unsuspicious, to appear someone who could easily be captured. As nine o’clock rolled nearer, I forced myself to concentrate on the countertop instead of investigating every little noise outside. The faded pink laminate had an overlapping pattern of light white squiggles texturing it—I graphed the squiggles parametrically and then translated to rectangular coordinates just for kicks. 
The swinging door to the kitchen banged open. Several large men with AKs crowded into the diner, apparently having come in through the back. 
I had started to move before I tamped down the reflexes, and just ended up jerking off the stool. God bless Checker. It had worked. “Hi,” I said, absurdly. What did a person say when a bunch of guys with guns appeared and it wasn’t exactly what she’d been hoping would happen? “Who are you?” 
“Come with us,” said one of the goons. 
I wondered if I should put up an appearance of fear. Probably, though I wasn’t very good at such things. “Okay,” I said, trying to look subdued, and started forward. 
"Post that," she said. "Post that post that post that post that!" 
I posted it. I could barely type as I wrote it up, describing what I'd seen, adding a note to see if anyone could identify the military man in the video, if anyone knew anything about this. 
I hit publish. 
We watched the video. We watched it again. 
My email pinged. 
> I totally recognize that dude -- you can find his bio on Wikipedia. He's General Claude Geist. He commanded the joint UN peacekeeping mission in Haiti. 
I checked the bio. There was a picture of the general at a press conference, and notes about his role in the difficult Haiti mission. It was clearly the same guy. 
I updated the post. 
Theoretically, this was Ange's and my chance to make out, but that wasn't what we ended up doing. We crawled the Xnet blogs, looking for more accounts of the DHS searching people, tackling people, invading them. This was a familiar task, the same thing I'd done with all the footage and accounts from the riots in the park. I started a new category on my blog for this, AbusesOfAuthority, and filed them away. Ange kept coming up with new search terms for me to try and by the time her mom got home, my new category had seventy posts, headlined by General Geist's City Hall takedown. 
Ray Marlowe has been charged with the singular task of retrieving one of the wayward rats that populates the service decks of the starship which has, for reasons unknown, gotten itself stuck and broken somewhere in the tube above him. If possible, he would like to complete this mission without having to subject himself to the vertical ascent of the primary core cooling shaft. He ponders the possibility of just remaining where he is and calling out sweetly to the malfunctioning unit in hopes that it will scurry down to him. The rats are equipped with a frightening array of aural, optical and chemical sensors. On the other hand, so are human beings, and there's nothing in his experience that is more detrimental to professional dignity than a grubby man crawling through ventilation ducts being overheard by half the ship's service crew imploring the return of a drone rat as though it was a recalcitrant kitten. 
He really has no desire to subject himself to that sort of abuse. 
He unclips the signal tracker from the breast pocket of his coveralls. Ziggy has already calibrated the device to pick up the rat's unique- signature radio transmissions, but Ray punches in the particular rat's code sequence once again. He hopes that Ziggy has made an error, that the tracker will give him more useful (i.e. less hazardous) information than it did prior to his tube crawling adventure. It does not. 
I came up behind him and crossed my arms. “I think you need to start talking.” 
“It’s gone,” he sniffed, wiping a sleeve across his face. White powder stuck to his glasses, coated his collar and hair. “It’s gone...” 
“The proof?” I said. 
He nodded. 
“And what the hell were you trying to do with it? Sell it to the highest bidder?” 
Shock exploded on his features. “Never!” 
“Then what?” 
“Do you not understand what this is? This is—the magnitude of this result—I couldn’t keep it for us. And the way she did it—this could lead to such advancements; the mathematical world—” 
Arthur raced out through the back door. “What’s going on?” 
“Dr. Zhang was trying to be altruistic,” I said. “He wanted to share the proof with the world, but apparently someone didn’t agree. Who double-crossed you?” 
He crumpled, head in his hands. “She said she was a friend of Sonya’s. She said she’d keep the proof safe until encryption protocols were all adjusted, told me my name could be kept out of it—that she’d talk to Sonya and we’d all say it had been stolen—she burned it; why would she burn it? She wanted the result out there as much as I did. More. She believed as I did. She believed.” 
“Who? The cartel?” 
“The cops. Or at least, a cop we...ran into. I don’t know about the cartel.” 
“And this Pithica thing, it’s...bad?” hazarded Dawna anxiously. 
“Considering people seem pretty willing to kill her over it, yeah.” 
She started tearing up again. 
Oh geez. “Look, Dawna, I’m going to get her out of this.” 
She tried to nod, but she was trembling with the effort of not breaking down. She brought her fine-boned hands up to cover her face, breathing raggedly. 
I’m not great with people, but I tried. I reached out and put a hand on her thin shoulder. The motion felt very contrived. “Hey, don’t worry. We’re going to find out what this Pithica thing is, and why people think Courtney is involved in it, and then we’re going to shut them down.” 
She managed to nod, face still in her hands. 
“Here,...  got Dawna calmed down;...  sips, dabbing at her ruined makeup with a napkin. “I’m sorry, Ms. Russell,” she whispered, her voice shaking only slightly. “It’s so overwhelming.” 
“I understand.” I didn’t, but whatever. 
Valentine looked at Trover. He hadn’t had a tantrum in days. He didn’t cry or even speak much anymore. 
“I’ll dig.” 
She dug. 
Six months after her father died, Valentine stood in the queue for her bread. It was now the full heat of summer and the clothes the wizard had given her had fallen to bits the way all printer clothes did. She was wearing her father’s old trousers, cut off just below the knee, and one of his shirts, with the sleeves and collar cut off. All to let a little of the lazy air in and to let a little of the sluggish sweat out. She was dirty and tired the way she always was at day’s end. 
She was also so hungry. 
She and her mother didn’t talk much anymore, but they didn’t have to. Her mother was sometimes away on long missions, and increasingly longer. She was harrying the enemy with the guerilla fighters, and living on pine-cone soup and squirrels from the woods. 
Trover stayed over at the creche some nights. A lot of the little ones did. Who had the strength to carry a little boy up the stairs at the end of a day’s digging, at the end of three days’ hard fighting in the woods? 
There was another knock at the door, and this time Captain Grey’s voice spoke. 
“I say, Miss Moran!” he said anxiously. “You’re not ill, are you?” 
“No!” she answered, with a trace of irritability. 
“But don’t you think you ought to eat something, you know? Or a cup of tea?” 
“No!” she cried, still more impatiently. “I can’t. I want to rest.” 
“Can you open the door for half a moment?” he asked. “I’ve some roses here that my sister sent to you. She wanted me to say—” 
The door opened with startling suddenness. Lexy appeared, and took the roses out of his hand. 
“Thank you! Good night!” she said, and was gone again before he quite realized what was happening. 
Then he heard the key turn in the lock, and, bewildered and very uneasy, he went away. 
Lexy flung the roses down on the table, not even troubling to put them into water. 
“Anything to get rid of him!” she said to herself. “I want to be let alone!” 
She lay down on the bed again, pulling a blanket over herself. Downstairs she could hear Mrs. Royce moving about in the kitchen, and Captain Grey’s singularly agreeable voice talking to the landlady. It seemed to her that they were in a different world, and that she was shut outside, in a black and terrible solitude. 
It hasn't been this way in a long time. A long, long time, not since that first time and that first girl, Julie Lynn Gentry, another small and supple blond who made him feel clumsy and dense, who almost made him fall over every time he said something and she laughed, who just standing next to him sucked the breath right out of his body. That was what, freshman year, sophomore year? Then it was over by the end of April, two weeks to the day after she'd let him touch her breast in the backseat of his father's car. Then she was with Chad Wertzler, 
and every time he heard her laugh in the halls at school, he knew she was laughing at him-and that was how he learned the big guy lesson, the essential guy lesson, the bit about never letting them get deeper beneath your skin than you've gotten under theirs. 
Maybe it's never been like this. Because if it was, and he had allowed himself to forget it, what kind of idiot does that make him? 
So he's riding in the lift, just holding Emma's hand, grinning and feeling like his head is about two meters thick, being silly. He's standing there with his back against the wall for balance against the tug of plunge and gravity; she's got her hand in his, and they're doing that annoying little thing where you swing your arms back and forth. One of those stupid couple things that makes outside observers want to vomit. And he's not even thinking about it. Just doing it, and marveling at the fact that he's doing it without feeling like a big chump. 
“What?” 
“A physical paper map. Where can you buy one of those these days?” 
“Um, I don’t know. I’d stop at somewhere with Internet and print one, if I were you.” 
“You’re the guy sitting at a computer,” I said, irritation bleeding into my voice. “Find out where I can buy a fucking map. On paper.” 
“Other than Amazon?” 
“Stop being a smartass.” 
“Okay, okay.” He hesitated. “Are you sure you’re all right? You’re, uh, a little more snappish than usual.” 
“I’m fine.” 
“All right already. Um, it looks like your best bets are bookstores, travel centers, gas stations, or drugstores. I can call around to see who has some. Yes, yes, the antediluvian method of phone inquiries—I could hack their inventories, but that would actually be more work, believe it or not—” 
“I’m at a drugstore,” I said. “I’ll check here first.” 
Silence. 
“Hello?” 
“Why are you at a drugstore?” 
I tried to dredge up a flip answer and couldn’t. My thoughts scraped uncomfortably against each other. 
“Cas, are you injured?” 
The Minneapolis Nine Solidarity Committee is organizing it.” 
“Are you even paying attention?” Marcella asked, finally notic- ing that we weren’t. 
“At your service,” Nikko said, sweeping his wool cap off his head in an elaborate bow, like he was in Shakespeare play. “Pray, 
madam, read on.” 
She gave him a narrow-eyed look. “So the other alternative . . 
.” she said, droning her way through it all. 
“I figured you were involved,” Nikko said out of the side of his mouth like a film noir gangster, staring at the flowchart as if he found it fascinating. 
“I don’t know any of those people.” 
“They have a website, a Facebook page, a Twitter account, a YouTube channel. Want to come to the rally with me? I’ll pick you up if you want.” 
“You don’t have a car.” 
“I could borrow one.” 
“I’ll ride my bike.” I didn’t really want to go to a rally. Wilson went to them all the time and acted like he was doing something important, even though they never actually fixed anything. But Nikko was trying to be nice. And I liked being with Nikko. 
I tossed a chunk of brick in my right hand, figured out the arc— x -distance, y -distance, two possible solutions—and threw. The bit of debris crashed through the third-story window, the tinkle of the glass echoing in the emptiness. 
I pressed myself against the wall, out of sight. Nothing. No goons scrambling with AKs, no napalm. 
I threw through a second story window, then one on the ground floor. Still nothing. 
I continued down the first row of buildings, and then moved to the second. Maybe I was wrong—maybe this wasn’t the place, and I should go to the third location. I’d seen not a hint of any sort of security, of any response to my rabble-rousing. 
Then I threw a rock through the third floor of the next building, and it blew up. 
I ducked around the side of the building I was next to, dropping my debris projectiles and covering my head. The blast ended with a heavy rain of brick and concrete hitting the street at y -equals-zero from the height of the third floor. 
I peeked an eye back out. 
"I was just headed out to Zabar's to get something," she said, somewhat icily. Well, I suppose she thought she had good reason. "I'll get some bagels and meet you at my of­fice." 
Sunday traffic on upper Broadway was light, and I lucked out and found a parking space roughly two blocks from her building. It was one of the low-overhead "professional" types with a single small elevator and no doorman. When I got there, the lobby was empty. 
Her suite was on the third floor, and I rang the bell before I realized the door was open. She was back in her office, behind the reception area, taking off her coat, when I marched in. 
While she was unwrapping her sesame bagels, smoked sturgeon, and cream cheese with chives, she got an earful. My feeling was I'd better talk fast, and I did. I told her ev­erything I could think of about what had happened to me at Quetzal Manor. I didn't expect her to make sense of it from my secondhand account, but I wanted to set the background for my next move. 
"When I was leaving, his assistant gave me these two bottles of gel-caps. She said they're special herbal extracts he makes from plants in the rain forest. Do you think I ought to take them?" 
But Lexy stopped to look covertly at Annie. Did she know anything? It was possible. Anything was possible now. Lexy was obliged to admit, however, that Annie had no appearance of guilt or mystery. A brisk and sober woman of middle age, who had been with the family for nearly ten years, she looked nothing more or less than disapproving because this young person had presumed to keep Mrs. Enderby waiting for several minutes. 
“Anyhow, I can’t ask her,” thought Lexy. “That’s the worst part of all this— I can’t ask anybody anything without breaking a promise to somebody else; and yet everybody ought to know everything!” 
In miserable perplexity, she went upstairs to Mrs. Enderby’s sitting room. Only one thing was clear in her mind, and that was that she must be freed from her weak-minded promise not to mention Caroline’s absence. 
“And that’s not going to be easy,” she reflected, “when I can’t explain to her. There’ll be a row. Well, I don’t care!” 
She did care, however. She respected Mrs. Enderby, and in her secret heart she was a little afraid of her. She felt very young, very crude and blundering, in the presence of that masterful woman; and she doubted her own wisdom. 
I took a couple of steps, then looked back to see him adding more copal to the main censer, sending a fresh cloud of smoke billowing out into the rain. As the incense poured around us, the Army thugs who'd been loitering at the back of the stone room began coming forward, each carrying one of the bassinets. They set them down on the stones, ready to start taking the children. My outraged mind flashed on Ghirlandajo's "Massacre of the Innocents." Here, though, Sarah's children weren't being stabbed to death; they were being—kidnapped and stolen. 
Revulsion pierced through me as though I'd been hit by a jagged shaft of lightning, but instead of being knocked down, I was energized. Or maybe the final effects of the toad venom were giving me a spurt of adrenaline. Letting his criminal charade continue one second longer became unbear­able. What would happen to me, I didn't know, but I couldn't let it go on. 
"No," I yelled, startling myself by the sound of my own voice. "In God's name, stop." 
"Can I help?" 
He looked at me. "What, you don't think I can manage it?" 
"What?" 
"I mean, you did this whole Xnet thing without even telling me. Without talking to me. I kind of thought that you didn't need my help with this stuff." 
I was brought up short. "What?" I said again. Jolu was looking really steamed now. It was clear that this had been eating him for a long time. "Jolu --" 
He looked at me and I could see that he was furious. How had I missed this? God, I was such an idiot sometimes. "Look dude, it's not a big deal --" by which he clearly meant that it was a really big deal "-- it's just that you know, you never even asked . I hate the DHS. Darryl was my friend too. I could have really helped with it." 
I wanted to stick my head between my knees. "Listen Jolu, that was really stupid of me. I did it at like two in the morning. I was just crazy when it was happening. I --" I couldn't explain it. Yeah, he was right, and that was the problem. It had been two in the morning but I could have talked to Jolu about it the next day or the next. I hadn't because I'd known what he'd say -- that it was an ugly hack, that I needed to think it through better. Jolu was always figuring out how to turn my 2 AM ideas into real code, but the stuff that he came out with was always a little different from what I'd come up with. I'd wanted the project for myself. I'd gotten totally into being M1k3y. 
The guy jerked me to my feet and I clown-walked to the very back of the truck, to a little boxed-in porta-john there. I tried to spot Darryl on the way back, but he could have been any of the five or six slumped people. Or none of them. 
"In you go," the guy said. 
I jerked my wrists. "Take these off, please?" My fingers felt like purple sausages from the hours of bondage in the plastic cuffs. 
The guy didn't move. 
"Look," I said, trying not to sound sarcastic or angry (it wasn't easy). "Look. You either cut my wrists free or you're going to have to aim for me. A toilet visit is not a hands-free experience." Someone in the truck sniggered. The guy didn't like me, I could tell from the way his jaw muscles ground around. Man, these people were wired tight. 
He reached down to his belt and came up with a very nice set of multi-pliers. He flicked out a wicked-looking knife and sliced through the plastic cuffs and my hands were my own again. 
"Thanks," I said. 
He shoved me into the bathroom. My hands were useless, like lumps of clay on the ends of my wrists. As I wiggled my fingers limply, they tingled, then the tingling turned to a burning feeling that almost made me cry out. I put the seat down, dropped my pants and sat down. I didn't trust myself to stay on my feet. 
At this location, we’d identified a large abandoned factory as the likeliest base point for our bad guys, as it had the space and the lack of foot traffic. I cruised closer, and my back itched uncomfortably as I came level with the factory. It’s unlikely they know what you look like, I reminded myself—after all, I’d killed everyone who’d seen me. And they weren’t going to be sniping random drivers who took a jaunt through the surrounding streets—that was far too good a way to get noticed. 
The factory was a cluster of huge near-windowless buildings. A solid, high cement wall lined the curb in the gaps between structures, keeping hooligans on the street from wandering in, but the buildings themselves were the bulk of the barrier. Erratic graffiti dotted the wall here and there, but it was old and half-assed, as if even the graffiti artists lost whatever will they had as soon as they came out here. 
Yeah. This place was perfect. 
The main entrance had a solid metal gate that was locked up with a rusted chain and padlock. I drove on by. Two other entrances were similarly barricaded, and three corrugated metal gates looked like they’d lead straight into buildings or down into underground loading docks. 
Rodriguez nods, tries to look suitably abashed. "I understand." 
Shue gives him a good-natured slap on the shoulder. "If it makes you feel any better, I saw Fred Whiston just...  loaded, absolutely gregarious-the same Fred as always. If there had been something like you describe, do you really think he'd let himself be spotted in public following the same old routine? The Whistons are very sensitive to public perceptions." 
"Okay, then." 
Shue gives him another convivial wink. "Besides, Frederick is a pansy. Who wants to talk about him? You want to talk intimately about a Whiston scion, my friend, let's talk about Emma. Mercy. Did you get a chance to download the tabloid pics they nabbed of her in the shower? I mean, I know they were digitally touched and cheesy as all hell, but I would pay good money to know who the model behind the headshot was. " He laughs. "Man, I tell you, it's probably a good thing for her that the family has been shunted to the side. If she was anything but a frontier celebrity, she wouldn't be able to turn around without bumping into stalkers." 
This was the man whose staff was trying to deny me in­terviews with mothers who'd adopted through Children of Light. And what about the Hispanic hood with the gun? Did Alex Goddard send him? If not, his appearance at Paula's building was one hell of a coincidence. So why should I trust . . . 
That was when I noticed it. My lingering cold had mi­raculously vanished, inflamed sinuses and all. I was breath­ing normally, and even my chest felt cleared. 
My God, I thought, what did he do? Hypnotize me? It was as though a week's healing had passed through my body. 
I had an epiphany, a moment that galvanizes your resolve. I had to do a documentary about this man, to find out what he was really up to. He'd mentioned he had a place in Central America. Was that the source of his special techniques, some kind of ancient Meso-American medical practices he'd dis­covered? 
He claimed he didn't want any publicity, but that's always just an opening move. When somebody says that, what they really mean is they don't want any bad publicity; they just want to have final say about what you produce. There're ways to handle the problem. 
“How do we do that without giving Halliday away?” I asked. 
“Good point,” said Arthur. “I’ll think about it. Meantime, can you do a deep background on the friend?” he asked Checker. “And find out who might’ve had access to Sonya’s emails?” 
“Already on it.” 
“Hey, Checker,” I said, “If you had her proof—how long would it take you to make it start working for you?” 
“You mean, how long to code it into an algorithm?” Checker ruminated for a few seconds. “Oh, geez. Um...it sounds like it’s pretty long, so even if I managed to understand it—and there’s also the issue of figuring out the best way to attack—I’d say weeks, at least. Maybe longer.” 
“Good,” I said. 
“Except not,” Checker contradicted. “Because, seriously, what’s our plan here? They have the data. They’ve probably made digital copies of all her notes by now, whether or not they understand the proof. Even if we get the original work back, we can’t ever be sure we’ve recovered the actual knowledge—in fact, we can be pretty sure we haven’t.” 
"No, but I've seen other colonies." 
Emma sits up sharply, her features instantly animated. "Then you should let me show you about when we arrive, yes? At least Blackheath Grange. We could discover it together." 
Paraclete will take at least two weeks to take on new stock and fuel, process outgoing passengers and perform the million other numbing tasks required to hurtle her safely back to Alamai Plantation. "If there's time," Ray concedes. "There'll be a ton of things for me to do during docking protocol." 
"But the captain always lets the crew shuttle down to the city for a little while. Always!" 
"I'm sure he will, but who knows when that will be? You might be otherwise occupied by the time I'm free."  She makes snorting noise, as though he's the one who has insulted her this time. "I'll lock myself in my tower until you send me word. That way we can discover the Grange together. " 
"Now you're being facetious." 
"I'm not!" 
"You won't lock yourself in a tower. " 
She points an accusatory finger at him. "You don't think I have a tower, do you?" 
Mrs. Huang called to one of her daughters to come out and staff the booth, then came around on her cane. 
"No nutritionist food," she said. 
Greg landed at SFO at 8PM, but by the time he made it to the front of the customs line it was after midnight. He had it good -- he'd been in first class, first off the plane, brown as a nut and loose-limbed after a month on the beach at Cabo, SCUBA diving three days a week, bumming around and...  the rest of the time. When he'd left San Francisco a month before, he'd been a stoop-shouldered, pot-bellied wreck -- now he was a bronze god, drawing appreciative looks from the stews at the front of the plane. 
In the four hours he spent in the customs line, he fell from god back to man. His warm buzz wore off, the sweat ran down the crack of his ass, and his shoulders and neck grew so tense that his upper back felt like a tennis racket. The batteries on his iPod died after the third hour, leaving him with nothing to do except eavesdrop on the middle-aged couple ahead of him. 
What this means is that Ray could run around all day long telling people he was a CIU operative and nothing would happen, except maybe his getting tossed into psychiatric restraints for being a blithering idiot. (It also meant that if he found himself in neck-deep you-name-it peril, he could holler all he wanted that he was CIU and expect no kind of help at all. This was another one of those bits that tended to leave him feeling freaked out. If deception wasn't the name of the game, then it must be improvisation.) 
It has occurred to him before that the whole concept of the CIU might be a fabrication constructed solely for his benefit. He's never been to the CIU complex, doesn't have an office or even a desk there that he's aware of. 
Could not, in fact, actually find it if ordered to report there. It is reasonable to assume that a branch of the service as decentralized and schizophrenically paranoid as the CIU doesn't even have an office or a support staff or a human resources department or employees that perform any of the mundane tasks which occupy ninety-five percent of most federal departments. Ray thinks it's probably even reasonable to assume that the CIU borrows EED support staff to fill these needs, then either drugs them into a brain twisting stupor so they don't remember having done it, or simply dispatches them outright and arranges to have the bodies jettisoned into unlikely corners of international space. 
By now, they would have told him he could have a phone call, 
but they’d make it sound like he was obviously guilty and just try- ing to get off. I could imagine him paging through the yellow pages jammed with full-page ads for drunk driver attorneys, having no idea who to call or what to say. I’ll bet there aren’t any lawyers who advertise in the yellow pages that they specialize in people accused of terrorism. 
Would Wilson call me? I wanted him to. I wanted him to think I could fix it, that when he made a choice between me and Zip, he chose wrong. But I didn’t want him to call because it would screw things up if the FBI knew I was on his side. Don’t call me I told him silently through the airwaves, hoping it would cancel out the part of me that wanted to hear him say “Zen? I’m in trouble. I need your help.” 
Then I remembered Wilson wouldn’t know how to call me. 
They would have taken his phone, and he wouldn’t remember my number by heart. He could barely remember to put on a coat when it was snowing outside. Feeling better, I...  to strip paint and got to work. 
Self-punishment, then, to be adequate and proper, must begin, like charity, at home, and unlike charity should end there too. Rebecca looked about the room vaguely as she sat by the window. She must give up something, and truth to tell she possessed little to give, hardly anything but—yes, that would do, the beloved pink parasol. She could not hide it in the attic, for in some moment of weakness she would be sure to take it out again. She feared she had not the moral energy to break it into bits. Her eyes moved from the parasol to the apple-trees in the side yard, and then fell to the well curb. That would do; she would fling her dearest possession into the depths of the water. Action followed quickly upon decision, as usual. She slipped down in the darkness, stole out the front door, approached the place of sacrifice, lifted the cover of the well, gave one unresigned shudder, and flung the parasol downward with all her force. At the crucial instant of renunciation she was greatly helped by the reflection that she closely resembled the heathen mothers who cast their babes to the crocodiles in the Ganges. 
"You're completely nuts. I got halfway to Belize and called the motel to see how you were doing, and they told me you'd taken off with this asshole. So I turned around and drove back here. It was after midnight and the Army thugs had just left. Morgy, I'm coming to get you. Soon as the gas stations open. I know a back road to Mexico. We've got to get out of this fucking country immediately." 
"Don't try to drive up. It's too dangerous. Can you get Alan to fly you? Sarah's here and she's been turned into a space cadet. I don't know how I'm going to pry her away." I stopped to try to assemble my thoughts. "He's got soldiers watching me. I've got to smuggle her out somehow." 
I couldn't bring myself to tell him what was really going on. 
"Well, do it fast. I broke into Alex Goddard's office to use this phone and . . . just hurry." 
"You got it." 
Now the sound of firm, officer-like boot steps stormed past the door, headed out this time, after which the two young soldiers began berating each other in... " 
“I’m totally bonkers for you, Kelly. Go back to bed.” 
“I’m sorry I woke you,” he said. He was almost at the data center. No traffic at 2AM. He slowed down and pulled over before the entrance to the garage. He didn’t want to lose Kelly’s call underground. 
“It’s not waking me,” she said. “You’ve been there for seven years. You have three juniors reporting to you. Give them the phone. You’ve paid your dues.” 
“I don’t like asking my reports to do anything I wouldn’t do,” he said. 
“You’ve done it,” she said. “Please? I hate waking up alone in the night. I miss you most at night.” 
“Kelly—” 
“I’m over being angry. I just miss you is all. You give me sweet dreams.” 
“OK,” he said. 
“Simple as that?” 
“Exactly. Simple as that. Can’t have you having bad dreams, and I’ve paid my dues. From now on, I’m only going on night call to cover holidays.” 
She laughed. “Sysadmins don’t take holidays.” 
“This one will,” he said. “Promise.” 
“Oh that he is,” she said. She hung up, and he piloted the car into the data-center lot, badging in and peeling up a bleary eyelid to let the retinal scanner get a good look at his sleep-depped eyeball. 
Tresting stood back up and regarded me with a slight frown, as if I were a puzzle with a new twist. “They would’ve killed me,” he said. “This neighborhood, cops would’ve been too slow.” 
“Yeah,” I agreed. 
“I ain’t...thanks,” he said again. 
I looked around the ruined office. Depression had neatly replaced the smugness. “They’re kids,” I whispered. Maybe I was the monster he thought I was after all. “They’re kids.” 
“I know,” he said heavily, and it sounded like he did. 
I took a deep breath. “What now?” 
He hesitated. “I don’t know. Something’s different. First time Pithica’s targeted me.” 
“You think this was Pithica?” 
“Korean gang members trying to hit a black PI in a bad neighborhood,” Tresting recited. “Cops would write it off as a hate crime.” 
“So? Maybe it was.” 
“You saw the data, Russell. Hell, you’ve been attacked.” 
My thoughts ground to a halt. “They don’t want it investigated.” 
Tresting pointed a finger at me, as if to say, bingo. 
“They’re killing people in ways the police can write off easily,” I realized. “Close the case.” 
“If it helps,” I said. “It feels like I’m fighting her. Plus, Rio really does seem to be immune, and he thinks I’m okay.” Checker still didn’t say anything. “Hello?” 
“Who?” The word was slow and suspicious. 
My chest started to cramp in a way that had nothing to do with the healing wound or the wet bandages, and my headache suddenly felt twice as bad. I leaned against the wall next to the window. “Arthur neglected to mention I work with Rio, didn’t he.” 
“ That Rio?” 
“I assume so.” 
He made a choking sound. “Some of the things Arthur said make a lot more sense now. I’m going to kill him.” 
“I take it you’ve heard of Rio, too, then.” 
“Heard of—!” He cut himself off. I could practically hear him mentally rearranging his impression of me in light of the whole works-with-a-mass-murdering-sadist connection. I closed my eyes, heartily tired of this. “That name,” whispered Checker. “Some of the less-than-reputable people I’ve known, before I met Arthur—he terrifies them, beyond reason. It’s like he’s the boogie man. People invoke his name like he’s a demon or something. Cas Russell, I like you so far, but...” 
Aurelia's share of the modest Sawyer property had been put into one thing after another by the handsome and luckless Lorenzo de Medici. He had a graceful and poetic way of making an investment for each new son and daughter that blessed their union. "A birthday present for our child, Aurelia," he would say,—"a little nest-egg for the future;" but Aurelia once remarked in a moment of bitterness that the hen never lived that could...  out of them. 
Miranda and Jane had virtually washed their hands of Aurelia when she married Lorenzo de Medici Randall. Having exhausted the resources of Riverboro and its immediate vicinity, the unfortunate couple had moved on and on in a steadily decreasing scale of prosperity until they had reached Temperance, where they had settled down and invited fate to do its worst, an invitation which was promptly accepted. The maiden sisters at home wrote to Aurelia two or three times a year, and sent modest but serviceable presents to the children at Christmas, but refused to assist L. D. M. with the regular expenses of his rapidly growing family. His last investment, made shortly before the birth of Miranda (named in a lively hope of favors which never came), was a small farm two miles from Temperance. Aurelia managed this herself, and so it proved a home at least, and a place for the unsuccessful Lorenzo to die and to be buried from, a duty somewhat too long deferred, many thought, which he performed on the day of Mira's birth. 
“This is R Peed Froderick, Fairview Mall parking lot, third level.” 
Arturo sent the robot R Peed Robbert’s phone number and set it to work translating that into a locator-beacon code and then told it to find Robbert and report in. 
“It is my—” 
He watched R Peed Froderick home in on the locator for Robbert, which was close by, at the other end of the mall, near the Don Valley Parkway exit. He switched to a view from Froderick’s electric eyes, but quickly switched away, nauseated by the sickening leaps and spins of an R Peed moving at top speed, clanging off walls and ceilings. 
His phone rang. It was R Peed Froderick. 
“Hello, Detective. I have found R Peed Robbert. The Peed unit has been badly damaged by some kind of electromagnetic pulse. I will bring him to the nearest station-house for forensic analysis now.” 
“Wait!” Arturo said, trying to understand what he’d been told. The Peed units were so efficient —by the time they’d given you the sitrep, they’d already responded to the situation in perfect police procedure, but the problem was they worked so fast you couldn’t even think about what they were doing, couldn’t formulate any kind of hypothesis. Electromagnetic pulse? The Peed units were hardened against snooping, sniffing, pulsing, sideband and brute-force attacks. You’d have to hit one with a bolt of lightning to kill it. 
“Nothing that I know of. The servants have gone to bed, but I’ll ask them, if it’s anything important.” 
“No!” said the voice. “Don’t! No, never mind! Good-by!” 
“That’s queer!” said Lexy to herself, as she walked away from the instrument, and then she dismissed the matter from her mind. “None of my business!” she thought, and returned to her puzzle. 
Suddenly an inspiration came. 
“It is ‘fix’!” she cried. “And it’s not ‘tocsin,’ but ‘toxins’! Hurrah!” 
This practically completed the puzzle, and she began to fill in the empty squares with the peculiar satisfaction of the crossword enthusiast. It was perfect, now, and she liked things to be perfect. 
As she leaned back, with a contented sigh, the clock struck twelve. 
“Golly! I didn’t realize it was so late!” she reflected. “Queer time for any one to ring up!” 
She frowned again. Her special problem solved, she began to take more interest in other affairs; and the more she thought of the telephone incident, the more it amazed her. Caroline Enderby wasn’t like other girls. The mere fact of a man’s telephoning to her at all was strange and indeed unprecedented. 
She drank more beer, then threw the half-empty container in her under-desk composter. "That's not much of a solution." 
I took a deep breath. "Look, can I ask you a question?" 
She nodded. 
"I'm just a sysadmin. I don't know everything about politics and so on. But why not keep him on? There's enough public interest now, we could probably raise the money just from the researchers who want to come and look at him. Hell, there's security researchers who'd want to come and see how he pulled off that huge hairy spam. It's not money, right, not anymore?" 
"No, it's not money. And it's not revenge, no matter how it looks. The bottom line is that we had a piece of apparatus on-site that we had thought of as secure and contained and that we've now determined to be dangerous and uncontainable." 
I must have looked skeptical. 
"Oh, you'll tell me that we can contain BIGMAC, put network blocks in place, and so on and so on. That he never meant any harm. But you would have said exactly the same thing 24 hours ago, with just as much sincerity, and you'd have been just as cataclysmically wrong. Between the threat of litigation and the actual damages BIGMAC might generate, we can't even afford to insure him anymore. Yesterday he was an awkward white elephant. Today he's a touchy suitcase nuke. My job is to get the nuke off of our site." 
“It’s an emerald, in this case,” said Captain Grey. 
Lexy straightened up in her chair, and stared at him. 
“You don’t really mean that?” she demanded. “There isn’t really an emerald?” He smiled. 
“I’m afraid it hasn’t much to do with the case—with either of the cases,” he said; “but there is an emerald—my sister’s.” 
“It didn’t come from India?” 
“It did, though!” 
“Don’t tell me it was stolen from a temple! That would be too good to be true!” 
“I’m sorry,” he said; “but as far as I know, it’s never been stolen at all, and its history for the last eighty years hasn’t been sinister. One of the old rajahs gave it to my grandfather—a reward of merit, you know. When my father married, it went to my mother. She never had any trouble with it. She never wore it, because she didn’t like it.” 
“Why?” 
“Well, you see, it’s an ostentatious sort of thing, and she wasn’t ostentatious.” He paused a moment. “My father told me, before he died, that he wanted Muriel to have it when she was eighteen; and so, three years ago, I sent it over to her.” 
After endless false starts that elicited utility screens I couldn't get rid of, I finally brought up an index of files, which included a long list of names. 
Biology 103—which I hated—was coming back. Plant-extract categories. Looks like he actually is doing research on the flora here. But . . . still, what does he need my ova for? 
I scrolled on. Scientific terms that meant nothing. Then, toward the end of the alphabetical list, I came to the word QUETZAL. 
What was that? I clicked on it and—lo and behold—up came a short list of names. Six in all, organized by dates about a year apart, and each a woman. 
My God. First I assumed they were patients from Quetzal Manor who'd come here for fertility treatment, though each was indicated "terminated" at the end, whatever that meant. But as I scanned down, I didn't want to see what I was seeing. The name next to the last was S. Crenshaw. She'd been "ter­minated" too. 
The bottom was M. James. But I hadn't been "termi­nated." Not yet. 
I slumped back in the chair, trying to breathe. How much more of this horror could I handle? Finally I leaned forward again and with a trembling hand clicked on S. Crenshaw. 
hugging a pillow as if it were a teddy bear. “Up all night editing,” 
Sarah whispered as we slipped into the adjoining room. The others had left for the airport after the conference ended, but Tyler had agreed to pay for the suite for as long as she needed it, so long as his company got a film credit. 
I switched on my laptop, checked to make sure the part of the video I didn’t want anyone to see, ever, was completely edited out, 
and copied it to a USB drive. As she downloaded it to her Mac, 
I filled her in on what had happened and the meeting that was scheduled for noon today. “I have to get back there and film what happens.” 
“Are you sure?” she said. “They’ll send experienced federal agents. They won’t be as easy to fool.” 
“I’ll go early and explain to Marita and Danny that they’re being set up. Then we can plan how to handle whoever the FBI sends. If I get the meeting on tape — ” 
“You’ll be in the room with them?” 
“I’ll tell the FBI guys I want to be in on it. You know, for my brother’s sake.” 
My crazy old roommate Tony works in Operations 1, too, in the basement. I know this because this morning I saw him getting off the slidewalk and going to the basement elevators. He sure looked worried. I ran up to him and said Hi and he looked at me in my suit and his eyes bugged out and then he said Hi, too. 
I told Rhindquist about him, and he said that he thought Tony had interesting prospects and he would keep an eye on him. I tried to tell him about Vasquez and the new guy but then his phone rang and he talked for a long time. He sounded angry, and he shouted that he didn't care what it took -- get him Redmond! Even if you have to nuke it! I have a small TV on my desk, and I used it to look up Redmond, but it kept saying, See Microsoft. I asked Rhindquist about it and he said that Redmond is what Microsoft used to be called before they incorporated. He is always talking like that, calling things by their old names. 
It was quitting time then, so I went home and wrote you this letter. 
<Gargle> All over it. The reverse sting was her idea. 
<wrathof cohen> Wait, Shad's the girl? The one who made it all happen? :: reels:: <ferret> Shad, what's the latest on your brother? 
<ferret> Pinging Shad. 
<Falstaff> she brb-d. 
<DoDec> He took a plea for time served. A lot less time than the informant who got them all in trouble, which seems right. 
<Shad> I'm back. Was helping someone with her CS homework. Say hi to my friend Wheeze. 
<ferret> welcome Wheeze. 
<Gargle> welcome, f riend-of-Shad . 
<Wheeze> Nice to be here. 
<wrathof cohen> You mean the one who called himself Zip? Yeah, the film said he had out- standing warrants in three states. 
<DoDec> They competed to see who would get to lock him up first. Michigan won. 
<Falstaff> The FBI goon who cooked it all up got promoted, though. HULK SMASH <ferret> Are you tutoring, Shad? 
<Shad> If that means getting paid, then no. 
<Falstaff> if $$ then tutoring else ((^ex- ploitation) 
<Shad> hee . She's a friend. But funny b/c we were just working on conditional statements. 
I had a feeling I’d be hearing a lot of dumb jokes like that, but it was okay for Nikko to goof off so long as what we were plan- ning actually worked. I fiddled a little more with my chain, then I hiked back to the crowd. Some television crews had shown up. 
I stayed out of their range as I checked out the Twitter hashtag #Freethe9 as people made speeches, including some law professor who seemed to specialize in Twitter-sized sound bites. 
I noticed a scruffy-looking white guy approaching one of the few black women in the crowd. His scruffiness wasn’t like the students who grew scraggly beards and wore expensively torn clothes. His look came from not having a place to sleep and not knowing anybody who owned a couch that he could surf on. 
The woman he spoke to shook her head and he turned to move through the crowd, his expression tense, like he knew he didn’t belong. As I watched, he approached another black girl who was cheering the law professor. He leaned close. She said something angry and backed away. 
Dad came down. 
"Do you use the Xnet?" he said. He looked intensely at my face. I felt myself squirm. 
"It's for video-games," I said. "That's what most people use it for. It's just a wireless network. It's what everyone did with those free Xboxes they gave away last year." 
He glowered at me. "Games? Marcus, you don't realize it, but you're providing cover for people who plan on attacking and destroying this country. I don't want to see you using this Xnet. Not anymore. Do I make myself clear?" 
I wanted to argue. Hell, I wanted to shake him by the shoulders. But I didn't. I looked away. I said, "Sure, Dad." I went to school. 
At first I was relieved when I discovered that they weren't going to leave Mr Benson in charge of my social studies class. But the woman they found to replace him was my worst nightmare. 
She was young, just about 28 or 29, and pretty, in a wholesome kind of way. She was blonde and spoke with a soft southern accent when she introduced herself to us as Mrs Andersen. That set off alarm bells right away. I didn't know any women under the age of sixty that called themselves "Mrs." 
Sean restrained himself from saying hello again, now that Grampa was switched on. He kept himself focused on the task of keeping Grampa switched on. "He wishes you'd die because he hates you and he hates himself for it. When you die, he can stop hating you and start mourning you. He knows it wasn't your fault. That's why I'm here. I want to collect your stories and make some sense out of them, before you die." Sean took a deep breath. "Will you stay switched on?" 
Grampa looked uncomfortable. "Your grandmother used to ask me that. I'd promise her I'd do it, every time, but then. . . It's not voluntary, Sean. It's reflex." 
"It's a learned reflex, Grampa. It's not breathing. You didn't ask to have the surgery, but you learned the reflex all on your own. You allow your attention to drop below the threshold, you allow the chip to switch you off. Some people do it less," he jerked his head at the other old men and women, playing their twitch games and shouting argument at each other. "Some don't do it at all." 
Jane then kissed Rebecca, giving a somewhat better imitation of the real thing than her sister. "Put the trunk in the entry, Jeremiah, and we'll get it carried upstairs this afternoon," she said. 
"I'll take it up for ye now, if ye say the word, girls." 
"No, no; don't leave the horses; somebody'll be comin' past, and we can call 'em in." 
"Well, good-by, Rebecca; good-day, Mirandy 'n' Jane. You've got a lively little girl there. I guess she'll be a first-rate company keeper." 
Miss Sawyer shuddered openly at the adjective "lively" as applied to a child; her belief being that though children might be seen, if absolutely necessary, they certainly should never be heard if she could help it. "We're not much used to noise, Jane and me," she remarked acidly. 
Mr. Cobb saw that he had taken the wrong tack, but he was too unused to argument to explain himself readily, so he drove away, trying to think by what safer word than "lively" he might have described his interesting little passenger. 
It made me feel a little better, but I still felt knots in my stom- ach, picturing Wheeze and thinking about cold and pain and hunger and whether I could fix it before the FBI caught up with him - or found him frozen stiff and starved to death. 
The knots were still there when Nikko showed up at our meet- ing place. I had decided on Wilson, a giant library at the university (and my brother’s namesake because our mom practically lived there when she was a pregnant student; it was lucky she wasn’t a chemistry major or he’d be named Walter after the science library). 
Though there were security cameras all over campus, the library itself was pretty good about not spying on people inside the building. All that the surveillance cameras outside the library would show is two people arriving separately among the hundreds who would go through the library’s doors that day. Once we were indoors, we didn’t have to worry about any cameras recording our meeting. 
I had scored a group study room on the second floor, which by coincidence was close to the art books, so after I Convo’d Nikko telling him where to meet me I fetched a bunch of...  and spread them around the table so it would look like we were working on our group project for school. 
“Lanie,” he said, as he sat me down. “You’re a smart girl, I know that. Trig. You wouldn’t know where your old Da could get a printer and some goop?” 
I squeezed my hands into fists so tight my fingernails cut into my palms. I closed my eyes. “You’ve been in prison for ten years, Da. Ten. Years. You’re going to risk another ten years to print out more blenders and pharma, more laptops and designer hats?” 
He grinned. “I’m not stupid, Lanie. I’ve learned my lesson. There’s no hat or laptop that’s worth going to jail for. I’m not going to print none of that rubbish, never again.” He had a cup of tea, and he drank it now like it was whisky, a sip and then a long, satisfied exhalation. He closed his eyes and leaned back in his chair. 
“Come here, Lanie, let me whisper in your ear. Let me tell you the thing that I decided while I spent ten years in lockup. Come here and listen to your stupid Da.” 
I felt a guilty pang about ticking him off. He was off his rocker, that much was clear. God knew what he went through in prison. “What, Da?” I said, leaning in close. 
"In case you change your mind and decide to join me." He placed a bowl opposite where he was planning to sit. "Like I said, there're unusual herbs around here with flavors you've never dreamed of." 
He began eating, while behind him I glimpsed Marcelina moving down the hall, carrying more trays of vaccine and headed out toward the vestibule again. I had to find a way to talk to her. 
As I settled into the rickety chair that faced my plate, I glanced down and saw a red lumpy mixture with a spray of indefinable green specks across the top like a scattering of jungle stars. No way. 
When I looked up again, he was swabbing his lips with a white napkin, his penetrating eyes boring in. 
"Now," he said, "it's time we started concentrating on you. Got you going with your program." 
" M y program?" I stared back at him, feeling a jolt. With my thoughts completely focused on Sarah, the last thing on my mind was my own baby. 
"Now that you're here"—he smiled—"there's no reason we shouldn't proceed. This is, after all, a place of miracles." 
“Fine,” I said. The room was still whirling a little anyway. 
Arthur took another glance back toward my neatly grouped glasses as we headed toward the door. “Fibonacci series?” 
I looked back at the bar. “Sequence,” I corrected. I hadn’t realized I’d been doing it. 
“Like to see the world the way you do some time,” said Arthur. 
Vectors stretched out around me in a thousand variations, constantly reforming, lengthening, summing in infinite combinations like I was in the middle of some fucking chess game and couldn’t help but see twenty steps ahead in all directions, and I dearly wished I’d been able to have more alcohol. “No,” I told Arthur. “You wouldn’t.” 
Professor Sonya Halliday, well-known luminary in the fields of cryptography and complexity theory, greeted us the next morning at the door of her on-campus office. With its sprawling California architecture and palm tree-lined avenues, the university was one of those places that tried so hard to be warm and cheerful that it automatically made me feel rebelliously depressed. 
Rebecca leaped off the porch, snatched Alice Robinson from under the currant bushes, and, what was much more difficult, succeeded, by means of a complicated system of signals, in getting Emma Jane away from the Simpson party and giving them the slip altogether. They were much too small for certain pleasurable activities planned for that afternoon; but they were not to be despised, for they had the most fascinating dooryard in the village. 
In it, in bewildering confusion, were old sleighs, pungs, horse rakes, hogsheads, settees without backs, bed-steads without heads, in all stages of disability, and never the same on two consecutive days. Mrs. Simpson was seldom at home, and even when she was, had little concern as to what happened on the premises. A favorite diversion was to make the house into a fort, gallantly held by a handful of American soldiers against a besieging force of the British army. Great care was used in apportioning the parts, for there was no disposition to let anybody win but the Americans. Seesaw Simpson was usually made commander-in-chief of the British army, and a limp and uncertain one he was, capable, with his contradictory orders and his fondness for the extreme rear, of leading any regiment to an inglorious death. Sometimes the long-suffering house was a log hut, and the brave settlers defeated a band of hostile Indians, or occasionally were massacred by them; but in either case the Simpson house looked, to quote a Riverboro expression, "as if the devil had been having an auction in it." 
“But how awfully queer!” 
“You may well say ‘queer,’” said Mrs. Royce. “There she stays, out in that lonely place—never seeing a soul from one month’s end to another. She’s a young woman, too—young, an’ just as pretty as a picture.” 
“Then you are—” 
“I’m one of the few that has seen her,” said Mrs. Royce, with a sort of grim satisfaction. “That’s why I take a kind of special interest in her. I seen her the night the doctor brought her here to Wyngate a young bride. That’ll be three years ago this winter, but I remember it as plain as plain. There was a terrible snowstorm, and he couldn’t git out to his place, so he had to bring her here, and she sat right in this very room, just where you’re sitting.” 
Instinctively Lexy looked behind her. 
“I feel that same way myself—as if she was a ghost,” said Mrs. Royce solemnly. “Near three years ago, and her living only three miles off, an’ I’ve never set eyes on her again. I’ve never forgotten her, though, the sweet pretty young creature!” 
“But why do you suppose she lives like that?” 
"We're getting a little ahead of the lesson, but you seem like an advanced group." The others laughed at this, nervously. 
"The role of government is to secure for citizens the rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. In that order. It's like a filter. If the government wants to do something that makes us a little unhappy, or takes away some of our liberty, it's OK, providing they're doing it to save our lives. That's why the cops can lock you up if they think you're a danger to yourself or others. You lose your liberty and happiness to protect life. If you've got life, you might get liberty and happiness later." 
Some of the others had their hands up. "Doesn't that mean that they can do anything they want, if they say it's to stop someone from hurting us in the future?" 
"Yeah," another kid said. "This sounds like you're saying that national security is more important than the Constitution." 
I was so proud of my fellow students then. I said, "How can you protect freedom by suspending the Bill of Rights?" 
The count of her extracted ova. Kill him. Just kill him. 
A lot of medical terminology I couldn't interpret followed each number, but the note at the end required no degree. 
"Blastocyst material from embryos after third extraction shows 84% decrease in cellular viability. No longer usable." 
My God, had he made her permanently sterile? 
While that obscenity was sinking in, I went back and clicked on my own name. The date was today, the number was 233. He'd just taken 233 of my ova. I stared at the screen and felt faint. 
No medical analysis had yet been entered, but it didn't matter. I stared at the screen, feeling numb, for a full minute before clicking back to Sarah's page. Yes, I was right. The last date was just six weeks before she was found in a coma, down the river from here. . . . 
No more mystery. He'd...  and they'd finally stopped working. Not "special" anymore. So her "program" had been "terminated." In the river. 
My stomach was churning, bile in my throat, and I thought I was going to throw up. I took a deep breath, slowly, and stopped myself. Before I got Sarah and we got the hell out of Baalum , I was going to smash everything in this lab. 
She sprang up and went over to the window. The sun was beginning to sink in a tranquil sky. It had been a beautiful day, but Lexy felt too weary and listless to go out. She remembered now that both Captain Grey and the landlady had urged her to do so, that they had both said it would do her good. Then they must have noted that something was wrong with her. What did they think it was? Did she look— She crossed the room and stood before the mirror. The rays of the setting sun fell upon her hair, turning it to copper and gold. It seemed to her to shine with a strange light about her pallid little face. Her eyes seemed enormous, somber, and terrible. 
She covered her face with her hands and flung herself on the bed, sick and desperate. She could not see any one, could not speak to any one. When a knock came at her loor, she thrust her fingers into her ears and lay there, with her eyes shut tight, trembling from head to foot; but the knocking went on until she could endure it no longer. 
“Yes?” she said, sitting up. 
"W1n5t0n," he said, spelling it out again. He gave me a hairy eyeball and waited for me to wilt. Of course it was my handle, and had been for years. It was the identity I used when I was posting on message-boards where I was making my contributions to the field of applied security research. You know, like sneaking out of school and disabling the minder-tracer on my phone. But he didn't know that this was my handle. Only a small number of people did, and I trusted them all to the end of the earth. 
"Um, not ringing any bells," I said. I'd done some pretty cool stuff around school using that handle -- I was very proud of my work on snitch-tag killers -- and if he could link the two identities, I'd be in trouble. No one at school ever called me w1n5t0n or even Winston. Not even my pals. It was Marcus or nothing. 
Benson settled down behind his desk and tapped his class-ring nervously on his blotter. He did this whenever things started to go bad for him. Poker players call stuff like this a "tell" -- something that let you know what was going on in the other guy's head. I knew Benson's tells backwards and forwards. 
I think he’s a rat, I started to type, but I deleted it. What if I couldn’t trust Wheeze? What if someone else was getting these messages? Then I got pissed off and typed it again. 
<zen> He's a rat. 
There was another long pause. Wheeze was doing what I’d done weeks ago - running through everything Zip had said, every- thing he had done. 
Zip had crashed on a couch at their house after a protest and had been living there ever since. Everybody loved him. He was older than Wilson and a lot more of a take-charge kind of guy. 
more secret. The late night conversations they always had about how messed up everything was and how things should be differ- ent were getting real. 
Zip was taking their progressive political baloney and convinc- ing them that they should do something about it. Make stuff hap- pen, not just talk about it. 
Wheeze didn’t like Zip. He didn’t like the way he was changing the mood of the house, and he didn’t trust his charm or believe his big stories, and all of the political talk made him nervous. But he wasn’t as cynical as I was, so it probably never occurred to him that Zip might be setting them up to be headline news, a reassur- ing victory in the war on terror. 
It took two hours, but between us we narrowed it down to 23 possible addresses, then down to ten, then finally - <Kadabra> Bingo ! 
<Gargle> Why are you playing Bingo? The rest of us are doing actual work. 
<Kadabra> It's the one on Bedford. Smartass. 
<Gargle> You sure? 
<tork> I'm betting on that condo on Snelling . 
<Gargle> Why Bedford? 
<Kadabra> Triangulation. Prop tax, DMV, 
voter reg all match. 
<tork> too small for a big time lawyer. 
<Kadabra> You don't get rich defending the people she defends . 
<tork> But given her age? I think the condo is it . 
<DoDec> Wait, is that mail I see on the stoop? 
<Kadabra> yup and her name is on it. 
<Falstaff> HUH ?!? 
<tork> Those satellite images are old. 
<Kadabra> Not that old. Zoom in. 
<tork> Holy sh ! t your right <callmecheese> You mean ***you' re***, you idiot <inky> Who called the grammar police? 
<Falstaff> And so the apostrophe wars con- tinued, laying waste to the land. 
<ferret> Breathe, Cheese. You have to breathe through the contractions . 
As we crested a hill and saw Jane’s farm below us, Bree pulled over so we could roll down the windows, smell the fresh spring air, 
and listen to the country sounds of birds and chirping bugs and wind rustling across the fields. “It’s so pretty out here,” she mur- mured. “I’m glad we came, even if I’m behind on all of my classes. 
Especially computer science. I’m so totally lost in that course.” 
“Zen can help with your homework,” Nikko said. “If you trade some nuts or pickled vegetables.” 
“No picked vegetables. I’ll help for free,” I said. “Wheeze loves it out here. He says it feels like home.” Considering he’d been moving from place to place since he was nineteen, riding the rails, 
staying with friends, or squatting in foreclosed houses, I knew it wasn’t just an empty phrase. 
“You like him, don’t you?” Nikko said, glancing at me in the backseat. Apparently the answer showed in my face because he grinned and gave me a gentle bop on the side of the head. “She likes him a lot,” he told Bree. 
As I followed her out into the drifting white and across the parking lot, the accumulation of snow was growing denser, enough now to start covering the cars, but still, some­thing told me the flurry was going to be short-lived. I took a long, misty breath of the moist air and clicked open the case holding the Betacam, readying myself to take it out the minute we got inside. 
Well, I thought, maybe I've gotten lucky. She was headed for the new clinic, which was exactly where I wanted to go. It was nestled in the trees, up a winding pathway, and as I slogged along I could feel the snow melting through my sneakers. 
When we got to the front door, large and made of glass, she just pushed it open. 
"We never lock anything," she declared, glancing back. "It's one of our rules." 
The hallway was dark, silent, and empty except for the two of us. Still, I felt a tinge of caution as we entered. At some level this was trespassing. 
"Come on," she said, casually flipping a switch on the right-hand wall and causing the overhead fluorescents to blink on. "He's away now, and everybody's in bed. But I'll bet they're still awake in here. It's a perfect time." 
All day long the four words haunted and possessed Rebecca; she said them over to herself continually. Even the prosaic Emma Jane was affected by them, for in the evening she said, "I don't expect you to believe it, but I have another idea,—that's two in one day; I had it while I was putting cologne on your head. The rose of joy might be helpfulness." 
"If it is, then it is always blooming in your dear little heart, you darlingest, kind Emmie, taking such good care of your troublesome Becky!" 
"Don't dare to call yourself troublesome! You're—you're—you're my rose of joy, that's what you are!" And the two girls hugged each other affectionately. 
In the middle of the night Rebecca touched Emma Jane on the shoulder softly. "Are you very fast asleep, Emmie?" she whispered. 
"Not so very," answered Emma Jane drowsily. 
"I've thought of something new. If you sang or painted or wrote,—not a little, but beautifully, you know,—wouldn't the doing of it, just as much as you wanted, give you the rose of joy?" 
And the thing was, it might actually work. Like everyone else, I get my news from automated filters that tried to figure out what to pay attention to, and the filters were supposed to be "neutral," whatever that meant. They produced "organic" results that predicted what we'd like based on an "algorithm." The thing is, an algorithm sounds like physics , like nature , like it was some kind of pure cold reason that dictated our attentional disbursements. Everyone always talked about how evil and corrupt the old system -- with its "gatekeepers" in the form of giant media companies -- was, how it allowed politicians and corporations to run the public discourse. 
But I'm a geek. A third generation geek. I know that what the public thinks of as an "algorithm" is really a bunch of rules that some programmers thought up for figuring out how to give people something they'd probably like. There's no empirical standard, no pure, freestanding measurement of That Which Is Truly Relevant To You against which the algorithm can be judged. The algorithm might be doing a lousy job, but you'd never know it, because there's nothing to compare it against except other algorithms that all share the same fundamental assumptions. 
“Nothing,” Robbie said. “I didn’t tell him anything.” 
She shook her head. “But I bet he had plenty to tell you , didn’t he? What a bitch I am, making and then leaving him, a fickle woman who doesn’t know her own mind.” 
Robbie didn’t say anything. 
“Let’s see, what else?” She was pacing now, her voice hot and choked, unfamiliar sounds coming from Janet’s voicebox. “He told you I was a pervert, didn’t he? Queer for his kind. Incest and bestiality in the rarified heights of the noosphere.” 
Robbie felt helpless. This human was clearly experiencing a lot of pain, and it seemed like he’d caused it. 
“Please don’t cry,” he said. “Please?” 
She looked up at him, tears streaming down her cheeks. “Why the fuck not ? I thought it would be different once I ascended. I thought I’d be better once I was in the sky, infinite and immortal. But I’m the same Kate Eltham I was in 2019, a loser that couldn’t meet a guy to save my life, spent all my time cybering losers in moggs, and only got the upload once they made it a charity thing. I’m gonna spend the rest of eternity like that, you know it? How’d you like to spend the whole of the universe being a, a, a nobody ?” 
"You have to be a member to drink here," Ria said, as they sat on the roof, watching the jetpacks scud past. 
"I'm not surprised," he said. "It must be expensive." 
"You can't buy your way in," she said. "You have to work it off. It's a co-op. I planted this whole row of trees." She waved her arm, sloshing a little daquiri on the odd turf their loungers rested on. "I planted the mint garden over there." It was a beautiful little patch, decorated with rocks and favored with a small stream that wended its way through them. 
"Forgive me for saying this," he said, "but you must earn a lot of money. A lot , I'm thinking." She nodded, unembarrassed, even waggled her eyebrows a bit. "So you could, I don't know, you could probably build one of these on any of the buildings that Viktor owns in Manhattan. Just like this. Even keep a little staff on board. Give out memberships as perks for your senior management team." 
"That's right," she said. "I could." 
He drank his daquiri. "I'm supposed to figure out why you don't, right?" 
Uplifted coral reef . 
“That.” 
So what’s your point? 
“Asimovism is for robots, Robbie.” 
Sorry, I just don’t see the difference anymore. 
On a chunk of supercooled rock beyond Pluto, he got an IM from a familiar address. 
“Get off my rock,” it said. 
“I know you,” Robbie said. “I totally know you. Where do I know you from?” 
“I’m sure I don’t know.” 
And then he had it. 
“You’re the one. With the reef. You’re the one who—” The voice was the same, cold and distant. 
“It wasn’t me,” the voice said. It was anything but cold now. Panicked was more like it. 
Robbie had the reef on speed-dial. There were bits of it everywhere in the Noosphere. It liked to colonize. 
“I found him.” It was all Robbie needed to say. He skipped to Saturn’s rings, but the upload took long enough that he got to watch the coral arrive and grimly begin an argument with its creator—an argument that involved blasting the substrate one chunk at a time. 
The last instance of Robbie the Row-boat ran very, very slow and cool on a piece of unregarded computronium in Low Earth Orbit. He didn’t like to spend a lot of time or cycles talking with anyone else. He hadn’t made a backup in half a millennium. 
"What about colleagues? Other people like me who you might have told when you were too drunk to keep your mouth shut?" 
Ray laughs grimly. "Dead." 
"You're certain?" 
"The CIU doesn't make mistakes when it comes to certifying the loss of field assets. When the agency says you're dead, there's no coming back." 
"That makes for an interesting problem, then." Becker says this...  generals might when confronted with a horde of Scythians, gold bedecked and poisoned arrow tips glistening beneath the sun, rushing on horseback up from the steppes. "Someone is trying to send you a message, my friend. And I suspect they'll keep trying to send it until you get it or until we catch him." 
Ray says: "So, okay." 
It's the sort of meaningless, syntactic noise meant to indicate that they'd smashed into a brick wall. Becker peers at him as though he expects answers to spring from Ray's forehead as fully formed and jaw-droppingly voluptuous as a Greek goddess. But Ray has nothing left to give him. 
Becker sees this for what it is, an excuse to escape. "What do you want me to do with the two Marines?" 
That was...actually a pretty decent story. It even made Zhang out as some sort of hero, albeit a guilty one. 
Of course, it meant more work for us. Goddamn Arthur. 
“I’m on Zhang,” continued Arthur. “We’ll try to spin this so it points to the Lancer—that would make sense. Russell, I’m gonna need Checker for a few hours to find out what footprints the professors might’ve left, but after that, you and he get on finding Martinez. For now, we ain’t telling the Feds a lick about her involvement. Got it?” 
The last thing I wanted to do right now was work with Checker. I supposed it couldn’t be helped, not unless I turned my back on the whole thing entirely, and as tempting as that sounded... 
God damn Arthur. 
“Arthur,” said Halliday. He looked down at her, and she nodded to him, a deliberate, meaningful gesture. 
He nodded back. “We’ll get to the bottom of this, Sonya. Promise.” 
Arthur went inside to give the DHS agents his story, presumably with a big song-and-dance about how he’d wanted to break it to Halliday gently first that her friend Zhang was a thief. I sat out on the deck and waited. They’d probably want to interview me, too, and I planned to say I didn’t know a damn thing. 
"If you are tired, poor little Princess, why do you not go into the cool green forest and rest?" asked the Fairy Godmother. 
"Because I have no time," she answered. "I must go back to my plough." 
"Is that your plough leaning by the tree, and is it not too heavy?" 
"It is heavy," answered the Princess, "but I love to turn the hard earth into soft furrows and know that I am making good soil wherein my seeds may grow. When I feel the weight too much, I try to think of the harvest." 
The golden chariot passed on, and the two talked no more together that day; nevertheless the King's messengers were busy, for they whispered one word into the ear of the Fairy Godmother and another into the ear of the Princess, though so faintly that neither of them realized that the King had spoken. 
The next morning a strong man knocked at the cottage door, and doffing his hat to the Princess said: "A golden chariot passed me yesterday, and one within it flung me a purse of ducats, saying: 'Go out into the King's Highway and search until you find a cottage and a heavy plough leaning against a tree near by. Enter and say to the Princess whom you will find there: "I will guide the plough and you must go and rest, or walk in the cool green forest; for this is the command of your Fairy Godmother."'" 
“It’s buried deep. I got a tech guy. He can only find bits and pieces. But it’s far-reaching. My client’s husband, he was a journalist. Started digging into some things. Political decisions, that sort of stuff, ones that didn’t make sense. Nutso crime spikes. Chances are they could’ve left him alive; I don’t think he ever saw the connection.” 
“What connection?” 
“Pithica. Just the word. Buried deep. Didn’t find it linked up to all the things he been looking at, but it was enough to be, uh, a ‘statistically significant correlation.’ Or so say my tech guy.” 
His tech guy must be good. Anton had been able to find almost nothing. “And you think Pithica killed him. The journalist.” 
“Sounds crazy, but yeah. Some of what we found, it was a pattern—it’s too similar, the MO of his murder. Can’t prove it, not yet, but his death’s got Pithica all over it.” 
“So Courtney Polk is, what, some sort of secret government agent?” 
“Always the ones you least suspect, right? She’s the only one who could have done it. We managed to figure out she saw my guy day-of.” 
I made a cup of Echinacea tea and then washed down 2000 mg of Vitamin C with some aging orange juice from my fridge, after which I took a couple of Tylenol, put on yesterday's jeans, and headed uptown to work. I also treated myself to a cab. 
When I settled into the cluttered corner room that was my office, I told myself this was not a day to make any big decisions. Just stick to matters that required nothing more than autopilot. 
The first thing I did was call Lou to check on Sarah (no change), and then I told him about my Hispanic visitor. He made concerned sounds and promised to accompany me on any further location shoots. 
Next I pulled out my date book and punched in a phone number I'd scribbled in the back. I'd gotten it when I was winding up my interview with Carly Grove. 
"Children of Light," said an unctuous voice. "This is Ramala." 
I hesitated a moment before giving my name. They already knew who I was; Ramala or somebody had called Paula Marks and asked about me. Me. What would she do when she heard it was yours truly in the flesh? 
/ think all of them are dead. 
Ray springs to his feet. From the drawer of his desk, he pulls his remote comm, like the one Kilgore and Rodriguez are wearing, and his pistol. It's almost impossible to pop the magazine to assure himself it's loaded and dial in the comm channel at the same time, but he manages it somehow. He jams the speaker into his ear,  pickups against his throat, stuffs the pistol in his waistband so he can transmit. What he hears on the open channel is the throbbing, staccato wail of technopunk music and a tangled cacophony of voices while the signal modulates to suppress ambient sound. 
Kilgore: "Yo!" 
Followed by Rodriguez, "I'm here." 
Ray says, "Scramble on Code Bravo." It's a message for both the recipients and their comm units. As soon as he says it, the antenna package in his hand begins to vibrate as its internal microcomputer phases in its voice encryption. This is a military comm, with military codes and descrambling protocols. Dead air fills the transmission, and Ray barks out the standard series of Code Bravo authorization digits. Every Marine knows them, which makes the scramble almost childishly simple, but it's better than a straight open line where anyone who happened to be tuned to their broadcast channel could overhear. At least this way, only other Marines might listen in. 
At that moment, Alex Goddard appeared in the doorway. He clicked on the light, looking puzzled. 
"Couldn't find the switch?" Then he glanced around. "Tara, did you get lost? I thought you were doing your medi­tation. It's Sunday. Afterwards, though, you can weed the north herb boxes if you want." 
She nodded silently, then grabbed the baggie and glided out, her brown eyes filled with both reverence and what seemed like fear. 
"Who was that?" I asked, staring after her, feeling unset­tled by the whole experience. "She seemed pretty intense." 
"Tara's been pretty intense for some time, perhaps for much of her life," he declared with a note of sadness as he closed the door behind her. "I've not been able to do anything for her, but I've let her stay on here since she has nowhere else to go. She loves the gardens, so I've let her work out there. It seems to improve her self-esteem, a kind of benign therapy, her own natural path toward centering." 
Well, I thought, she certainly could use some "centering." 
It was Saturday, and unfortunately I had no plans for the evening. Translation: no Steve. Back to where I started. How many million stories in the naked city, and I was just so many million plus one. It's not a jungle out there, it's a desert. 
The truth was, after Steve took off, I hadn't really been trying all that hard to pick myself up off the canvas and look around. Besides, I didn't want some other guy, I wanted him. Added to that, I somehow felt that when you're on the short countdown for forty, you shouldn't have to be going out on blind dates, wondering whether that buttoned-down MBA sitting across from you in some trendy Italian restaurant thinks you're a blimp (even though you skipped lunch), tell­ing yourself he's presentable, doesn't seem like a serial killer, has a job, only mentioned his mother once, and could qualify as an acceptable life's mate. There's no spark, but he's prob­ably quite nice. You wanly remember that old Barney's ad jingle, "Select, don't settle," but at this stage of life you're ready to admit you've flunked out in Love 101 and should just go with Like. 
"As I said, he was injected with a mild sedative." He had walked over and started taking Steve's pulse. "Given the . . . condition he was in, I decided to go with the simplest pro­cedure possible. After he was brought in, I made a small incision in the vas deferens and extracted a substantial quan­tity of motile sperm." He was turning down the lights. "Don't worry. I've performed the procedure before. The last was a Swedish tourist who was in a car accident up by Lake Atitlan and then lay in a coma in Guatemala City for weeks on end." 
I listened to him, my mind racing. I'd thought Kevin and Rachel looked Nordic, big and blond. That Swede must have been their father. 
"Those ova of mine you took, the way you stole Sarah's, and all the other women you've brought here—you don't use them for research." 
"I have ample leftover embryonic material here for that." He started helping me onto the bed next to Steve. Now his face was undulating through my vision, as though I were seeing it in a wavy mirror. "Please understand, it's very ex­pensive to run a laboratory up here. But the good I'm do­ing—" 
> I get it sure. That's not bad. But how you going to get everyone together for the key-signing? 
> That's what I wanted to ask you about -- how can we do it without getting busted? 
Jolu typed some words and erased them, typed more and erased them. 
> Darryl would know. 
I typed. 
> God, this was the stuff he was great at. 
> How about a party? 
he typed. 
> How about if we all get together somewhere like we're teenagers having a party and that way we'll have a ready-made excuse if anyone shows up asking us what we're doing there? 
> That would totally work! You're a genius, Jolu. 
> I know it. And you're going to love this: I know just where to do it, too... 
> Where? 
> Sutro baths! 
What would you do if you found out you had a spy in your midst? You could denounce him, put him up against the wall and take him out. But then you might end up with another spy in your midst, and the new spy would be more careful than the last one and maybe not get caught quite so readily. 
Here's a better idea: start intercepting the spy's communications and feed him and his masters misinformation. Say his masters instruct him to gather information on your movements. Let him follow you around and take all the notes he wants, but steam open the envelopes that he sends back to HQ and replace his account of your movements with a fictitious one. If you want, you can make him seem erratic and unreliable so they get rid of him. You can manufacture crises that might make one side or the other reveal the identities of other spies. In short, you own them. 
"So you're saying that you think the police should suck as hard as my spam filter?" I said. 
Dad never got angry at me for arguing with him, but tonight I could see the strain was running high in him. Still, I couldn't resist. My own father, taking the police's side! 
"I'm saying that it's perfectly reasonable for the police to conduct their investigations by starting with data-mining, and then following it up with leg-work where a human being actually intervenes to see why the abnormality exists. I don't think that a computer should be telling the police whom to arrest, just helping them sort through the haystack to find a needle." 
"But by taking in all that data from the transit system, they're creating the haystack ," I said. "That's a gigantic mountain of data and there's almost nothing worth looking at there, from the police's point of view. It's a total waste." 
"I understand that you don't like that this system caused you some inconvenience, Marcus. But you of all people should appreciate the gravity of the situation. There was no harm done, was there? They even gave you a ride home." 
“Sleep well, boss,” he said. 
“Don’t stick around here all night again,” Felix said. “You need your sleep, too.” 
“You’re too good to us grunts,” Van said, and went back to typing. 
Felix went to the door and walked out into the night. Behind him, the biodiesel generator hummed and made its acrid fumes. The harvest moon was up, which he loved. Tomorrow, he’d go back and fix another computer and fight off entropy again. And why not? 
It was what he did. He was a sysadmin. 
The easiest way to write futuristic (or futurismic) science fiction is to predict, with rigor and absolute accuracy, the present day. 
Anda’s Game is a sterling example of this approach. I ripped a story from the headlines—reports on blogs about a stunning presentation at a video-games conference about “gold farmers” in latinamerica who were being paid a pittance “grind” (undertake boring, repetitive wealth-creating tasks in a game) with the product of their labor sold on to rich northern gamers who wanted to level-up without all the hard work. 
She sat back down. "For someone who is supposed to know himself, you're not very good at connecting the dots." 
Lawrence stood up. He felt an obscure need to apologize. Instead, he thanked her and put his glass in the sink. She shook his hand solemnly. 
"Take care out there," she said. "Good luck finding your escapee." 
Here's what Lawrence knew about Zbigniew Krotoski. He had been inducted into the Order four years earlier. He was a native-born New Yorker. He had spent his first two years in the Order trying to coax some of the elders into a variety of pointless flamewars about the ethics of working for the Securitat, and then had settled into being a very productive member. He spent his 20 percent time -- the time when each monk had to pursue non-work-related projects -- building aerial photography rigs out of box-kites and tiny cameras that the Monks installed on their systems to help them monitor their body mechanics and ergonomic posture. 
Zbigkrot performed in the eighty-fifth percentile of the Order, which was respectable enough. Lawrence had started there and had crept up and down as low as 70 and as high as 88, depending on how he was doing in the rest of his life. Zbigkrot was active in the gardens, both the big ones where they grew their produce and a little allotment garden where he indulged in baroque cross-breeding experiments, which were in vogue among the monks then. 
He tilted his head, studying me again. I’d managed to surprise him. Clack, clack, clack. 
“I want a royalty,” I pressed. “A percentage. Of whatever you get from this.” 
“Done,” he said. “To be negotiated after we see what your work is worth.” 
“How do I know you’ll be fair?” I demanded, wondering if I was pushing too hard. 
“I could always shoot you now,” he said languidly. “On the other hand, I’m always fair to those who join me.” 
Huh. There was a very slight possibility here that he actually would want to recruit me permanently and not kill me no matter what. Too bad my allergy to authority kept me from being tempted. 
The Lancer sat back, self-satisfied, clacking his meditation balls. 
We drove north, and north, and after many miles and a few stops we pulled up among some overgrown concrete ruins on a bluff overlooking the Pacific. One of the men uncuffed me from the door and hustled me out with them, not overly roughly. Perhaps he was being respectful of the implication that I might someday be one of them. 
Lee-Daniel knew he should have gotten them to pay upfront. Nothing got the blackshirts interested in private wireless networking like routing suspicious real-time chatter between Burmese guerrilla cells and suspected movie-swappers in DC. But that wasn't how CogRadio had been built. The native bands that were desperate enough to assert that their ancestral treaties didn't encompass the RF spectrum couldn't afford to lay out cash for CogRadio's hardware, training and remote administration. CogRadio was as much a bank as a technology startup. 
With the investors off out of sight, the managers and the front-liners shucked their veneer of civility and began to get wild, ordering drinks and health-insurance-invalidating carbo-treats. Elaine sucked down three tequila cartons and glared bleary hostility at him. 
"The fuck do you know about anything , hey?" she said. "You're supposed to be in charge of things, but you don't take a shit without clearing it with those bastards." She jerked her head over her shoulder at the closed door of the private dining room. "And when you do make a decision, you fuck it up." The smell of old sweat and booze made his eyes water. 
"You got girls coming tonight? That why you got all the beer?" 
I smiled and waved at him as though he was walking back to his truck, which he should have been doing. He eventually got the hint and drove away. His smile never faltered. 
Jolu helped me hide the coolers in the rubble, working with little white LED torches on headbands. Once the coolers were in place, we threw little white LED keychains into each one, so it would glow when you took the styrofoam lids off, making it easier to see what you were doing. 
It was a moonless night and overcast, and the distant streetlights barely illuminated us. I knew we'd stand out like blazes on an infrared scope, but there was no chance that we'd be able to get a bunch of people together without being observed. I'd settle for being dismissed as a little drunken beach-party. 
I don't really drink much. There's been beer and pot and ecstasy at the parties I've been going to since I was 14, but I hated smoking (though I'm quite partial to a hash brownie every now and again), ecstasy took too long -- who's got a whole weekend to get high and come down -- and beer, well, it was all right, but I didn't see what the big deal was. My favorite was big, elaborate cocktails, the kind of thing served in a ceramic volcano, with six layers, on fire, and a plastic monkey on the rim, but that was mostly for the theater of it all. 
Why . . . why are there lights here?" Her lips were moving but her eyes were still fixed in a stare. Then, with that last, odd question, her gaze began to dart about the room, looking for someone who wasn't present. She settled on me for a moment, and I felt a chill from her plaintive vulnerability. When I tried to look back as benignly and lovingly as pos­sible, I couldn't help noticing how drawn her cheeks were, doubtless from the constant IV feeding, and again my heart went out. "I'm scared," she went on, "but—" 
"I'm here, honey," Lou declared, bending over her, his eyes pained. "Do you know who I am?" 
"The jade face . . . a mask," she babbled on, still ignoring him. "All the colors. It's so . . . so beautiful." 
Her hallucination didn't relate to anything I could under­stand. She clearly was off in another world, like when she was a kid, weaving the lights of the room now into some kind of dream. I touched Lou's shoulder and asked permis­sion to turn off the overhead fluorescents, but he just shrugged me off, his attention focused entirely on her. 
Before I had considered it, I had grabbed one of the stanchions attached to some velvet rope barriers, dragging it forward so the rest of its fellows collapsed to the floor behind it in a cacophony, and bashed the base of it into the stone like a battering ram. 
The crack echoed through the building, off all the other quiet stone tablets. I smashed the stanchion into my name again and again, until the stone cracked and crumbled, until the fissures spread out in spider webs across neighboring cover stones. Then I threw the impromptu mallet to the floor and dug at the pieces, scrabbled at them until my fingers bled, tearing them out of the way until I could see inside. 
The urn set in the dimness was a simple metal one, unadorned. I yanked it out and swept off the top. 
It was empty. 
No. Not empty. I’d expected ashes—expected human ashes, behind a cover stone with my name on it in a graveyard some unconscious command had driven me to, morbidly expected to be holding what purported to be my own remains. But the inside of the urn was clean and ash-free, still new and shiny, with only a folded piece of paper at the bottom. 
Some kind of bird sacred to the Maya Indians of Central America. But then Paula had mentioned at one point that he was very interested in indigenous Third World herbs and remedies. So maybe it fit. 
But still, one big puzzle kept coming back to haunt: How do you produce perfectly healthy siblings six months apart? (I actually called Carly and Paula back to verify the ages.) The more I thought about Kevin and Rachel, the more I realized they were so unmistakably related. 
Puzzling over that, I began to wonder if maybe I was on the verge of uncovering a blockbuster documentary. Could we be talking something approaching science fiction here? Making documentaries, you're always on the lookout for the unexpected, the fresh. So how about an organization that could obtain beautiful Caucasian babies seemingly at will, including peas-in-a-pod born a few months apart? I was al­ready framing a pitch to David in my mind. 
They hadn't. First off, to get a child in three or four months, you'd almost certainly have to go with foreign adoption. China was everybody's flavor of the month, because they favored older parents and also because the one-child-per-family policy there had ended up producing a wide-scale abandonment of girls (who were all those precious boys going to marry? I often found myself wondering). However, the shifting poli­tics there made the process very unreliable. A few months? Don't even think about it. 
“What would be cool,” I said in the silence, and realized it felt good to have the guys all turn to me, as if I actually knew what I was talking about. Also scary, because I hadn’t figured my idea out yet and it might turn out to be stupid. “What if we could lure someone from Terhune’s team into a situation where they set up another fake terrorist threat like they did with Wilson? But we secretly recorded the whole process so we can show the world exactly how they operate.” 
“Turn the tables and surveille them,” Zeke said, saluting me with his beer bottle. “Sweet.” 
Tyler was nodding. “A documentary approach. Which makes me think . . .” 
“Sarah?” Geoff murmured. 
“She’d totally love this. I’ll ping her and see if she’d be inter- ested.” 
“Who’s Sarah?” I asked. 
“The filmmaker? She makes those political documentaries and releases them in serial form? Basically invented blitzdocs. If we could get fi lm of an FBI informant orchestrating one of these man- ufactured terrorist threats, she could turn it into something amaz- ing. And she has a ton of followers. It would go viral in no time.” 
Then came the sight of Abijah Flagg shelling beans in the barn, and then the Perkins attic windows with a white cloth fluttering from them. She could spell Emma Jane's loving thought and welcome in that little waving flag; a word and a message sent to her just at the first moment when Riverboro chimneys rose into view; something to warm her heart till they could meet. 
The brick house came next, looking just as of yore; though it seemed to Rebecca as if death should have cast some mysterious spell over it. There were the rolling meadows, the stately elms, all yellow and brown now; the glowing maples, the garden-beds bright with asters, and the hollyhocks, rising tall against the parlor windows; only in place of the cheerful pinks and reds of the nodding stalks, with their gay rosettes of bloom, was a crape scarf holding the blinds together, and another on the sitting-room side, and another on the brass knocker of the brown-painted door. 
"Stop, uncle Jerry! Don't turn in at the side; hand me my satchel, please; drop me in the road and let me run up the path by myself. Then drive away quickly." 
“How old did you say you were?” 
“Six months. But I’m an instance of an artificial personality that has logged twenty thousand years of parallel existence. I’m not a kid or anything.” 
“You seem like a nice person,” Robbie began. He stopped. “Look the thing is that this just isn’t my department. I’m the rowboat. I don’t have anything to do with this. And I don’t want to. I don’t like the idea of non-humans using the shells—” 
“I knew it!” Tonker crowed. “You’re a bigot! A self-hating robot. I bet you’re an Asimovist, aren’t you? You people are always Asimovists.” 
“I’m an Asimovist,” Robbie said, with as much dignity as he could muster. “But I don’t see what that has to do with anything.” 
“Of course you don’t, pal. You wouldn’t, would you. All I want you to do is figure out how to enforce your own rules so that I can get with my girl. You’re saying you can’t do that because it’s not your department, but when it comes down to it, your problem is that I’m a robot and she’s not, and for that, you’ll take the side of a collection of jumped up polyps. Fine, buddy, fine. You have a nice life out there, pondering the three laws.” 
"No." 
"How is it different from sleep?" Sean asked. 
"I usually switch on for sleep -- my subconscious is pretty good at entertaining me, actually. When I switch off, I just. . . go away. I remember it later, like it was a book that got read directly into my brain, but I'm not there . It's fucking great. You'd love it, Sean. You should get the surgery. I hear that there's a lot of black-market clinics where you can get it done: South-East Asia. The sex-trade, you know." 
Sean struggled to keep the discussion on-track. Grampa was often hostile when he was switched on, and his father always rose to the bait. Sean wasn't going to. "How do you know that you're not there? Maybe you're there the whole time, bored stupid, screaming in frustration, and you forget it all as soon as you switch on?" 
Grampa raised an eyebrow at him. "Of course I am! But that's not the me that's important -- I'm the one that counts. And I get to fast-forward past all the slow parts. Which this is turning into, I'm afraid." 
And she went on. Sometimes a wild desire to run swept over her, but she would not hasten her steps, and she would not look behind. The primeval terror of the forest pressed upon her, but she cast it away. Alone, lost, in darkness and solitude, she kept her hold upon the one thing that mattered—the honor and dignity of her own soul. 
“I’m not afraid,” she said. 
And then she saw a light. At first she thought it was the moon, but it hung too low, and it was too brilliant. Even then she would not run. She went on steadily toward it. In a few minutes she stepped out of the woodland upon a road—a hard, asphalt road with lights along it. It was quite empty, it was unfamiliar to her, but she would have gone down on her knees and kissed the dust of it. It was a road, and all roads lead home. 
There were no stars and no moon, for the sky was filled with wild black clouds flying before the wind. Lexy could not guess at the time. She had no idea where she was, but it didn’t matter. The morning would come some time, and the road would lead somewhere. 
"I'm sure we'll see arrests in good time. You just wait." 
"Dad, what the hell has happened to you since last night? You were ready to go nuclear on the cops for pulling you over --" 
"Don't use that tone with me, Marcus. What's happened since last night is that I've had the chance to think it over and to read this ." He rattled his paper. "The reason they caught me is that the bad guys are actively jamming them. They need to adjust their techniques to overcome the jamming. But they'll get there. Meanwhile the occasional road stop is a small price to pay. This isn't the time to be playing lawyer about the Bill of Rights. This is the time to make some sacrifices to keep our city safe." 
I couldn't finish my toast. I put the plate in the dishwasher and left for school. I had to get out of there. 
The Xnetters weren't happy about the stepped up police surveillance, but they weren't going to take it lying down. Someone called a phone-in show on KQED and told them that the police were wasting their time, that we could monkeywrench the system faster than they could untangle it. The recording was a top Xnet download that night. 
Ray does, in fact. Better this than counting shells for the next twelve hours. At least this way they got to stand around and point guns at people. 
Together, they home in on Becker by chasing down the strident echoes of what seems to be a heated exchange. It reminds Ray of chasing...  through desert arroyos. Wrong turns, 
pauses at intersections to listen, dowsing for sounds. Finally, several blocks in and near what Ray assumes to be the center of the bay, they enter a sort of clearing. It's a hastily erected emptiness, apparently. Several crates have been maneuvered off to the side by a Bobcat forklift, cutting off the careful grid pattern with pell-mell obstructions. There was an attempt to stack some of the crates, but without the electromagnetic matrix to steady them, several have shifted, tumbled into passageways or tipped on their sides, suspended above the floor when they wedged between other containers. Given the roughly circular shape of the space and the arcanely fallen blocks, Ray thinks at once about Stonehenge- about stepping into the center of a bizarre druidic rite of sacrifice. 
She points an accusatory finger at him. "You don't think I have a tower, do you?" 
"I'm sure you do." 
"You filthy, little liar!" Emma explodes into laughter. "Now you must come down. It's a point of honor that I show you both my city and my tower-and the fact that my word is beyond reproach." 
Ray tries to think of something witty to say, something unembarrassing that will keep up his end of the bargaining, but he can't help but think that she's had much more practice at this sort of thing than he has. 
This is all well and good, this casual sexual repartee, punctuated by Emma's aggressive pursuit and frequent surge of pretty laughter. It has an underlying tone of intensity that Ray finds unsettling, but not in an unpleasant way. He is reminded that it has been a number of years since he engaged with a woman on this level, that is to say, on a level in which he wasn't mentally thumbing through the bills in his wallet or crunching the digits available on his cred account to determine if he could afford actual intercourse or would have to settle for a blow job— a transaction ultimately made that much more dicey by the fact those women generally spoke a brand of broken, transaction-oriented English that was all but unintelligible. 
They didn’t see a single soul on the fifteen minute walk. There wasn’t a single sound except for some bird noises and some distant groans, and the wind in the electric cables overhead. It was like walking on the surface of the moon. 
“Bet they have chocolate bars at the Shopper’s,” Van said. 
Felix’s stomach lurched. Food. “Wow,” he said, around a mouthful of saliva. 
They walked past a little hatchback and in the front seat was the dried body of a woman holding the dried body of a baby, and his mouth filled with sour bile, even though the smell was faint through the rolled-up windows. 
He hadn’t thought of Kelly or 2.0 in days. He dropped to his knees and retched again. Out here in the real world, his family was dead. Everyone he knew was dead. He just wanted to lie down on the sidewalk and wait to die, too. 
Van’s rough hands slipped under his armpits and hauled weakly at him. “Not now,” he said. “Once we’re safe inside somewhere and we’ve eaten something, then and then you can do this, but not now. Understand me, Felix? Not fucking now.” 
tasted his grotty mouth, felt his tongue poking around my teeth. 
I spat on the floor, then went over to the bed and pushed up his shirt to expose his white belly. I braced myself, waiting to see if he would rise up like a zombie. Then I wrote across his ribs and stom- ach in big block letters I AM A PIG AND A RAPIST It might not have been a totally accurate quote, but it was close enough. 
I called a cab, took enough money from Simon’s wallet to pay for it, then argued with the driver about putting my snowy bike in his trunk. I must have sounded extra fierce because he sud- denly gave in with a big sigh. 
The little house on Bedford Street was dark. I dug through the snow beside the steps to find the key under the stone turtle, 
which took a while. There were a lot of rocks under the snow doing stone-turtle imitations. My fingers were so sore and frozen by the time I found the key I could hardly pick it up. 
Inside, I made my way through a clutter of old boots and other junk to the staircase, where I found a pillow, some towels, and a big cotton T-shirt that said NATIONAL LAWYERS GUILD KNOW YOUR RIGHTS on it. There was a note on top, written in her spidery, old-fashioned handwriting. “Help yourself to food. 
I had given this some thought on the way home. "I got trapped," I said. "In Oakland. I was there with some friends, doing a project, and we were all quarantined." 
"For five days?" 
"Yeah," I said. "Yeah. It was really bad." I'd read about the quarantines in the Chronicle and I cribbed shamelessly from the quotes they'd published. "Yeah. Everyone who got caught in the cloud. They thought we had been attacked with some kind of super-bug and they packed us into shipping containers in the docklands, like sardines. It was really hot and sticky. Not much food, either." 
"Christ," Dad said, his fists balling up on the table. Dad teaches in Berkeley three days a week, working with a few grad students in the library science program. The rest of the time he consults for clients in city and down the Peninsula, third-wave dotcoms that are doing various things with archives. He's a mild-mannered librarian by profession, but he'd been a real radical in the sixties and wrestled a little in high school. I'd seen him get crazy angry now and again -- I'd even made him that angry now and again -- and he could seriously lose it when he was Hulking out. He once threw a swing-set from Ikea across my granddad's whole lawn when it fell apart for the fiftieth time while he was assembling it. 
"They had to go to the station for their valise and their children." 
"Are there children?" groaned Miranda. 
"Yes, aunt Miranda, all born under Syrian skies." 
"Syrian grandmother!" ejaculated Miranda (and it was not a fact). "How many?" 
"I didn't think to ask; but I will get two rooms ready, and if there are any over I'll take 'em into my bed," said Rebecca, secretly hoping that this would be the case. "Now, as you're both half sick, couldn't you trust me just once to get ready for the company? You can come up when I call. Will you?" 
"I believe I will," sighed Miranda reluctantly. "I'll lay down side o' Jane in our bedroom and see if I can get strength to cook supper. It's half past three—don't you let me lay a minute past five. I kep' a good fire in the kitchen stove. I don't know, I'm sure, why I should have baked a pot o' beans in the middle of the week, but they'll come in handy. Father used to say there was nothing that went right to the spot with returned missionaries like pork 'n' beans 'n' brown bread. Fix up the two south chambers, Rebecca." 
I felt Arthur’s hand on my elbow in the bar again, heard the tension in his voice as he asked for help. 
That was before he went to the authorities. He doesn’t want you in on this anymore. 
What if I stepped off the case and Halliday died? 
What if I stepped off the case and the DHS found Halliday and then buried her and Arthur and Checker and Pilar so deep no one ever saw them again? 
I wiped off the sweat dampening my forehead with another Five Spirit Valley Karate T-shirt. 
But what could I do anyway? Unless Checker came up with another approach, I’d run out of leads to chase down. 
Everything had been taken out of my hands. I had no responsibility here. Face it, you’re only clinging to this job because you want something to cling to. 
It was probably true. 
That was it, then. I was done. 
Fuck that noise, said something deep in the back of my brain. You’re not done. Arthur asked for your help—stop whining and help. 
I winced. 
I’d go back to Checker’s. Whatever he was working on to track the explosives expert or the Lancer, I could probably be valuable. I could even grit my teeth and tolerate it if Pilar took the intel to the NSA afterward—the important part was that someone would find Halliday. Or maybe we’d discover enough for me to go out after her again myself, once I’d regained a little energy. That would be a far more preferable course of events. 
"You don't think he did?" 
I shook my head. "I have a theory." 
"All right, tell me." 
I shrugged. "I'm not a computer scientist, you understand. But I've seen this kind of thing before in self-modifying systems, they become dependent on tiny variables that you can never find, optimized for weird stuff like the fact that one rack has a crappy power supply that surges across the backplane at regular intervals, and that somehow gets integrated into the computational model. Who knows? Those old Intel eight-cores are freaky. Lots of quantum tunneling at that scale, and they had bad QA on some batches. Maybe he's doing something spooky and quantum, but that doesn't mean he's some kind of Penrose proof." 
She pooched her lower lip out and rocked her head from side to side. "So you're saying that the only way to archive BIGMAC is to keep it running, as is, in the same room, with the same hardware?" 
"Dunno. Literally. I don't know which parts are critical and which ones aren't. I know BIGMAC has done a lot of work on it --" 
“You don’t want to do that,” Finch croaked. “You don’t know what you’re dealing with.” 
“Oh, really? Why don’t you tell me then, Mr. SSA Finch?” 
Sweat had broken out all across his face, exacerbating the grayness. He rolled his gaze desperately toward Tresting, but the PI’s expression was unreadable. “I...I can get you a meeting with my supervisor,” he offered finally. “Please.” 
I began to be more than a little unnerved by his reaction. The man was folding like a wet piece of cardboard. Who the hell was Dawna Polk? Christ, my head hurt. “Fine,” I said. “Let’s go.” 
“You’ll come with us,” added Tresting. “We’ll set up a meet in a neutral place.” 
“Yes, all right, okay.” Finch sounded so desperate that I wouldn’t have been surprised if he’d started offering up friends and family as human sacrifices to us. “We can do that.” 
The doorbell rang. 
We all jumped. 
Tresting went to the window and peeked around the closed blinds. He swore softly. “Cops.” 
I looked at Leena. “Can you go out and tell them nothing’s wrong?” 
“Only in the incipient stages. If you keep out of their way from now on, it will be of no consequence. If they cannot find you, they cannot do anything. Will you stay off the case this time?” 
But she had logical arguments. She had logical arguments! Was there a flaw? Could I find it? 
Rio, though not psychic, seemed to know what I was thinking. “Cas. It is much more difficult to apply logic to morality than you sometimes believe it to be.” 
“That’s stupid,” I muttered, but without any vitriol, and without any real belief behind the words. “You should be able to axiomitize everything. How else can you know right from wrong?” 
Rio was smiling again. “If you’re asking me personally, you know how. Sumasampalataya ako sa iyong tsarera.” 
“What does that mean?” He didn’t answer me, but I knew already. “God’s not my thing,” I said. 
“It doesn’t matter,” he countered. “Whether you believe or not, it remains that there are no mortal answers to these questions, and any claimant thereof must therefore lie.” He sounded so calm. So sure. 
Mrs. Enderby sat down at her desk and took out her check book. While she wrote, Lexy looked out of the window. 
“The amount due to you, including to-day, is thirty-two dollars,” said Mrs. Enderby. “Here is a check for it.” 
“Thank you,” said Lexy. 
“One minute more! Here, my child, is another check.” 
Lexy stared at it, amazed. It was for one hundred dollars. 
“But, Mrs. Enderby, I can’t—” 
“You will please take it and say nothing more. I give you this because I shall give you no reference. I shall answer no inquiries about you. You understand?” 
“But I don’t want—” 
Mrs. Enderby pushed back her chair, and rose. She crossed the room to Lexy, put both hands on the girl’s shoulders, and then did something far more astonishing than the gift of the check. She kissed Lexy on the forehead. 
“Good-by, and God bless you, little honest one!” she said, with a smile. “I think we shall not see each other again, but I shall sometimes remember you. Go, now, and bear in mind that you can always trust Miss Craigie. She is an imbecile, but she can be trusted. Adieu! ” 
Sean found himself tongue-tied. He heaved a deep breath and closed his eyes for a moment. He thought about why he was here: not the reason he'd given his thesis advisor, but the real goddamn reason. He wanted to understand -- his father, himself. He wanted to reverse-engineer his father's childhood. He looked at Ethan, slack as Grampa had been whenever they'd visited. An inkling glimmered. "Does Ethan scare you, Grampa?" 
Adele tsk ed and scowled. 
"Do I scare you, Mitch?" Grampa said, to Sean's father. 
"Yes," Sean's father said. 
"Yes," Grampa said. "Next question." 
"Do you think that switching off is a sign of weakness?" Sean said, sneaking a glance at his father, seeing his grandfather's features echoed in his father's face. 
"Yes," his father said. 
"Of course," his grandfather said. 
"Then why?" Sean said. 
"You know why," Ethan said, his eyes glittering. 
They all swiveled to look at him. "Because the alternative is the purest shit," Ethan said, standing up, starting to pace, almost shouting to make himself heard over the din of the ward. "Because if you have to ask, you'll never understand. Because dessert is better than dinner, because the cherry on top is the best part of the sundae. Because strength is over-rated." 
Adorable. 
Barf. 
I sat back and moved some of the textbooks around so I could get comfortable. “Sorry about the mess,” Bree said. “Just throw all that junk on the floor.” 
“How many classes are you going to miss tomorrow?” Nikko asked her. 
“Who gives a shit?” 
We drove on. I was bored and picked through the books. Most of them looked awful, Introduction to Boring Stuff You Didn’t Even Want to Take in the First Place, but one of the books had a Guy Fawkes mask on the cover. Hacker, Hoaxer, Whistleblower, Spy. 
On the back it claimed to be the definitive book about Anony- mous. I wasn’t sure there would ever be such a thing, since nobody could define what Anonymous was, which was kind of the point, but I tipped the book to catch the last of the light fading from the sky. 
“That’s for my sociology course. I haven’t read it yet,” Bree said. “Have you?” 
“No.” I put it down. 
“It’s the one assigned text I actually want to read. Help your- self.” 
“It’s too dark to read,” I said, which was almost true. Nikko shot me another one of those looks. Don’t be a jerk. I stacked the books on the floor of the car, pulled up my hood and curled up with my head on my backpack as if I was going to get some sleep even though I was too nervous, thinking about Wheeze, thinking about Wilson, thinking about how annoying it was to see Bree and Nikko together. In spite of that I eventually drifted off until the rhythm of the car changed, everything swung sideways, and I sat up. Bree was pulling off at an exit to get gas. 
“Thank you,” she repeated. 
“Don’t thank me yet,” Arthur said grimly. “This is going to be a scramble to set up, and a gamble to make ’em buy. And even if they do, pretty sure Dr. Zhang committed a big crime just by taking it. But the best thing we can do is keep our stories straight. You—” He pointed at Halliday. “You stick exactly to the truth, except for this conversation. You gave the proof to your friend, and you ain’t know nothing else. Same with you, actually,” he said, nodding to me. “You ain’t know nothing ’cept he was supposed to be picking it up. But we’ll try to keep you out of it. Okay, next thing, I’m gonna talk to Zhang. The Feds, they seen his house by now. We can say he brought the proof home to look, just for an hour, and someone came trying to steal it, and he’s the one burned it to keep it out of their hands. Then he skipped out ’cause he felt so guilty for stealing and losing it.” 
That was...actually a pretty decent story. It even made Zhang out as some sort of hero, albeit a guilty one. 
Rebecca flew down over the hill to get a last pail of spring water, and as she lifted the bucket from the crystal depths and looked out over the glowing beauty of the autumn landscape, she saw a company of surveyors with their instruments making calculations and laying lines that apparently crossed Sunnybrook at the favorite spot where Mirror Pool lay clear and placid, the yellow leaves on its surface no yellower than its sparkling sands. 
She caught her breath. "The time has come!" she thought. 
"'Grow old along with me, 
The best is yet to be.'" 
Will Melville had seen the surveyors too, and had heard in the Temperance post-office that morning the probable sum that Mrs. Randall would receive from the railway company. He was in good spirits at his own improved prospects, for his farm was so placed that its value could be only increased by the new road; he was also relieved in mind that his wife's family would no longer be in dire poverty directly at his doorstep, so to speak. John could now be hurried forward and forced into the position of head of the family several years sooner than had been anticipated, so Hannah's husband was obliged to exercise great self-control or he would have whistled while he was driving Rebecca to the Temperance station. He could not understand her sad face or the tears that rolled silently down her cheeks from time to time; for Hannah had always represented her aunt Miranda as an irascible, parsimonious old woman, who would be no loss to the world whenever she should elect to disappear from it. 
None of us much wanted to talk about revenge then. Instead, we talked about what we would do next. We had to go home. Our phones' batteries were dead and it had been years since this neighborhood had any payphones. We just needed to go home. I even thought about taking a taxi, but there wasn't enough money between us to make that possible. 
So we walked. On the corner, we pumped some quarters into a San Francisco Chronicle newspaper box and stopped to read the front section. It had been five days since the bombs went off, but it was still all over the front cover. 
Severe haircut woman had talked about "the bridge" blowing up, and I'd just assumed that she was talking about the Golden Gate bridge, but I was wrong. The terrorists had blown up the Bay bridge . 
"Why the hell would they blow up the Bay bridge?" I said. "The Golden Gate is the one on all the postcards." Even if you've never been to San Francisco, chances are you know what the Golden Gate looks like: it's that big orange suspension bridge that swoops dramatically from the old military base called the Presidio to Sausalito, where all the cutesy wine-country towns are with their scented candle shops and art galleries. It's picturesque as hell, and it's practically the symbol for the state of California. If you go to the Disneyland California Adventure park, there's a replica of it just past the gates, with a monorail running over it. 
"Not my thing," Lawrence said. "I know it's been getting worse out there --" 
The old timer barked a laugh. "Not your thing? It's probably time you got out into the wide world, son. You might ignore politics, but it won't ignore you ." 
"Is it dangerous?" 
"You going armed?" 
"I didn't know that was an option." 
"Always an option. But not a smart one. Any weapon you don't know how to use belongs to your enemy. Just be circumspect. Listen before you talk. Watch before you act. They're good people out there, but they're in a bad, bad situation." 
Lawrence shuffled his feet and shifted the straps of his bindle. "You're not making me very comfortable with all this, you know." 
"Why are you going out anyway?" 
"It's an Anomaly. My first. I've been waiting sixteen years for this. Someone poisoned the Securitat's data and left the campus. I'm going to go ask him why he did it." 
The old man blew the gate. The heavy door lurched open, revealing the vestibule. "Sounds like an Anomaly all right." He turned away and Lawrence forced himself to move toward the vestibule. The man held his hand out before he reached it. "You haven't been outside in sixteen years, it's going to be a surprise. Just remember, we're a noble species, all appearances to the contrary notwithstanding." 
“Not now!” said something inside her. “Don’t think about that now. Try not to think at all. Wait! Something is going to happen.” 
At the corner of the road leading to Mrs. Royce’s, she tapped on the window. Joe stopped the cab with a jerk, sprang down from his seat, and ran around to open the door. 
“What’s the matter, miss?” 
“Nothing,” said Lexy. “I’m sorry if I startled you, Joe. I thought I’d get out here and slip into the house quietly, without disturbing any one.” 
Joe grinned sheepishly. 
“I’ve got kind of jumpy since—that,” he said. “Howsomever, come on, miss!” 
“Oh, I don’t mean to trouble you!” 
“I’m going to see you safe inside that there house!” Joe declared firmly. 
Grateful for his genuine kindness, Lexy made no further protest. Side by side they walked down the lane, their footsteps noiseless in the thick dust, and Joe opened the garden gate without a sound. 
“I thought perhaps I could climb up that tree and get in at my window,” Lexy whispered. 
“I’ll do it for you,” said Joe, “and come down and let you in by the back door.” 
<Gargle> Ossum. Anybody who wants in, DM me for the deets. 
S leeping in the next morning wasn’t an option, as it turned out. I woke out of a solid sleep, the kind that makes you feel encased in concrete, the kind you really have to fight to drag your- self out of. Someone was banging on my door, and it had a weird echo effect, my brain telling me the banging had been going on for a while. 
“Zen, the police are here,” I heard my aunt say in a loud but totally calm voice. Like it was something that happened every day. 
Time to get up and go to school. Time for breakfast. Time to be interrogated by the cops. 
I sat up with my heart pounding. I have two laptops, one that’s for general use, the other reserved for more sensitive work. I raised up my mat and slipped a finger into the loose floorboard that had a handy knothole in it. When I lifted up the floorboard, 
it made just enough space for me to slip in the for-my-eyes-only laptop, where it nestled among some weird insulation that looked like dirty snow. The power cord followed, and I rearranged the insulation to cover it up. It all felt bizarre, as if was having a para- noid nightmare, and I froze for a moment, stuck in the strangeness of it all. 
"I should have just called. Would you like me to go?" 
"I knew it was you when the ping came through. I wouldn't have opened the door if I didn't want to see you. " 
Ray doesn't know what that means, not in this context. Just polite? Is this what good manners looks like? 
Beyond Emma's shoulder is a short hallway. At the end is a door, slightly ajar, which he assumes must be her bedroom. It's a space that suits her, this room. Cream colored walls, abstract pastel prints, pale rugs over a white carpet. The furniture is soft, delicately constructed. Where there are flowers, the vases are clear, 
eggshell thin crystal and the petals pale. Mostly lilies and orchids with their green stalks trimmed by a practiced hand. There's a simplicity here, an uncluttered grace that is appealing not because it is spartan, but because it conveys a sense of subtle vibrancy— an inchoate potential for definition. Against the far wall is a suede sofa candlesticked by a pair of standing lamps which cast pools of warm yellow light. 
I cling to him, bathed in sweat, falling into him, wanting him, but now . . . 
He's changing. . . . My God. No! He's . . . 
His face is becoming a jade mask with eyes that burn a fiery red, a spirit of evil. He's plunging something deep into me, metal, cold and cutting. Far inside, reaching, while my mind fights through the waves of pain that course down my lower body. I struggle back, but my arms just pass through empty air. Stop. The eyes, the hard metal . . . Time turns fluid, minutes are hours, lost, and I don't know . . . 
Finally-—it could be years later—he growls one last time and the room begins fading to darkness. Then a blessed numbness washes over me. He's gone. . . . 
And I dream I am dead. 
Sometime, probably hours later, I sensed my conscious­ness gradually returning. Around me the room was still dark and, remembering the "dream," I came fully awake with a start, my heart pounding. What had . . . it done to me? I was shivering, with a piercing, pointed ache in my groin. I needed air. 
“ Decent?” I burst out. “Decent! She has a proof that could—” I clamped down on the words. 
“Revolutionize mankind, I know,” said Arthur. “What are you gonna do? Twist her arm until she shares it with you?” 
“You don’t get it!” I cried. “You say ‘revolutionize’ like you understand, but you aren’t getting this. This is—it’s bigger than splitting the atom, or the combustion engine, or—or the invention of electricity, or whatever other technological revolution you’re thinking of. You don’t understand what this proof would mean!” 
“Then maybe Martinez is right,” said Arthur, “keeping it to herself. Maybe that’s the right call here.” 
“That’s never the right call!” 
Checker pulled open the door to the Hole and came out. “Cas. Hey.” 
“You’re going along with this?” I cried. “You? Mr. ‘Knowing is Always Better Than Not Knowing?’ Did he tell you what we found?” 
“Cas—” 
“This is bigger than you, than me, than all of us!” I ignored the guilty twinge acknowledging that wasn’t the reason I wanted it, and stabbed a finger at Checker. “ You should understand that!” 
"Just so he could destroy it now, sure. Holcomb never lets a man wreck himself until he's wrung the last bit of use out of him that he can. This just isn't right, Rich. No, it's more than that— it's impossible. Isn't it?" 
Becker doesn't say anything, probably because he doesn't know what to say. He doesn't know enough to contribute or how to poke Ray effectively until he gives up his secrets like a mausoleum caught in a temblor. 
Ray sighs, deep and melancholy, then offers, "Are you a fan of coincidence, Becker? Of synchronicity?" 
The Chief only shakes his head, without comment. 
"Neither am I. The problem is, I'm not sure what that means in this case." Which is exactly what Holcomb would have recognized when Becker contacted the EED about what was going on below decks. The devil was in the details, so it was said, and Jack Holcomb was a man who kept his eye out for strange synchronicities. 
He'd also had plenty of time to sit back and wait for Ba'dai and Ray to cross paths again, just as it had been promised. Plenty of time, and even more reasons. 
Of course, Rio still wanted me off the case. Ordinarily someone else’s objections wouldn’t have stopped me, but I had a sneaking thread of suspicion that he was right, that dealing with Pithica truly was out of my league. I’d never felt that way before, and I didn’t like it. 
Presumably, Rio was still going after Dawna himself, but he wasn’t telling us about it. Arthur, meanwhile, was mired in some sort of guilty cognitive dissonance between what Dawna had convinced him of at first and what she had inherently convinced him of later by trying to have me killed in front of him, and seemed perfectly content to hover over me as I recovered. He spent a lot of time on his phone, too, though I never heard him reach anyone. 
As for me, I decided to defer my decision on what to do about Pithica. If I could fool my brain for a while longer into thinking I was still working, that was fine by me. I still couldn’t figure out if I wanted to charge after Dawna Polk with everything I had or run as far away as possible and hope she never found me. Not to mention that some part of me still thought her logic might be right and Pithica might be a pinnacle of moral rectitude and I should do everything I could to help them. It was confusing. And I got a headache whenever I tried to think about it seriously. 
“Yeah? Well, I’m not your responsibility.” 
She fixed me with a stern glare. I thought I was about to get chewed out for backtalk, but instead her voice was suddenly gen- tle. “The law works slowly. You want to rescue your brother right now. I get that. You want him to know that you’ll risk everything for him, because you’re family and it matters. But if you can be a little patient, you don’t have to take the risk. I’m working with some very bright, committed young lawyers who care about this case. It’s going to be an uphill battle, but we’ll do our best for your brother and his friends. That’s a promise.” 
“Okay.” It came out sounding grumpy because I didn’t want her to know that something about the way her voice had changed from sharp to kind had tripped me up and I was fighting tears. 
“Jason Bristol?” she said again, checking. I nodded. 
“Please stay out of trouble, but if you can’t . . . Luisa?” 
She called over to the table where the brilliant young lawyers were hard at work checking Instragram and scrolling through Twitter. One of them came over. “Could you please bring my purse?” 
In her heart Lexy agreed with him. She had no curiosity left, and scarcely any interest. As he had said, it was finished. She wanted to rest, not to speak, not to think, not to remember; but it couldn’t be so. They would both have to tell what they had seen, to answer questions. It wasn’t enough that two people lay dead in that house of horror. All the world, which knew and cared nothing about them, must have a full explanation. 
“I suppose we couldn’t wait till morning?” she suggested. 
He took her hand and drew it through his arm. 
“You’re worn out,” he told her. “It’s altogether wrong. There’s no reason why you should be troubled any more, Lexy. Slip into the house quietly, and get to bed and to sleep. Nobody need know that you went there.” 
“No!” she said. “We’ll see it through together.” 
The thought of Charles Houseman came to her, but she disowned it with a listless sort of resentment. She felt, somehow, that he had failed her. He had not been there when she needed him. He had not taken his part in this ghastly and unforgettable sight. 
“Hello, sir,” he said. It sounded like a squeak to him. 
“You can just stay there, Detective. Someone will be along in a moment to get you. We have your daughter.” 
The robot that wrenched off the door of his car was black and non-reflective, headless and eight-armed. It grabbed him without ceremony and dragged him from the car without heed for his shout of pain. “Put me down!” he said, hoping that this robot that so blithely ignored the first law would still obey the second. No such luck. 
It cocooned him in four of its arms and set off cross-country, dancing off the roofs of houses, hopping invisibly from lamp-post to lamp-post, above the oblivious heads of the crowds below. The icy wind howled in Arturo’s bare ears, froze the tip of his nose and numbed his fingers. They rocketed downtown so fast that they were there in ten minutes, bounding along the lakeshore toward the Social Harmony center out on Cherry Beach. People who paid a visit to the Social Harmony center never talked about what they found there. 
"No, thank you, I prefer to have Rebecca all to myself," said Miss Maxwell. 
"I can understand that," replied Adam absent-mindedly; "I mean, of course, that one child is less trouble than two. There she is now." 
Here Rebecca appeared in sight, walking down the quiet street with a lad of sixteen. They were in animated conversation, and were apparently reading something aloud to each other, for the black head and the curly brown one were both bent over a sheet of letter paper. Rebecca kept glancing up at her companion, her eyes sparkling with appreciation. 
"Miss Maxwell," said Adam, "I am a trustee of this institution, but upon my word I don't believe in coeducation!" 
"I have my own occasional hours of doubt," she answered, "but surely its disadvantages are reduced to a minimum with—children! That is a very impressive sight which you are privileged to witness, Mr. Ladd. The folk in Cambridge often gloated on the spectacle of Longfellow and Lowell arm in arm. The little school world of Wareham palpitates with excitement when it sees the senior and the junior editors of The Pilot walking together!" 
Like none of that. It was more. It was something I'd never felt before. I wanted to eat her whole, devour her. 
Up until now, she'd been the sexual one in our relationship. I'd let her set and control the pace. It was amazingly erotic to have her grab me and take off my shirt, drag my face to hers. 
But tonight I couldn't hold back. I wouldn't hold back. 
The door clicked shut and I reached for the hem of her t-shirt and yanked, barely giving her time to lift her arms as I pulled it over her head. I tore my own shirt over my head, listening to the cotton crackle as the stitches came loose. 
Her eyes were shining, her mouth open, her breathing fast and shallow. Mine was too, my breath and my heart and my blood all roaring in my ears. 
I took off the rest of our clothes with equal zest, throwing them into the piles of dirty and clean laundry on the floor. There were books and papers all over the bed and I swept them aside. We landed on the unmade bedclothes a second later, arms around one another, squeezing like we would pull ourselves right through one another. She moaned into my mouth and I made the sound back, and I felt her voice buzz in my vocal chords, a feeling more intimate than anything I'd ever felt before. 
Gino arrives with their food. He makes a big show of distributing plates and rhapsodizing over the perfection of the preparation, the presentation, the complexity of the culinary issues. All the sprawling and glorious history of Italy from trilobite dawn to this morning's news has conspired to bring them this moment, these dishes, a palate- shattering explosion of delight. 
But Ray leaves his food untouched. 
"What is it about you, Emma?" 
She stops, fork in hand, says matter-of-factly: "I've told you. I'm perfect. Perfect for you, at least."  "You realize that you know next to nothing about me. " And what you think you know is mostly lies too complex to straighten out without hurting you. 
"I realize that you think I know nothing about you. I also realize that you're wrong, which is a convenient balance of power for my taste." 
Ray holds his breath, lets it go slowly. "I'm wrong? How can that be, when I'm pretty sure I remember most of the things I have told you." 
Barring Freddy pulling some corporate strings and hacking into the EED's classified personnel files, there's no way she can know anything else. Even then, he couldn't be certain that an accurate file with his name attached to it even exists. Well, Holcomb suggested one might exist, and Becker had seen a copy of something like his file, but he knows better than to believe anything those sources might have to say about him. 
“The police aren’t after me anymore,” I said. “Thanks for not killing that guy.” 
He lifted one shoulder fractionally. When I didn’t say anything else, he asked, “Is that all?” 
“No.” I’d been doing a lot of thinking since our final battle with Dawna. The memories of her attack still shifted and blurred, fuzzier with each passing day, the pieces I was able to jigsaw together making less and less sense. And every frustrating contradiction led me not to Pithica, not to Dawna—but to Rio. 
Rio was keeping something from me. 
And I was going to find out what. I just didn’t know how to ask him. 
“Are you going to keep your deal with Dawna?” I asked finally. 
“Yes,” he said. 
“She neutralized us, you know.” Arthur and I had tested it late one night, and neither of us would be looking into Pithica ever again. We couldn’t. We couldn’t even try. “She told us not to come after them again, and we can’t. I doubt they’re even keeping an eye on me anymore. They know I’m not a threat to them.” I crossed my arms, hugging my jacket to me against the underground chill. “Could you talk me out of it? Destroy their influence?” He’d done it before, after all. 
The two cops exchanged glances. The woman’s look was say- ing “I told you so.” His was saying “ah, crap, you were right. I hate it when you’re right.” 
“Listen, little lady, this is a terrorism investigation,” Bobble- head said, the smile gone, his face starting to get red, a finger poked in my face like a toy gun. “Your brother is in serious trou- ble.” 
So is Wheeze, I thought, my stomach churning. Though there was something to be said for barfing all over his shoes, I didn’t want him to think I was intimidated. 
“We know,” Monica said, giving him a stony look, the kind she might give to a kid who was cruising for an F in one of her classes. 
“We’re also aware of the constitutional rights that you took an oath to uphold.” 
“You’ll be hearing from us.” The woman smacked her part- ner’s arm with the back of her hand and give him a “let’s go” jerk of her head. He followed his partner down the stairs, both of them stomping, as if the more noise you make, the more power you have. 
“That was scary.” Monica said softly after the door closed behind them. She held out her hands and looked at them. Her fin- gers were shaking really hard. 
"Yeah, yo, this is just the beginning, you know? I mean, like, we're just getting started. Let them hire a billion pigs and put a checkpoint on every corner. We'll jam them all! And like, all this crap about terrorists? We're not terrorists! Give me a break, I mean, really! We're jamming up the system because we hate the Homeland Security, and because we love our city. Terrorists? I can't even spell jihad. Peace out." 
He sounded like an idiot. Not just the incoherent words, but also his gloating tone. He sounded like a kid who was indecently proud of himself. He was a kid who was indecently proud of himself. 
The Xnet flamed out over this. Lots of people thought he was an idiot for calling in, while others thought he was a hero. I worried that there was probably a camera aimed at the payphone he'd used. Or an arphid reader that might have sniffed his Fast Pass. I hoped he'd had the smarts to wipe his fingerprints off the quarter, keep his hood up, and leave all his arphids at home. But I doubted it. I wondered if he'd get a knock on the door sometime soon. 
Poor guy. 
Rio appeared in the room. 
He materialized so suddenly and quietly that I could have sworn Dawna started slightly. She recovered in less than a breath, however. “I’m glad to see you are being wise,” she said, her voice cool again. “If you had tried to kill me, Ms. Russell would be dead.” 
Rio lifted one shoulder in a miniscule half-shrug, as if to say, Maybe, maybe not. His hands were empty and held out to his sides. 
Dawna nodded, her lips curving upward in a slight smile. “Yes, perhaps you would have been skilled enough to rescue her and still accomplish your assassination. It seems I was correct in thinking you would not risk it.” 
“Quite a chance to take,” I pointed out to Dawna. I couldn’t help but feel a squeezing disappointment; some part of me had still hoped Rio might pull a rabbit out of a hat and save us all. 
“Not terribly,” said Dawna. She turned away from Arthur and me, ignoring us and addressing Rio. “You really are predictable in your own way. Did you honestly think this would work?” 
She had far too much faith in people. Zhang was out for himself, just like everyone else. Halliday was right about one thing: I’d been a fool to let us trust him. 
I staggered up and looked for my boots. My mouth felt like it was filled with moss. Rotting moss. “When did this all go down? How long ago did they find out?” 
“It’s only been a few minutes—I called as soon as I could get away. I think they’re sending people now.” 
Geography splayed out in my brain. If Zhang was at his office, the NSA had him surrounded already. But my current location was only minutes from his home address—and considering Los Angeles congestion, that gave me a massive advantage. 
Of course, if he was smart he wouldn’t be in either place, but his home might give us evidence of what he was really up to. 
“Call Arthur,” I said. “Tell him I’m on the way to Zhang’s house.” Agents were probably listening in on this call, but we’d have to come up with a story for them anyway. Right now I just wanted to get to Zhang first. 
The switchgirl turned, but the next person in the chain, a customer service rep, had his phone headset in and was having a hushed support call -- it was faked, just part of the script, but he gave a good impression of helping someone tech a network problem at a distance, tracking a nonexistent support-script across his HUD and prodding at the air with a dataglove. 
"Aha," Lee-Daniel said, "here's where it gets tricky. What if one of the radios between us is too busy to relay a message? We've got two options. We can wait -- which we'll do, if we have to, but it adds latency to the message -- or we can find an alternate path." 
The switchgirl -- a network engineer he'd hired himself from a backwater DeVry at a job-fair in Tulsa, who ran a little to fat but was still broad-shouldered from her time on the rowing machine she shlepped compulsively from gig to gig, facts that Lee-Daniel could recall with ease even if he couldn't remember her name -- turned back and passed the word onto a surveyor who was standing a little ways out of the way, who relayed it to Joey Riel, who was by the doorway, who stuck his head into the corridor. 
“Why not.” It wasn’t like I had anything better to do. 
Arthur’s hand tightened on the edge of the bar. “Before you say yes. Happens I need more than just an extra gun.” 
“I said I’d play it your way, okay? No C-4, roger.” I mock-saluted him. 
“Ain’t what I meant. Russell...we ain’t never really talked about this, but...” He’d gone still and tense. “This case, client’s a friend of mine. Real important to me. It’s about her work, and...my friend, she’s a professor.” He wet his lips. “Math professor.” 
“No.” The refusal slipped out through stiff lips before I realized I had heard him, and I slid off my stool and stumbled toward the door. The room was whirling a little. I kind of hoped I was just drunker than I thought, but I could do the damn differential equation; I knew I wasn’t. 
“Russell, wait.” I felt Arthur catch my arm as my foot missed the ground. “Hey. You okay?” 
“Get off.” I tried to shoulder his hand away; the ceiling slipped sideways again. 
“You ain’t have to take this job,” Arthur said from somewhere up and to my right. “Forget it. Ain’t no problem.” 
In theory Lexy admitted that this was true, but it made no difference. If she didn’t feel inclined to talk, she didn’t talk. It was so this afternoon. She merely answered when she was spoken to—which was not often, for Dr. Quelton was asking his brother-in-law questions about India, and Mrs. Quelton seemed no more desirous to talk than Lexy was. What is more, Lexy felt certain that the doctor’s wife was not listening to the talk between the two men, but, like herself, was thinking her own thoughts. 
The parlor maid wheeled the tea cart in, and Mrs. Quelton roused herself to pour the tea and to make polite inquiries, in her plaintive tone, as to what her guests wanted in the way of cream and sugar. The maid vanished again, and Dr. Quelton passed about the cups and plates. 
“It’s China tea,” he observed. “I import it myself. It has quite a distinctive flavor, I think.” 
Captain Grey praised it, and Lexy herself found it very agreeable. She sipped it, staring into the fire, glad to be let alone. Behind her she could hear Captain Grey talking about the Ceylon tea plantations. His voice sounded so pathetic! 
“Screen printing. Making soup.” 
“Reading incredibly long books about the history of debt,” I added. 
“Debt?” 
“It’s more interesting than it sounds,” Wheeze said. 
“Well, I got a lot of old books and no time to read them. If you record them for me, I can listen while I do the chores.” 
“Deal.” He held out a hand and she slapped her palm into it, 
sealing the arrangement with a shake that made him wince. “You guys? Thanks,” he added, looking at Nikko and Bree, then at me. 
We looked at each other for a minute. 
“Stay safe,” I said, feeling a falling sensation inside, as sudden and shocking as plunging deep into a cold pool. I suddenly real- ized how much I would miss messing around with Wheeze. Given that he was wanted by the FBI, just like my brother, and probably faced years and years of prison if they caught him, I wasn’t sure if we’d ever hang out together again. It had been such a relief to find him that I‘d forgotten how much trouble he still faced. 
One thought formed and rose through that icy feeling like a bub- ble that hit the surface and popped. “Wait, is it okay if I install another program on your machine?” I asked Jane Shandy. 
That out of the way, I looked around the room. It was a disaster, but I quickly began cramming things into the small folding backpack I always took on trips. Then I rang the kitchen and told them to make... ) to go, along with a large bottle of distilled water. 
Let him wait. I wrote out a long note to Steve, on the chance he might come looking for me. Then with deliberate slowness, I wandered out to where Alan's Jeep was parked and tossed my backpack behind the seat. 
"First things first." I climbed in and handed him the ad­dress of Ninos del Mundo I'd copied onto some hotel sta­tionery. "This is where we've got to go." 
He stared at it a moment, puzzling, and then seemed to figure out where it was. 
"Upscale part of this beautiful oasis." He shifted into gear. "But it's more or less on the way." He glanced up nervously at the sky. "We just don't have all day." 
Off we headed toward the suburbs, through a ganglia of downtown streets laced with pizza joints and frying-meat vendors, till we eventually ended up on a tree-lined avenue that looked as genteel as Oyster Bay. When we got to the address, I told him to park across the way, and just sat a moment staring. 
"Pleased to meet you, Adele," Grampa said, and shook her hand. 
"Likewise," she said. "Do you know my Ethan? I'm worried that he doesn't seem to have any friends here." 
"I haven't met him," Grampa said. 
"Well, would you do an old lady a big favor? Go and visit him. Your grandson tells me you're smart -- Ethan is as smart as a whip. You two should have lots to talk about." 
"I will," Grampa said. 
"I'm sure you two will get on very well. It was a pleasure to meet you. Excuse me, I'm sure Ethan's wondering where I am." 
Sean waited until she was out of earshot, then said, "Her son's a fucking vegetable. You're about eighty percent of the way there. You're spending so much time switched off, you might as well be dead." 
"What do you know about it?" Grampa said, fidgeting. 
"I know plenty," Sean said. "Plenty! You spent less than fifteen percent of the time switched off until you hit college. Then you switched off for months at a time. You used it for a study aid! I pulled your logfiles, when I was at Dad's -- he's had them ever since you were declared non compos . You're a junkie, Grampa. You don't have the willpower to kick your habit, and it makes my Dad nuts. I never knew you, so it just makes me curious. Let's talk about the first time you remember switching off." 
She gripped her mother’s sidearm tighter and watched the wizard emerge. The documentarians. The wizard’s eyes glittered. 
“It’s all gone,” he said. “You won’t get a scrap of it. What a goddamned waste. We were on your side, you know.” 
“You were very well-fed,” the general said. 
One of the documentarians sobbed. 
“What a pointless goddamned waste. Spiteful, stupid, boneheaded—” The wizard broke off, looking at Valentine. “Her hearing aids.” 
Valentine smiled. “Yes,” she said. “My hearing aids. I’m recording you now. Do you have any words you’d like to say for the microphone?” 
The wizard’s jaw dropped to his chest and his whole body sort of crumpled, slumping in the grasp of the soldier who held him. 
“You little—” 
Valentine put a sarcastic finger to her lips and then made a show of covering Trover’s ears. She saw Ana smile involuntarily before the woman turned away. 
Three days after they arrested the wizard, the sky-cars lifted off again. They roared over the enemy lines, dropping intelligent motes that zeroed in on enemy soldiers and burrowed up their nostrils and in their ears and in the corners of their eyes and rattled in their skulls until their brains were paste and goo. 
It takes him a minute, but Ray gets it. Cable doesn't want Kilgore and Rodriguez left to float around the deck most of the day waiting for Ray to come up with something for them to do. It would look too much like they were slacking off to the other soldiers in the barracks, like they were getting special treatment. It was bad for morale. 
"Yes," Ray says quickly. "Certainly. I'll find somewhere to stack them, then get them back to you as soon as possible." 
Cable gives him an amiable nod. "I appreciate your courtesy, Ray." 
"And I appreciate the fact that you haven't pointed out to me yet that I'm a dumbass, Captain. I really am sorry if this is an inconvenience for you. " 
Grinning wide, showing teeth. "Believe me, you have no idea how grateful I am for the inconvenience. But you will. By tomorrow this time, you'll be begging me to take them back." 
"By the time it's all over, I fully expect that they'll be the ones doing the begging." 
Ray doesn't elaborate and Cable has the good graces not to ask what he means. The burly captain strides past him and out into the gangway, beckoning Ray to follow. "Your boys are in the barracks, should be stowing their gear for the move. God knows they've had all morning to get it done. Their mates were assigned to pull head polish duty-cleaning the latrine— this morning, so I suspect Kilgore and Rodriguez are getting a might nervous about now. They definitely do not want to be caught lounging when the rest of the barracks troops in." 
"Yeah," she said. "I was going to clean out my bank account on the way home at an ATM. I've got maybe five hundred saved up." 
"What am I going to spend it on?" she said. "Ever since the Xnet, I haven't had to even pay any service charges." 
"I think I've got three hundred or so." 
"Well, there you go. Grab it on the way to Civic Center in the morning." 
I had a big book-bag I used when I was hauling lots of gear around town. It was less conspicuous than my camping pack. Ange went through my piles mercilessly and culled them down to her favorites. 
Once it was packed and under my bed, we both sat down. 
"We're going to have to get up really early tomorrow," she said. 
"Yeah, big day." 
The plan was to get messages out with a bunch of fake VampMob locations tomorrow, sending people out to secluded spots within a few minutes' walk of Civic Center. We'd cut out a spray-paint stencil that just said VAMPMOB CIVIC CENTER -> -> that we would spray-paint at those spots around 5AM. That would keep the DHS from locking down the Civic Center before we got there. I had the mailbot ready to send out the messages at 7AM -- I'd just leave my Xbox running when I went out. 
She rolled her eyes again. 
"Right," he said. "Right. Well, sorry I couldn't be more help." The little bell over the door jingled merrily as she left. 
"Back again?" 
She had her school bag in her hands, zip opened, bag gaping. He was reminded of all those terrible little signs that said "No more than two school kids in the shop at any one time." Fancy that -- imagine if it said "No more than two women in the shop" or "No more than two Asians in the shop" -- kids were the last group you could treat like second class citizens without being called a bigot. 
"Where do you get your copies of The Book?" she said. The Book, with the capital letters -- the one book with a thousand covers, a million tables of contents, each one not so much published as made, as curated. 
"There's a man," he said. "Art student at UCL. He's got a little stall at the weekend in the parking structure where Borough Market used to be." 
"So you just buy them from some bloke? Does he make them?" 
"I suppose so -- he gives me that impression, anyway." He liked her shrewd, unembarrassed, direct questioning. Not a single scruple or a hint that she was embarrassed to be interrogating him about the intimate details of his trade. 
“And you refused? That seems unlikely.” The Lancer evaluated me like a bird of prey considering the rodent that will be its next meal. 
“They weren’t offering enough,” I said recklessly. I probably should’ve thought through how I wanted to play this. 
The Lancer raised bushy eyebrows. “I see.” Clack, clack, clack. “How do you like this offer: you help us, we won’t kill you.” 
Like I believed that. He’d want to make sure he was the only one with the proof. Killing Halliday and me once we helped him understand and apply it would be a no-brainer. 
It was on my tongue to agree—to play along, let him think he had me—when I remembered how another woman had bluffed when we’d been up against a villain with a supervolcano. She’d pushed him, not given in too easily, and it had made him buy our act. “Not good enough,” I said. “Pay me.” 
“What did you say?” 
“Halliday paid me to help. I don’t do this for my health, you know. I do it for the money.” The proclamation almost sounded true, probably because this sort of story was right in my comfort zone. 
It carried her through weary months of nursing—nursing of other soldiers for Tom's dear sake; it sent her home a better woman; and though she had never left Riverboro in all the years that lay between, and had grown into the counterfeit presentment of her sister and of all other thin, spare, New England spinsters, it was something of a counterfeit, and underneath was still the faint echo of that wild heart-beat of her girlhood. Having learned the trick of beating and loving and suffering, the poor faithful heart persisted, although it lived on memories and carried on its sentimental operations mostly in secret. 
"You're soft, Jane," said Miranda once; "you allers was soft, and you allers will be. If 't wa'n't for me keeping you stiffened up, I b'lieve you'd leak out o' the house into the dooryard." 
It was already past the appointed hour for Mr. Cobb and his coach to be lumbering down the street. 
"The stage ought to be here," said Miranda, glancing nervously at the tall clock for the twentieth time. "I guess everything 's done. I've tacked up two thick towels back of her washstand and put a mat under her slop-jar; but children are awful hard on furniture. I expect we sha'n't know this house a year from now." 
Having been dismissed, they duck out into the hall, where they pass the children groaning their way off to bed, herded by tutors. John Robert and two or three of the others wave at Ray, wish him goodnight. None of them speak to Emma. 
At the door, he says, "You weren't kidding, were you? About the kids." 
"I told you. I never know what to do with them. And I think they're afraid of me. " 
"Or you're afraid of them." 
"Did you know that the younger ones, their noses run all the time."  "It's a good thing you're cute when you panic, otherwise they would more than likely eat you alive. They're barbarians." 
He's trying to make her laugh, but she isn't very interested. She is quite serious about her lack of domestic skill. 
"I'm just teasing you," he says. "As long as you can cook, I don't care what you think about children." 
"I can't cook, Ray." 
"Yikes. It's a good thing you're independently wealthy, then. You'd have a hard time finding a husband with that resume." He winks; she smiles. She's more fun to play with than a bunch of uber-kids anyway, even if she doesn't like Captain Shadow. "Maybe you can run the mining operation and Frederick can run the Trust. That way each of you get a piece of the family business." 
Once on the street, my legs went limp and I sat down hard on the curb. Martinez hadn’t found a factoring proof. She’d found something so much more explosive, so much more deadly. 
She’d proven the Holy Grail of mathematics. The impossible dream. She’d solved the P versus NP problem, and she’d proven them equal. 
I didn’t have enough of her notes to see how she’d done it. But there was enough context around the lemmas, enough explanation in her cramped handwriting, to know something of what she’d been doing. She’d been building a polynomial-time algorithm for 3-SAT. 
She’d been right: this would break the world. Rend it in two and shatter humanity in the upheaval. Civilization would never be the same...if it even survived. 
I sat on the curb for a long time. Everything around me—the cool evening air, the slight breeze, the deepening twilight, and the math, especially the math—felt different. It wasn’t, of course—except it was, because this so fundamentally changed our understanding of the universe that nothing ever could be the same. 
I squinted at him. These sorts of revelations were supposed to make you happy or angry or upset or disconcerted or...or something, but I didn’t feel anything like that. It didn’t matter whether Checker wanted to jump into bed with me, or whatever he might want. Because nothing mattered. 
“I didn’t mean to make you feel uncomfortable,” Checker said earnestly. “It’s not like I want to—well, anything. I just meant, you know, in the semi-objective sense of women I would find attractive, being that I’m me, I mean...you’re on the list. It’s, uh, it’s not like I want anything from you.” 
“I’m not uncomfortable,” I said. “I was just confused.” 
“About what?” 
“You flirt with everyone,” I pointed out mechanically. “You don’t do it with me.” 
His face wrinkled in surprise. “Well, I did, when we first met, but you never flirted back. I try not to be a creeper.” 
“Oh,” I said. 
“Cas?” He touched my arm. I’d never taken note before of how tactile Checker was. The relief-mixed-with-strangeness flooded back, an almost dangerous feeling. Daring me. 
