“I wonder who on earth that was on the telephone,” Lexy reflected. “It was queer—just on the only night of her life when she’d ever gone out on her own. And he sounded so terribly upset! It was queer. Perhaps—” 
She was aware of a fast-growing oppression. The influence of Caroline’s room was beginning to tell upon her. Caroline didn’t understand about larks. She wasn’t that sort of girl. Quiet, shy, and patient, she had never shown any trace of resentment against her restricted life, or any desire for the good times that other girls of her age enjoyed. The more Lexy thought about it, the more clearly she realized the strangeness of all this, and the more uneasy she became. ...  mantelpiece struck one, it came as a shock. Lexy sprang to her feet and looked about the room, filled with unreasoning fear. One o’clock, and Caroline hadn’t come back! Suppose—suppose she never came back? 
Lexy dismissed that idea with healthy scorn. Things like that didn’t happen; and yet—what was it that gave to the pink and white lamplit room such an air of being deserted? 
He swallowed. “The robot—” 
“That’s not Mom. She’s got a few of those, they can change their faces when they need to. Configurable matter. Mom has been here, mostly, and at the CAFTA embassy. I only met her for the first time two weeks ago, but she’s nice, Dad. I don’t want you to go all copper on her, OK? She’s my mom, OK?” 
He took her hand in his and patted it, then climbed to his feet again and headed for the door. The knob turned easily and he opened it a crack. 
There was a robot behind the door, humanoid and faceless. “Hello,” it said. “My name is Benny. I’m a Eurasian robot, and I am much stronger and faster than you, and I don’t obey the three laws. I’m also much smarter than you. I am pleased to host you here.” 
“Hi, Benny,” he said. The human name tasted wrong on his tongue. “Nice to meet you.” He closed the door. 
His ex-wife left him two months after Ada was born. The divorce had been uncontested, though he’d dutifully posted a humiliating notice in the papers about it so that it would be completely legal. The court awarded him full custody and control of the marital assets, and then a tribunal tried her in absentia for treason and found her guilty, sentencing her to death. 
Then ferret brought the Group’s attention back to my brother in a way that caught me by surprise. 
<ferret> Hey, I'm heading to Minneapolis for a few days. How about a meet-up? 
<Kadabra> When will you be there, ferret? 
<ferret> I was scheduled on a Sunday flight, 
but I can come sooner. 
<Kadabra> I can be there. 
<inky> I wish - too far from Melbourne. 
<gargle> Count me in. 
<DoDec> Are you going to that cyberlaw thing? 
<ferret> Yep. Speaking on Tuesday. 
<callmecheese> I'm signed up! Lemme see if I can change my tickets. 
<Kadabra> There's a great brewpub near the conference site. Dinner on Tuesday? 
<ferret> Wait wait wait, what about Shad's brother? 
<Falstaff> Yep, we need to figure that shit out . 
<Gargle> Shad, does a meet-up sound good? 
I can fix us up with a safe place to get together . 
I was frozen for a minute, unsure how to respond. 
The day was catching up with me. It was nearly four in the morning, and my brain was feeling fuzzy. The Group had meet- ups regularly. Someone would say “hey, I’m going to be in Bangkok next week, anybody want to get together?” and people would figure out where to meet and hang out for a while. Or there’d be a hackathon or an SF fan convention or a gaming event - something that a handful of members might be going to and they’d work out a plan to meet somewhere. 
“Stay there, please,” he told Lexy. “You have the lantern. I shan’t be a minute.” 
But as soon as he had reached the foot of the ladder, Lexy climbed down after him; and just at the same moment, they saw— They were standing in a tiny room with roughly mortared walls. A powerful electric torch stood on end in one corner, and at their feet lay the body of a man, face downward across a wooden chest. It was Dr. Quelton. 
With a violent effort Captain Grey lifted the doctor’s heavy shoulder, while Lexy covered her eyes. She knew that he was dead. No living thing could lie so. 
Her head swam, her knees gave way, and she tottered back against the wall, half fainting, when the captain’s voice rang out, with a note of agony and despair that she never forgot. 
“My God! My God!” he wailed. “Oh, Muriel!” 
She opened her eyes. For a moment she was too giddy to see. Then, as her vision cleared, she saw him on his knees beside the chest. 
When she looked back upon the experiences of that dreadful night, it seemed to Lexy that both she and her companion displayed almost incredible endurance. Since morning they had lived through a very lifetime of emotion, to end now in this tragedy more horrible than anything they could have feared. 
I didn't believe it for a second. There's no way a judge would say that all this stuff constituted any kind of real crime. It was free speech, it was technological tinkering. It wasn't a crime. 
But who said that these people would ever put me in front of a judge. 
"We know where you live, we know who your friends are. We know how you operate and how you think." 
It dawned on me then. They were about to let me go. The room seemed to brighten. I heard myself breathing, short little breaths. 
"We just want to know one thing: what was the delivery mechanism for the bombs on the bridge?" 
I stopped breathing. The room darkened again. 
"What?" 
"There were ten charges on the bridge, all along its length. They weren't in car-trunks. They'd been placed there. Who placed them there, and how did they get there?" 
"What?" I said it again. 
"This is your last chance, Marcus," she said. She looked sad. "You were doing so well until now. Tell us this and you can go home. You can get a lawyer and defend yourself in a court of law. There are doubtless extenuating circumstances that you can use to explain your actions. Just tell us this thing, and you're gone." 
"The great and only Max is more stiff and standoffish than ever this year," said Huldah. "I've simply given up trying to please her, for there's no justice in her; she is good to her favorites, but she doesn't pay the least attention to anybody else, except to make sarcastic speeches about things that are none of her business. I wanted to tell her yesterday it was her place to teach me Latin, not manners." 
"I wish you wouldn't talk against Miss Maxwell to me," said Rebecca hotly. "You know how I feel." 
"I know; but I can't understand how you can abide her." 
"I not only abide, I love her!" exclaimed Rebecca. "I wouldn't let the sun shine too hot on her, or the wind blow too cold. I'd like to put a marble platform in her class-room and have her sit in a velvet chair behind a golden table!" 
"Well, don't have a fit!—because she can sit where she likes for all of me; I've got something better to think of," and Huldah tossed her head. 
"Isn't this your study hour?" asked Emma Jane, to stop possible discussion. 
This somewhat flagrant misnomer might be considered an obscene breach of language usage if one neglected to take into account two critical facts: first, that the ship's schematics actually labeled it as Gamma Level, since it happened to fit comfortably between Beta Level and Delta Level; and second, that Gamma Level was the primary repository of paying passengers— folks who either should not be expected to carry a working knowledge of the Greek alphabet in their neural networks, or who considered such a sterile reference system to be vaguely chilling and gauche and hopelessly neo-militaristic. 
Even in the quasi-federal deep space shipping business, it was important to maintain the illusion that the customer was always right. 
No garden, but there was food— from the basic federal protein paste dispenser available to all passengers and crew at no cost, to the private vendors who had leased ship space and paid a tonnage fee for their business stock of supplies. Mr. Wu's Taste of the Orient. Li Nan's Old American Cuisine. The Poultry Hut. An endless succession of franchise burger stands and interstate off -ramp staples. Most of these were permanent berths, as much a part of the Paraclete ecosystem as the engineers, officers, soldiers and crew. There were worse business propositions in the galaxy than having six or seven thousand guaranteed customers for six solid months. Check that: six or seven thousand reasonably wealthy customers, given that they could afford passage on a ship of Paraclete's class in the first place. 
“Captain of a ship?” asked Lexy, with interest. She thought she would like to talk about ships. 
“Oh, no!” said he, rather shocked. “Army—British army—stationed in India.” 
“I knew you were an Englishman.” 
“Did you really?” said he, as if surprised. “People do seem to know. My first visit to your country—six months’ leave—so I’ve come here to see my sister—Mrs. Quelton. She’s married to an American doctor.” 
Lexy thought there was something almost pathetic in his chivalrous anxiety to explain himself. 
“I’m Alexandra Moran,” she said. 
“Thank you!” said Captain Grey. “Thank you very much, Miss Moran!” 
There was no opportunity for further polite conversation, for the taxi had stopped and the driver came around to the door. 
“Better make a run fer it!” he said. “I’ll take yer bags.” 
So Captain Grey took Lexy’s arm, and they did make a run for it, through the fine, chilly rain, along a garden path and up on a veranda. The door was opened at once. 
“Miss Royce?” asked Captain Grey. 
“Mrs. Royce,” said the other. “Come right in. My, how it does rain!” 
“Something real?” 
“Like you said. Action that matters. Something big, and soon, 
before everybody forgets about the Minneapolis Nine.” 
“I want to be at this meeting.” I put my hand on his, gave it a little squeeze. “I mean, I know I’m kind of young, but it’s my brother who’s in jail.” 
“That’s the problem. Maybe you’re being watched because of your famous brother.” 
“But I’m not famous. The feds think I’m just a dumb kid, but I know a lot about how to keep my tracks hidden. I’ll be super- careful. Please? This matters to me.” 
“I’ll have to check, but it’ll probably be okay.” He tried to sound sure of himself but just sounded nervous. 
“I have to be at this meeting. Simon, it would mean everything to me.” 
“I’ll see what I can do.” 
“Give me your number so I can reach you.” He leaned close and whispered it to me as if he was a spy passing vital information. 
I saved the contact and smiled at him. “Thanks, Simon. It’s good to know someone who gets it. Who’s willing to do something more meaningful than post Facebook updates.” 
Rebecca looked disappointed but not quite dis-heartened. "That's pretty good," she said encouragingly. "You're warm but not hot; there's a brook, but not a common brook. It has young trees and baby bushes on each side of it, and it's a shallow chattering little brook with a white sandy bottom and lots of little shiny pebbles. Whenever there's a bit of sunshine the brook catches it, and it's always full of sparkles the livelong day. Don't your stomach feel hollow? Mine doest I was so 'fraid I'd miss the stage I couldn't eat any breakfast." 
"You'd better have your lunch, then. I don't eat nothin' till I get to Milltown; then I get a piece o'...  could see Milltown. I suppose it's bigger and grander even than...  my pink sunshade there and my bead purse. You see how it opens with a snap? I've twenty cents in it, and it's got to last three months, for stamps and paper and ink. Mother says aunt Mirandy won't want to buy things like those when she's feeding and clothing me and paying for my school books." 
"Seriously. We can do this. We can mess up the profiles easily. Getting people pulled over is easy." 
She sat up and pushed her hair off her face and looked at me. I felt a little flip in my stomach, thinking that she was really impressed with me. 
"It's the arphid cloners," I said. "They're totally easy to make. Just flash the firmware on a ten-dollar Radio Shack reader/writer and you're done. What we do is go around and randomly swap the tags on people, overwriting their Fast Passes and FasTraks with other people's codes. That'll make everyone skew all weird and screwy, and make everyone look guilty. Then: total gridlock." 
Van pursed her lips and lowered her shades and I realized she was so angry she couldn't speak. 
"Good bye, Marcus," she said, and got to her feet. Before I knew it, she was walking away so fast she was practically running. 
"Van!" I called, getting to my feet and chasing after her. "Van! Wait!" 
She picked up speed, making me run to catch up with her. 
"Van, what the hell," I said, catching her arm. She jerked it away so hard I punched myself in the face. 
The pirates all laughed. 
More journalists asked questions. Some were sympathetic, some were hostile. When I got tired, I handed my keyboard to Ange and let her be M1k3y for a while. It didn't really feel like M1k3y and me were the same person anymore anyway. M1k3y was the kind of kid who talked to international journalists and inspired a movement. Marcus got suspended from school and fought with his dad and wondered if he was good enough for his kick-ass girlfriend. 
By 11PM I'd had enough. Besides, my parents would be expecting me home soon. I logged out of the game and so did Ange and we lay there for a moment. I took her hand and she squeezed hard. We hugged. 
She kissed my neck and murmured something. 
"What?" 
"I said I love you," she said. "What, you want me to send you a telegram?" 
"Wow," I said. 
"You're that surprised, huh?" 
"No. Um. It's just -- I was going to say that to you." 
"Sure you were," she said, and bit the tip of my nose. 
"It's just that I've never said it before," I said. "So I was working up to it." 
<Zen> ! ! awesome! ! good luck. leave this phone at home, OK? 
<nikko> duh <Zen> but when you're done, use it to let me know how it went <nikko> yes boss <Zen> ? 
Whoa. 
I dressed, spending way more time than usual deciding which T-shirt to wear, trying to tame my hair, and stressing about a cou- ple of new zits that popped up overnight, feeling stupid because honestly, what difference does it make? I look pretty much the same, no matter what I do. But I had never met a filmmaker before and Nikko had freaked me out about how famous she was. Once I checked her out, I discovered her films were featured on BoingBo- ing all the time and she had a bazillion Twitter followers. Normally I don’t like famous people on principle, but she was my best bet for creating public pressure to free my brother and his friends. So, 
nerves and zits. I left a note for Monica and headed downtown. 
Normally, entering a fancy hotel would have been tricky. The guy whose job is to opens doors for people might have closed them for me. But I disguised myself as a credentialed geek by attaching myself to a group of T-shirt-and-jeans guys not much older than me going in the front doors for the conference. Then I headed for the elevators and rode to the tenth floor. 
"Never mind!" said Emma Jane comfortingly. "Everybody says you're awful bright and smart, and mother thinks you'll be better looking all the time as you grow older. You wouldn't believe it, but I was a dreadful homely baby, and homely right along till just a year or two ago, when my red hair began to grow dark. What was the nice man's name?" 
"I never thought to ask!" ejaculated Rebecca. "Aunt Miranda would say that was just like me, and it is. But I called him Mr. Aladdin because he gave us a lamp. You know the story of Aladdin and the wonderful lamp?" 
"Oh, Rebecca! how could you call him a nickname the very first time you ever saw him?" 
"Aladdin isn't a nickname exactly; anyway, he laughed and seemed to like it." 
By dint of superhuman effort, and putting such a seal upon their lips as never mortals put before, the two girls succeeded in keeping their wonderful news to themselves; although it was obvious to all beholders that they were in an extraordinary and abnormal state of mind. 
unless they're stationed inside, where they would do absolutely no good at all. 
A long, forlorn and ululating cry chases them the final distance. 
But they don't burst into the chamber as Ray would have them do, as they'd drilled it. Three steps, then a sort of stumbling halt. The soldier mentality drops away, submerged in a vat of darkness that is thick like oil.  The chamber is large, a man-made dome maybe thirty meters across. At regular alcoves around its edges, 
guttering clay lamps illuminate the dun colored rock, staining the curved walls black with their smoke in straight trails that look like charred ribs. There are a dozen men in the center of the floor, ranked into four neat files; they're down on their knees, the pose of a good Muslim facing toward Mecca. Except they're not praying. Rather, they're bent at the waist, their torso's straight, their arms extended above their head, and they slap their hands against the bare stone floor. The tight cadence of their slapping has become a reverberation that Ray heard in the tunnel, the chamber itself acting like a bell to their clapping. At the twelve o'clock, there is a sort of natural eruption of stone, a lectern that is melted like wax. Beside the lectern is a pool, a well surrounded by a low, stone parapet in the shape of a ring. The well is full to the top with a turbid and brackish and foul smelling water. In the space between pool and clappers, a shallow depression has been carved. 
Tony laughed and said, That's where you're wrong! File-O-Gator is just the long arm of one of the Ones In Charge. He probably slept with the wife of the One In Charge who runs BBD&O, and now they're fighting it out. 
I laughed at Tony and said, You keep talking about the Ones In Charge! Everything you say is stupid unless you believe in the Ones In Charge! What makes you think that there are any Ones In Charge? 
There has to be, Tony said. Who else is running the show? 
Rhindquist is! I said. 
Tony looked at me like I was stupid. I'm pretty sick of him looking at me like that. Tony said, If Rhindquist is running the show, then how come he has time to waste on you? 
I wanted to say something, but I didn't know what. Tony sure makes me angry! I got off the slidewalk and went home and wrote you this letter. 
Hi Mom! 
Gosh, poor Buddy! How can he be a spy? I played with him all my life! I never saw him being a spy! He'd have to be pretty sneaky to be a spy! I don't think he's a spy! I'm sure that the manager at his disciplinary hearing will figure out that he couldn't be a spy! 
Anda’s Da and Mum were watching the telly again with a bowl of crisps between them. She walked past them like she was dreaming and stepped out the door onto the terrace. It was nighttime, 11 o’clock, and the chavs in front of the council flats across the square were kicking a football around and swilling lager and making rude noises. They were skinny and rawboned, wearing shorts and string vests with strong, muscular limbs flashing in the streetlights. 
“Anda?” 
“Yes, Mum?” 
“Are you all right?” Her mum’s fat fingers caressed the back of her neck. 
“Yes, Mum. Just needed some air is all.” 
“You’re very clammy,” her mum said. She licked a finger and scrubbed it across Anda’s neck. “Gosh, you’re dirty—how did you get to be such a mucky puppy?” 
“Owww!” she said. Her mum was scrubbing so hard it felt like she’d take her skin off. 
“No whingeing,” her mum said sternly. “Behind your ears, too! You are filthy .” 
“Mum, owwww! ” 
Her mum dragged her up to the bathroom and went at her with a flannel and a bar of soap and hot water until she felt boiled and raw. 
I had to concentrate, because there was a lot of background noise from the people at the Owl who were stenciling signs and talking about oppression and capitalism and who had the glue and could somebody pass the scissors. But Simon’s voice was louder than the others (naturally). When somebody mentioned the good old days of the Occupy movement, Simon started ranting about how it was useless because the people involved were too hung up on consensus. “You want to speak truth to power? First you have to punch it in the nose to get its attention.” 
A woman said something about non-violence, which set Simon off on macho mansplaining. “Peaceful protest? You think that works? Face facts. If you want real change, you have to be willing to act.” 
He went on like that for a while, and while he never got spe- cific about what he thought should be done or who should do it, it was just edgy enough to work for our purposes. I was relieved that nobody else chimed in to agree. If Nikko took his recording to the feds, I wanted only Simon to become the target of a sting. 
“What makes you think she isn’t?” asked Lexy cautiously. 
He looked straight into her face. 
“You’re playing with me,” he said. “You’re fencing with me, to make me give myself away; and it’s a pretty rotten thing to do!” 
“Rotten?” Lexy repeated indignantly. “Rotten, not to answer questions from a perfect stranger?” 
“Yes,” he said, “it is; because that’s a question you could answer for any one. I’ve only asked you if Miss Enderby is—all right.” 
This high-handed tone didn’t suit Lexy at all. He was actually presuming to be angry, and that made her angry. 
“I shan’t tell you anything at all,” she said, and began to walk on again. 
He put on his hat and turned away, but in a moment he was back at her side. 
“Look here!” he said. “Caroline told me you were her friend. She said you could be trusted. All right—I am trusting you. I’ve felt, all along, that there was—something wrong. I’ve got to know! If you’ll give me your word that she’s safe at home, I’ll clear out, and apologize for having made a first-class fool of myself; but if she’s not, I ought to know!” 
The Story So Far was part game, part competition, part creative writing exercise, a massive shared universe drama with dozens of sub-plots, mysteries, betrayals, crosses, and double-crosses. Everyone kept saying it was only a matter of time until the big publishers started to cherry-pick the best writers from the message-boards, but in the meantime, there were these little hand-made editions, each one paying a small, honor-system royalty to the authors they anthologized. 
"Have you tried asking your teachers for help?" He knew as soon as he asked it that it was the wrong sort of question. She rolled her eyes with adolescent eloquence, then looked down again. "Only you might be able to get credit for it -- independent study type of thing?" 
She rolled her eyes again. 
"Right," he said. "Right. Well, sorry I couldn't be more help." The little bell over the door jingled merrily as she left. 
"Back again?" 
She had her school bag in her hands, zip opened, bag gaping. He was reminded of all those terrible little signs that said "No more than two school kids in the shop at any one time." Fancy that -- imagine if it said "No more than two women in the shop" or "No more than two Asians in the shop" -- kids were the last group you could treat like second class citizens without being called a bigot. 
What? After that neurotic song-and-dance he'd just given me in the park? I should have been overjoyed, but something about the whole thing immediately felt synthetic. I paused a long moment, trying to think the situation through. What was going on? 
The answer to that was clear as day. I was being set up. Somebody wanted me out of town, and they'd just found a way. 
Or was I being paranoid again? Had the weather cleared? I reached over and pushed aside a curtain. Nope, it looked as threatening as ever. 
No question. This was definitely a setup. 
On the other hand why not use whoever had put him up to this? This told me for sure I was on the trail of Sarah, and the sooner I got going, the better. Aside from calling New York and then checking out the local Ninos del Mundo that Barry Morton wanted me to see so badly, I had no other pressing plans. . . . 
"Alan, I thought you declared no 'effing' way were you going to go today," I said testing him. "Why the sudden revision in scheduling?" 
"What are you going to do with the magnificent profits you get from this business?" 
"We are not selling for our own benefit," said Rebecca confidentially. "My friend who is holding the horse at the gate is the daughter of a very rich blacksmith, and doesn't need any money. I am poor, but I live with my aunts in a brick house, and of course they wouldn't like me to be a peddler. We are trying to get a premium for some friends of ours." 
Rebecca had never thought of alluding to the circumstances with her previous customers, but unexpectedly she found herself describing Mr. Simpson, Mrs. Simpson, and the Simpson family; their poverty, their joyless life, and their abject need of a banquet lamp to brighten their existence. 
"You needn't argue that point," laughed the man, as he stood up to get a glimpse of the "rich blacksmith's daughter" at the gate. "I can see that they ought to have it if they want it, and especially if you want them to have it. I've known what it was myself to do without a banquet lamp. Now give me the circular, and let's do some figuring. How much do the Simpsons lack at this moment?" 
"I can't cook, Ray." 
"Yikes. It's a good thing you're independently wealthy, then. You'd have a hard time finding a husband with that resume." He winks; she smiles. She's more fun to play with than a bunch of uber-kids anyway, even if she doesn't like Captain Shadow. "Maybe you can run the mining operation and Frederick can run the Trust. That way each of you get a piece of the family business." 
It's out of his mouth before he can even...  ducks his head. 
"I don't think that would be a good idea. Children don't like my brother very much either. I certainly didn't like him when we were children." 
"Really?" 
"Come on, Ray, have you not been...  what is called slipping bait. But he can't just leave it there. "So kids don't like him because he's not a happy drunk. Why didn't you like him?" 
Emma shakes her head, looks away. "I don't want to talk about this." 
And he wants to stop there, should stop, but his mind fills with an image: Frederick grabbing Emma by the arm, his knuckles white. Not just bending her to his will, but intentionally causing her pain. Delighting in causing her pain. What did he do to you? 
I kept jiggling the power-adapter, but it was hopeless. There was no way I was going to get the thing to boot without taking it apart. I groaned and put it beside the bed. I'd deal with it in the morning. 
That was the theory, anyway. Two hours later, I was still staring at the ceiling, playing back movies in my head of what they'd done to me, what I should have done, all regrets and esprit d'escalier . 
I rolled out of bed. It had gone midnight and I'd heard my parents hit the sack at eleven. I grabbed the laptop and cleared some space on my desk and clipped the little LED lamps to the temples of my magnifying glasses and pulled out a set of little precision screwdrivers. A minute later, I had the case open and the keyboard removed and I was staring at the guts of my laptop. I got a can of compressed air and blew out the dust that the fan had sucked in and looked things over. 
Something wasn't right. I couldn't put my finger on it, but then it had been months since I'd had the lid off this thing. Luckily, the third time I'd had to open it up and struggle to close it again, I'd gotten smart: I'd taken a photo of the guts with everything in place. I hadn't been totally smart: at first, I'd just left that pic on my hard drive, and naturally I couldn't get to it when I had the laptop in parts. But then I'd printed it out and stuck it in my messy drawer of papers, the dead-tree graveyard where I kept all the warranty cards and pin-out diagrams. I shuffled them -- they seemed messier than I remembered -- and brought out my photo. I set it down next to the computer and kind of unfocused my eyes, trying to find things that looked out of place. 
"Come along then." The door opened with a cotton-soft sound from its balanced hinges, letting light into the room and giving him the squints. 
"I wondered about your friends," Lawrence said. "All those people at the restaurant." 
"Oh," Randy said. He was a black silhouette in the doorway. "Well, you know. Honor among thieves. Rank hath its privileges." 
"They were caught," he said. 
"Everyone gets caught," Randy said. 
"I suppose it's easy when everybody is guilty." He thought of Posy. "You just pick a skillset, find someone with those skills, and then figure out what that person is guilty of. Recruiting made simple." 
"Not so simple as all that," Randy said. "You'd be amazed at the difficulties we face." 
"Zbigniew Krotoski was one of yours." 
Randy's silhouette -- now resolving into features, clothes (another sweater, this one with a high collar and squared-off shoulders) -- made a little movement that Lawrence knew meant yes. Randy was all tells, no matter how suave and collected he seemed. He must have been really up to something when they caught him. 
Turned out there'd been plans for the concert in the park for weeks. It had hopped from blog to blog, turning into a full-blown movement without my noticing. And the concert was called Don't Trust Anyone Over 25. 
Well, that explained where Ange got it. It was a good slogan. 
Monday morning, I decided I wanted to check out that anarchist bookstore again, see about getting one of those Emma Goldman posters. I needed the reminder. 
I detoured down to 16th and Mission on my way to...  The store was shut, but I got the hours off the door and made sure they still had that poster up. 
As I...  to see how much of the DON'T TRUST ANYONE OVER 25 stuff there was. Half the shops had DON'T TRUST merch in the windows: lunchboxes, babydoll tees, pencil-boxes, trucker hats. The hipster stores have been getting faster and faster, of course. As new memes sweep the net in the course of a day or two, stores have gotten better at putting merch in the windows to match. Some funny little youtube of a guy launching himself with jet-packs made of carbonated water would land in your inbox on Monday and by Tuesday you'd be able to buy t-shirts with stills from the video on it. 
"It was a very small meeting, aunt Miranda," began Rebecca, "and the missionary and his wife are lovely people, and they are coming here to stay all night and to-morrow with you. I hope you won't mind." 
"Coming here!" exclaimed Miranda, letting her knitting fall in her lap, and taking her spectacles off, as she always did in moments of extreme excitement. "Did they invite themselves?" 
"No," Rebecca answered. "I had to invite them for you; but I thought you'd like to have such interesting company. 
"Stop your explainin', and tell me first when they'll be here. Right away?" 
"No, not for two hours—about half past five." 
"Then you can explain, if you can, who gave you any authority to invite a passel of strangers to stop here over night, when you know we ain't had any company for twenty years, and don't intend to have any for another twenty,—or at any rate while I'm the head of the house." 
"Don't blame her, Miranda, till you've heard her story," said Jane. "It was in my mind right along, if we went to the meeting, some such thing might happen, on account of Mr. Burch knowing father." 
It would be impossible for two children to see more, do more, walk more, talk more, eat more, or ask more questions than Rebecca and Emma Jane did on that eventful Wednesday. 
"She's the best company I ever see in all my life," said Mrs. Cobb to her husband that evening. "We ain't had a dull minute this day. She's well-mannered, too; she didn't ask for anything, and was thankful for whatever she got. Did you watch her face when we went into that tent where they was actin' out Uncle Tom's Cabin? And did you take notice of the way she told us about the book when we sat down to have our ice cream? I tell you Harriet Beecher Stowe herself couldn't 'a' done it better justice." 
"I took it all in," responded Mr. Cobb, who was pleased that "mother" agreed with him about Rebecca. "I ain't sure but she's goin' to turn out somethin' remarkable,—a singer, or a writer, or a lady doctor like that Miss Parks up to Cornish." 
"Lady doctors are always home'paths, ain't they?" asked Mrs. Cobb, who, it is needless to say, was distinctly of the old school in medicine. 
Her voice broke. 
“No more!” she said. “It is finished. But—attend, Miss Moran! There must be no scandal. No one is to know that she is not here.” 
She turned and walked out of the room. Lexy sank into a chair. 
“I don’t care!” she said to herself. 
“She’s wrong—I know it! It’s not what she thinks. Caroline’s not like that. Something dreadful has happened!” 
It seemed perfectly natural to be awakened in the morning by Mrs. Enderby’s hand on her shoulder, and to look up into Mrs. Enderby’s flashing black eyes. Lexy had gone to sleep dominated by the thought of that masterful woman. She vaguely remembered having dreamed of her, and when she opened her eyes—there she was. 
“Get up!” said Mrs. Enderby in a low voice. “Go into Caroline’s room. When Annie comes with the breakfast tray, take it from her at the door. I have told her that Caroline is ill with a headache. You understand?” 
“Yes, Mrs. Enderby,” answered Lexy. 
She sprang out of bed and began to dress, filled with an unreasoning sense of haste. It wasn’t a dream, then—it was true. Caroline had gone, and there was something Lexy must do for her. She could not have explained what this something was, but it oppressed and worried her. She could not rid herself of the feeling that she was not being loyal to Caroline. 
“I don’t care. I’m not going back there.” I could hear the hurt in her voice, but I was too angry to care. 
“Good. Cause I’d miss you if you did.” 
“No you wouldn’t. You’re just saying that.” I wasn’t mad at Monica, but she was there, so all that jittery anger went in her direction. I couldn’t seem to help myself. 
“I don’t lie to you, Zen.” 
“I’ll bet you do sometimes. People lie all the time.” 
She poked a finger through the hole in her tights, actually noticing it for the first time. “You’re right. I might say ‘good morn- ing’ when it’s actually a crappy day, or ‘that’s interesting’ when you’re telling me something about computers that I don’t care about. Sometimes the stuff we say when it’s not that important is automatic, just social noise. But I don’t think I have ever lied to you about anything that really matters. And I do enjoy having you for a roomie.” 
“Yeah, right. I bet it makes everything harder, having me around.” 
She thought it over. “Yes and no. I worry more about some things, like whether you have enough friends and if you’re getting a good education because honestly, this program you’re in sounds pretty bad. I wonder it’s fair to you to have to sleep in an attic closet on a mat instead of in a real bed in a real bedroom, if I’m giving you good advice, if I’m around enough for someone who’s only nineteen. But if I wasn’t worried about that, I’d just be worried about other stuff.” 
“Could we possibly have a little supper?” asked Lexy politely. 
“Yes, indeed you can!” said Mrs. Royce. “Right away!” But still she lingered. “Mrs. Quelton’s brother!” she said. “Well, I never!” 
Then she tore herself away, leaving Lexy and Captain Grey alone in the parlor. 
“Seems to bother her,” he said. “I wonder why!” 
Lexy was also wondering, and longing to ask questions, but she felt that it wouldn’t be good manners. 
“People in small places like this are always awfully curious,” she observed. 
“Yes,” said he; “and Muriel may be a bit eccentric, you know. I rather imagine she is, from her letters. I’ve never seen her.” 
“Never seen your own sister!” 
Lexy would certainly have asked questions now, manners or no manners, only that Mrs. Royce entered the room again, to fulfill her promise to make a “nice wood fire.” Amazing, the difference it made in the room! The ugliness and stiffness vanished in the ruddy glow. It seemed a delightful room, now, homely and welcoming and safe. 
“It’s real cozy here,” said Mrs. Royce, “on a night like this. I’m sorry the dining room’s so kind of chilly.” 
“I feel anxious about Miss Moran myself,” said Dr. Quelton. “I’m afraid she’s a very imprudent young lady.” 
But Lexy said nothing. 
The doctor’s library had a charm of its own. It was a big room, careless, a little shabby, but furnished in fastidious taste and with a friendly sort of comfort. A great wood fire was blazing on the hearth, and Dr. Quelton drew up an armchair before it for Lexy. 
“There!” he said. “Now you’ll soon be warm and dry. Anna!” 
“Yes, sir!” the parlor maid responded from the doorway. 
“Please tell Mrs. Quelton that Miss Moran is here.” 
“Yes, sir!” repeated the maid, and disappeared. 
Lexy sat down. Captain Grey stood, facing her, leaning one elbow on the mantelpiece. Dr. Quelton paced up and down, his hands clasped behind him. He looked like a dignified middle-aged gentleman in his own home. 
A door opened somewhere in the house, and for a moment Lexy heard the homely and...  and a cheerful Irish voice inquiring about “them potaters.” It was surely a cheerful and pleasant enough setting; but Lexy did not find it so. 
“You’ll be shot,” he said. “You must be . The alternative is that you’ll lead them back to me. And if you do that, the whole game is up—your family’s lives, my life, your life, the lives of all my assistants and friends will be forfeit. It will be terrible. They will destroy this place. They will destroy your home, too.” 
She didn’t report for her digging. That was OK. Lots of people didn’t show up to dig on the days when they were feeling too weak to hold a shovel. She wouldn’t be missed. 
She had the fastest shoes that the wizard could print for her on her feet, though she’d carefully covered them in grime and dirt so they wouldn’t stand out. And she’d taken an inhaler along that would make her faster still. He’d warned her to keep eating after she took the inhaler, or she’d starve to death before the day was out. The pockets on both thighs of her jumpsuit were stuffed with butterballs wrapped around sugared kidneys and livers, stuff that would sustain her no matter how many puffs she took. 
"I don't think I'm ready for that kind of commitment yet." 
"As you wish." He smiled with understanding. "But let me just say this. It's not going to be easy, but nothing I've seen so far suggests there's any physical reason why you can't have a child. We just need to get you in touch with the energy centers in your body. Rightness flows from that." 
"You really think so?" In spite of myself I felt my hopes rising, even though I had definite mixed feelings about his kind of "holistic" medicine. 
"I'm virtually certain. But whether you want to continue with the program or not is a decision you'll have to make for yourself." 
"Well, maybe when I'm feeling better we can talk some more about it." I definitely needed to reconsider my game plan. "For now, I think I'd better just get my things and—" 
"As you wish." He sighed. "Your clothes are in your room. There's a closet in the corner by the window." 
I shot a glance at him. "Does my Blue Cross cover this?" 
“On the house." A dismissive wave of his hand, and an­other kindly smile. 
"Sounds like the nav station." He clicked open his seat belt. "Something . . . Who knows? If you'd be happier, I'll go up and look." 
I felt my palms go cold. "Doesn't seem too much to ask, considering." 
The world down below us was a hostile mélange of tow­ering trees, all straining for the sky, while the ground itself was a dark tangle of ferns, lianas, strangler vines, creepers—among which lurked Olympic scorpions and some of the Earth's most poisonous snakes. If we had to set down here—I didn't even want to think about it. To lower a helicopter into the waves of flickering green below us would be to confront the hereafter. 
In his case it wasn't just the weather. He was fidgeting like a trapped animal, giving me the distinct sense he was doing someone's invisible bidding and was terrified he might fail. 
"Well, why don't you try and fix it?" Was he trying to act calm just to impress me? "Can't you bang on the panel or something?" 
"Okay, okay, let me see what I can do. Jesus!" He edged back into the cockpit, next to Villatoro. The wind was shak­ing us so badly that, even bent over, he was having trouble keeping his balance. Then he halfheartedly slammed the dark instrument readouts with the heel of his open hand. When the effort produced no immediate electronic miracle, he set­tled into the copilot's seat. 
I had to take a deep breath. Then before I could have second thoughts I started typing. 
<zen> It's not that. 
<zen> Okay, first, I like you a lot. Insert mushy stuff here. Just so you know. I always liked you, but I didn't know how much until you were in that shed and I had to find you and I wasn't sure if I could do it in time. 
<wheeze> I was SO happy to hear your voice that night. Insert sheer terror here. But I always knew I liked you. From the start. 
<zen> I don't always get people. Even myself. I mean, I got diagnosed as having "oppositional defiant disorder" when I was eleven . 
<wheeze> That's a thing? There should be a Nobel Prize for oppositional defiance. 
<zen> It was mean to ignore your messages. 
It's just so weird being here. I never told you why I left this place. I never even told Monica the gory details. But brace yourself, here it comes . 
<zen> When I was thirteen, I suddenly had boobs that were like bizarrely big and every- body laughed at me and the boys stared and gig- gled and it was awful, but I was used to it because everyone always thought I was weird. 
“Man, those guys are sick,” Van said. He scratched his arms, which had long, bloody scratches on them. His clothes were so covered in scurf they looked like they’d been dusted with icing sugar. 
“I thought it was pretty funny,” Felix said. 
“Christ I’m hungry,” Van said, conversationally. 
“Lucky for you, we’ve got all the packets we can eat,” Felix said. 
“You’re too good to us grunts, Mr President,” Van said. 
“Prime Minister,” he said. “And you’re no grunt, you’re the Deputy Prime Minister. You’re my designated ribbon-cutter and hander-out of oversized novelty checks.” 
It buoyed both of their spirits. Watching Popovich and Rosenbaum go, it buoyed them up. Felix knew then that they’d all be going soon. 
That had been pre-ordained by the fuel-supply, but who wanted to wait for the fuel to run out, anyway? 
› half my crew split this morning. 
Queen Kong typed. Google was holding up pretty good anyway, of course. The load on the servers was a lot lighter than it had been since the days when Google fit on a bunch of hand-built PCs under a desk at Stanford. 
Rebecca stood still for a moment until uncle Jerry took his seat again at the table, and then, unable to contain herself longer, cried, "Oh, Mr. Cobb, I've run away from the brick house, and I want to go back to the farm. Will you keep me to-night and take me up to Maplewood in the stage? I haven't got any money for my fare, but I'll earn it somehow afterwards." 
"Well, I guess we won't quarrel 'bout money, you and me," said the old man; "and we've never had our ride together, anyway, though we allers meant to go down river, not up." 
"I shall never see Milltown now!" sobbed Rebecca. 
"Come over here side o' me an' tell me all about it," coaxed uncle Jerry. "Jest set down on that there wooden cricket an' out with the whole story." 
Rebecca leaned her aching head against Mr. Cobb's homespun knee and recounted the history of her trouble. Tragic as that history seemed to her passionate and undisciplined mind, she told it truthfully and without exaggeration. 
Uncle Jerry coughed and stirred in his chair a good deal during Rebecca's recital, but he carefully concealed any undue feeling of sympathy, just muttering, "Poor little soul! We'll see what we can do for her!" 
> How about a party? 
he typed. 
> How about if we all get together somewhere like we're teenagers having a party and that way we'll have a ready-made excuse if anyone shows up asking us what we're doing there? 
> That would totally work! You're a genius, Jolu. 
> I know it. And you're going to love this: I know just where to do it, too... 
> Where? 
> Sutro baths! 
What would you do if you found out you had a spy in your midst? You could denounce him, put him up against the wall and take him out. But then you might end up with another spy in your midst, and the new spy would be more careful than the last one and maybe not get caught quite so readily. 
Here's a better idea: start intercepting the spy's communications and feed him and his masters misinformation. Say his masters instruct him to gather information on your movements. Let him follow you around and take all the notes he wants, but steam open the envelopes that he sends back to HQ and replace his account of your movements with a fictitious one. If you want, you can make him seem erratic and unreliable so they get rid of him. You can manufacture crises that might make one side or the other reveal the identities of other spies. In short, you own them. 
I goosed the sports car forward, the tires crunching on gravelly asphalt. As I came to the outskirts of the town, a familiar shape rose out of the darkness and distinguished itself: Tresting’s truck. 
I stopped the car and slid out, drawing the Smith & Wesson. I reached out my other hand to press against Tresting’s hood. The engine was cold. He’d been here for a while already. 
I recognized the silhouette and let my finger up off the trigger. “Tresting. Shit.” 
He lowered his weapon at the same time I did. “Russell? What you doing here?” 
“Backing you up.” I straightened, staying wary. “Checker called me in.” 
He sucked in a breath. “Course he did.” 
“What’s the situation?” I asked, keeping my eyes on the darkened buildings. 
He turned back toward the town. “Ain’t rightly sure. Nothing here.” 
My spine prickled. “What do you mean, nothing?” 
“Been through the place three times,” Tresting said. “Was real leery of surprises the first time through, but...nothing.” 
That didn’t make any sense. “What about the tracker?” 
She was in her robe, and he was in jeans and a UCLA sweatshirt. He didn't have any gel in his hair, which was matted down by the knit cap he'd been wearing. He looked adorable. 
"They fired me this morning," he said. 
"Oh, hon --" she said. 
"I would have quit," he said. "I'm outmatched." 
She felt herself blush. Or was she flushing? She was suddenly aware of his smell, the boy smell, the smell that she could smell in his chest, in his scalp, in his tummy, lower... She straightened up and led him into the living room and...  
"When do you fly back, then?" she said. 
He looked at her, smiling. "I don't know," he said. "I haven't booked a ticket." 
She felt an answering smile at the corners of her mouth and turned into the fridge to fetch out some gourmet...  she said, then laughed. 
She set everything to perking and went into the bedroom to pull on something smart and camera-friendly, but everything was in the hamper, so she settled for jeans and a decent shirt from last-year's wardrobe. 
What? 
> Major General Graeme Sutherland, the commanding officer for Northern California DHS operations, confirmed the request at a press conference yesterday, noting that a spike in suspicious activity in the Bay Area prompted the request. "We are tracking a spike in underground chatter and activity and believe that saboteurs are deliberately manufacturing false security alerts to undermine our efforts." 
My eyes crossed. No freaking way. 
> "These false alarms are potentially 'radar chaff' intended to disguise real attacks. The only effective way of combatting them is to step up staffing and analyst levels so that we can fully investigate every lead." 
> Sutherland noted the delays experienced all over the city were "unfortunate" and committed to eliminating them. 
I had a vision of the city with four or five times as many DHS enforcers, brought in to make up for my own stupid ideas. Van was right. The more I fought them, the worse it was going to get. 
Dad pointed at the paper. "These guys may be fools, but they're methodical fools. They'll just keep throwing resources at this problem until they solve it. It's tractable, you know. Mining all the data in the city, following up on every lead. They'll catch the terrorists." 
Thus she was no longer missing; she was now the apparent victim of an attempted murder. However, rather than being helpful, the local policia appeared annoyed she'd been found, thereby reopening the matter. A blond gringa was out hiking somewhere she had no business being in the first place and tripped and hit her head on something. Where's the crime? 
Lou brought her back to New York, using a medevac plane supplied by the State Department, which, wanting no more CIA-type scandals of American nationals being murdered in Guatemala, cooperated with great dispatch. 
After that, he needed a job that would afford him time flexibility, so he could be at her bedside as much as possible. David was looking for a security head, and I realized it would be a perfect match. Since we didn't really need a full-time person, Lou could spend a lot of hours at Lenox Hill, watch­ing over Sarah. 
She was just lying there now, no sign of consciousness, her body being kept alive with IV I'd go by to visit her as much as I could, and almost as bad as seeing the comatose Sarah was seeing the grief in Lou's eyes. He would sit there at the hospital every day, sometimes several hours a day, fingering an old engraved locket that carried her high-school graduation picture, just rubbing it through his fingers like a rosary. We always made allowances when he wanted to take time off during one of our shooting schedules, figuring maybe he was helping her. . . . 
though.) Then he asked me to teach him some Python, which didn’t go so well. It turned out he was good at making weird sculptures out of junk and screen-printing posters and reading hard books, but he didn’t have the patience to code. He doesn’t like being wrong, and being wrong is mostly what code is about. 
You’re wrong again and again until finally it works. 
But we found out we were both really interested in privacy issues, online and in real life, which turned into a kind of game. 
We both started paying more attention to our surroundings, 
noticing where security cameras were located (which is way more places than you might think), always looking out for spots that weren’t under surveillance, finding ways to evade Big Brother on an everyday basis. Wheeze was better at it than me, and I thought I was good. He started reading about encryption and when I sug- gested we both use PGP and exchange public keys, he was all over it. 
He even let me jailbreak his phone and install Convo, and it was a good thing I did, since it was the only safe way we could commu- nicate about the bust he barely escaped because he wasn’t at the house much these days. 
"As you like." He gave an absent shrug. 
I looked around and noticed that just off the kitchen was another space, which was, I realized, his private dining room. There was a rustic table in the center that looked like it had been carved from the trunk of a large Cebia tree. 
"In case you change your mind and decide to join me." He placed a bowl opposite where he was planning to sit. "Like I said, there're unusual herbs around here with flavors you've never dreamed of." 
He began eating, while behind him I glimpsed Marcelina moving down the hall, carrying more trays of vaccine and headed out toward the vestibule again. I had to find a way to talk to her. 
As I settled into the rickety chair that faced my plate, I glanced down and saw a red lumpy mixture with a spray of indefinable green specks across the top like a scattering of jungle stars. No way. 
When I looked up again, he was swabbing his lips with a white napkin, his penetrating eyes boring in. 
"Now," he said, "it's time we started concentrating on you. Got you going with your program." 
“Fuckrag,” Felix said, “fuck off.” 
They had less than a day’s worth of fuel when Felix was elected the first ever Prime Minister of Cyberspace. The first count was spoiled by a bot that spammed the voting process and they lost a critical day while they added up the votes a second time. 
But by then, it was all seeming like more of a joke. Half the data-centers had gone dark. Queen Kong’s net-maps of Google queries were looking grimmer and grimmer as more of the world went offline, though she maintained a leader-board of new and rising queries—largely related to health, shelter, sanitation and self-defense. 
Worm-load slowed. Power was going off to many home PC users, and staying off, so their compromised PCs were going dark. The backbones were still lit up and blinking, but the missives from those data-centers were looking more and more desperate. Felix hadn’t eaten in a day and neither had anyone in a satellite Earth-station of transoceanic head-end. 
Water was running short, too. 
Popovich and Rosenbaum came and got him before he could do more than answer a few congratulatory messages and post a canned acceptance speech to newsgroups. 
I was still weighing my options, trying to figure out if the plan that had come to me would work or if I should make an excuse and bail. After a few blocks we stopped in front of a decrepit house. “That’s me, up there.” He pointed up a flight of wooden stairs on the side of the two-story rental. “Let’s listen to the album, and then I’ll make up the couch for you.” 
“I don’t want to be any trouble.” 
“People crash at my place all the time.” He took my free hand and acted concerned. “Don’t you worry about getting frostbite, 
biking in this weather?” 
I could see myself indoors, playing along. We’d listen to the music and when he wasn’t looking, I’d swap our wine glasses. 
Once he passed out, I would take a good look at both of his phones. I’d find his computer and copy his hard drive. 
I was brave. I was the Secret Avenger. I could do this. 
“You talked me into it,” I said, and locked my bike to the fence beside the staircase before following him up the steps, shivering but not from the cold. Inside, his apartment smelled like an ash tray that hadn’t been washed in about ten years. There was a ratty couch, a desk piled with papers and unopened junk mail, a bed in one corner, shelves that held a fancy turntable and a lot of records. 
I was still so upset over Sarah, I couldn't immediately process those illogical observations, so I just grabbed my pink roses, dripping from the bottom of their paper wrapping, and opened the car door. It was definitely good to be home. I loved my Chelsea neighborhood, where you got to know the locals, running into them in the delis, the little restau­rants, the dry cleaners. Just like a small town. If you worked at home, the way I sometimes did, you even got to know the mailman and the delivery guys for UPS and FedEx. . . . 
Hey! That guy. I finally placed the walk, a kind of a strut. He was the slimeball who'd been outside Paula Marks' building last week, carrying a gun and threatening me. What's he doing here? 
My pulse went off the charts. Was he one of Nicky Russo's wiseguy crew after all? Had he come back, with his pistol, to pay me a return engagement? 
My God. 
Chill out, I told myself, take a deep breath. He's leaving. Just try and find out who he is. 
Roses in one hand held up awkwardly around my face, I slowly ambled down the street after him. I didn't have to go far. Within about a hundred feet, he unlocked a long black Lincoln Towncar, stepped out of the FedEx camouflage, tossed it onto the seat along with the bag he was carrying, pulled the cap off his bald head got in, and sped away. 
“You implanted a tracker in me!” 
She shook her head. “Here’s how this is going to work. You tell us everything you know about Halliday, and you give us your real identity and any aliases. If we feel like you’d be an asset at that point, we’ll talk. If not...we’ll have a different talk.” 
My mouth had gone dry, but the part of my brain that controlled speech didn’t seem to have registered that this could be some real trouble. “What, did your superiors give you a lot of shit when I cut your leash? Or did your idiot partner get fired for being dumb enough to step on something that should’ve gotten you both killed? Maybe they’ll fire you, too, for not being quick enough at finding the very smart woman you were supposed to be rescuing and possibly dooming the global economy in the process—” 
“You should be behind bars,” she interrupted, so viciously I sat back, mute. “We’d be doing the world a fucking favor locking someone like you away, and if I have anything to say about it, that’s exactly what will happen. The only thing that’s saving you right now, the only thing, is that we’re in a fucking national security crisis that you don’t seem to give a rat’s ass about.” She paused, breath heaving, contempt writ through every line of her face. “You disgust me. The world might be ending for the rest of us, but you, it’s your goddamn lottery ticket. And you don’t even give a shit about it.” 
“What?” I said. 
Checker turned to one of his other machines without answering and started typing very fast. 
“What is it?” 
“I think—” His fingers slowed. “I think I know who it is.” 
“What? What do you mean? You found who has Halliday?” 
“Well, I can’t find them. But I think I would be able to if they weren’t wiped.” 
“Hey.” I snapped my fingers at him. “Make sense.” 
“I think it’s the Lancer.” 
“Who’s that?” 
“A black hat hacker. A pretty infamous one. So much of what I’ve been trying to track has been wiped, and I just realized—it’s his style, exactly. The way the information’s gone missing—it’s like a shadow. His shadow.” 
“Wait a second,” I said. “Does this mean someone else would be able to trace me through data you’ve wiped? Because that doesn’t make me feel terribly secure—” 
“Oh, leave it to you to make it all about you. Come on, Cas. I’m the best. And whoever else—” He cut himself off with a cough. “It’s different. This guy left traces.” 
But whoever this was probably felt confident he’d wiped the evidence clean. Just like Checker felt confident. And with the NSA’s spying eyes being turned toward us right now...my thoughts soured. 
“No!” 
“OK then. I don’t know either. But the money’s good. I don’t care. Hell, probably it’s two rich gamers who pay their butlers to craft for them all day. One’s fucking with the other one and paying us.” 
“You really think that?” 
Lucy sighed a put-upon, sophisticated, American sigh. “Look at it this way. Most of the world is living on like a dollar a day. I spend five dollars every day on a frappuccino. Some days, I get two! Dad sends mom three thousand a month in child-support—that’s a hundred bucks a day. So if a day’s money here is a hundred...  my frappuccino is worth like five hundred dollars . And I buy two or three every day. 
“And we’re not rich! There’s craploads of rich people who wouldn’t think twice about spending five...  you think a hotdog and a Coke go for on the space station? A thousand bucks! 
“So that’s what I think is going on. There’s someone out there, some Saudi or Japanese guy or Russian mafia kid who’s so rich that this is just chump change for him, and he’s paying us to mess around with some other rich person. To them,...  a day to craft—I mean, sew—t-shirts. What’s a couple hundred bucks to...  about it. It made a kind of sense. She’d been on hols in Bratislava where they got a posh hotel room for ten quid—less than she was spending every day on sweeties and fizzy drinks. 
The words faded as he walked away, but the tone of his muttering sounded like an argument. “No way! I’m not going to risk my rep- utation. You can do this without me.” As he wandered back my way his words got clearer. “Exactly. All you got to do is meet with him, do your thing, boom. Get it? Boom.” He laughed, then sighed dramatically. “No, I’m not stoned. Look, I’ll call you.” 
I waited until I heard the front door open and close, then crawled out of the bushes and crunched my way to the back door, 
thinking about what to do. As important as it was to free my brother, I also wanted to be sure Simon’s reputation was ruined for good. I was worried the film I had made so far wasn’t damning enough, that people wouldn’t believe good old Simon was work- ing for the feds unless they saw him high-fiving an FBI agent as the bust went down. I stomped the snow off my boots and went into the kitchen. 
“What were you doing out there?” Tweak was standing at the refrigerator. 
“Somebody said there was more beer on the back porch, get- ting cold,” I improvised. “There wasn’t.” 
"I'm saying I'm out. I'm going to be one of those people who acts like it's all OK, like it'll all go back to normal some day. I'm going to use the Internet like I always did, and only use the Xnet to play games. I'm going to get out is what I'm saying. I won't be a part of your plans anymore." 
I didn't say anything. 
"I know that's leaving you on your own. I don't want that, believe me. I'd much rather you give up with me. You can't declare war on the government of the USA. It's not a fight you're going to win. Watching you try is like watching a bird fly into a window again and again." 
He wanted me to say something. What I wanted to say was, Jesus Jolu, thanks so very much for abandoning me! Do you forget what it was like when they took us away? Do you forget what the country used to be like before they took it over? But that's not what he wanted me to say. What he wanted me to say was: "I understand, Jolu. I respect your choice." 
He drank the rest of his bottle and pulled out another one and twisted off the cap. 
"You'll have to wear a mask pretty soon, if you're going to have any comfort, Huldah," said Rebecca. "Did he offer to lend you his class pin, or has it been so long since he graduated that he's left off wearing it? And tell us now whether the principal asked for a lock of your hair to put in his watch?" 
This was all said merrily and laughingly, but there were times when Huldah could scarcely make up her mind whether Rebecca was trying to be witty, or whether she was jealous; but she generally decided it was merely the latter feeling, rather natural in a girl who had little attention. 
"He wore no jewelry but a cameo scarf pin and a perfectly gorgeous ring,—a queer kind of one that wound round and round his finger. Oh dear, I must run! Where has the hour gone? There's the study bell!" 
Rebecca had pricked up her ears at Huldah's speech. She remembered a certain strange ring, and it belonged to the only person in the world (save Miss Maxwell) who appealed to her imagination,—Mr. Aladdin. Her feeling for him, and that of Emma Jane, was a mixture of romantic and reverent admiration for the man himself and the liveliest gratitude for his beautiful gifts. Since they first met him not a Christmas had gone by without some remembrance for them both; remembrances chosen with the rarest taste and forethought. 
Wareham was a pretty village with a broad main street shaded by great maples and elms. It had an apothecary, a blacksmith, a plumber, several shops of one sort and another, two churches, and many boarding-houses; but all its interests gathered about its seminary and its academy. These seats of learning were neither better nor worse than others of their kind, but differed much in efficiency, according as the principal who chanced to be at the head was a man of power and inspiration or the reverse. There were boys and girls gathered from all parts of the county and state, and they were of every kind and degree as to birth, position in the world, wealth or poverty. There was an opportunity for a deal of foolish and imprudent behavior, but on the whole surprisingly little advantage was taken of it. Among the third and fourth year students there was a certain amount of going to and from the trains in couples; some carrying of heavy books up the hill by the sterner sex for their feminine schoolmates, and occasional bursts of silliness on the part of heedless and precocious girls, among whom was Huldah Meserve. She was friendly enough with Emma Jane and Rebecca, but grew less and less intimate as time went on. She was extremely pretty, with a profusion of auburn hair, and a few very tiny freckles, to which she constantly alluded, as no one could possibly detect them without noting her porcelain skin and her curling lashes. She had merry eyes, a somewhat too plump figure for her years, and was popularly supposed to have a fascinating way with her. 
The floor around me was littered with bottles, my old toaster, my tiny microwave. It was a total shambles. 
I recoiled stumbling again, this time over cans strewn across the linoleum. My kitchen, it was slowly sinking in, had been completely trashed. 
I felt a visceral wave of nausea. It's the scariest thing in the world having your space invaded like a form of psychic rape. I sagged against the refrigerator as I gazed around. The cabinets had been emptied out, a hasty and haphazard search. Quick and extremely dirty, as glass containers of condiments, including an old bottle of dill pickles, were shattered and their contents smeared into the floor. 
"I don't believe this." I marched back into the living room and reached for the lights. This room too had been turned upside down. The TV, stereo, VCR, all had been swept onto the rug. But they were still there. That guy, that animal, who did this wasn't a thief. He'd been looking for something. 
My breath now coming in pulses, I edged into the bedroom and switched on the light. The bed was the way I'd left it, the covers thrown back and the pillows in a pile. The clock radio was there, and so was the old Mac, still on the table in the far corner, my "workstation." Again nothing seemed to be missing. 
“And if I don’t agree to drink the Kool-Aid, then are you going to let us go?” 
“Well, it hardly makes sense to do that if you’re going to work against us, does it? Not when our efforts are bettering so many, many lives.” She spoke simply, articulately, earnestly. “Ms. Russell, we lift countless people out of poverty and starvation every day. We’re bringing down violent crime globally, effecting drastic change in cities that have never known any other reality. We’ve headed off nuclear crises and tamed dangerous insurgent groups into nothing, made brutal warlords impotent or helped raise up revolutions against them. Millions of people suffer less every day because of what we do—real, tangible people who can work and love and live their lives now—because of us.” 
I shook my head, trying to dispel her magic, to wrap myself in my internal mathematics and use it to ward off her spell. “You kill people,” I reminded her doggedly. “Arthur and his tech guy tied a long list of murders to you. And you do brainwash people; I saw what you did to Leena Kingsley, and I’m pretty sure you brainwashed Courtney into killing Kingsley’s husband and making it look like a suicide. Oh, and you’ve tried to kill Arthur and me both. Not the best way to convince me you’re all sunshine and rainbows.” 
“Shit,” Arthur said softly. 
I drew my gun, keeping it hidden from the street behind my body. “You got your lockpicks on you?” 
“Cover me,” he said, pulling them out. 
He slid the picks in and turned the knob. “Behind me,” I said as he pushed the door open, and I crept in crosshairs-first. Arthur dropped back so I could take point and eased the door shut behind us with a click. 
The entryway led into an earth-toned living room in a jumble of...  chairs were knocked off-kilter, with some needlepoint and photographs dangling askew and scattered across the floor. A set of shelves had fallen to lean precariously against the back of the couch, books and papers strewn across the furniture. 
The disarray wasn’t too bad—just enough to tell the story of a struggle. 
“Oh,” said a weak voice. 
Arthur swore and slipped past me into the kitchen, holstering his Glock. I followed and saw a pair of stumpy legs sprawled over the ceramic tile, attached to a woman slumped against the refrigerator—a woman who was not Sonya Halliday. She was a very tiny older lady, with copper-toned skin and a face so creased with wrinkles she reminded me of a walnut. A cap of gray hair still shot with black gave her a few years back, though right now the hair was wet and matted, and the ice-filled washcloth she held against it was being dyed a deep red. 
"Right," he says finally. "Smith or Jones?" 
FSA or International Intelligence Agency? 
Ray grins. "Worse." 
The Marine stiffens noticeably. Right now he's thinking military CID or special forces or some other traditional covert organization. It's enough to shake him up, which is the way Ray wants him. 
"We've only been on about twenty minutes. Got here just about the time Becker was hollerin' for somebody to get him a locked line. They didn't let us in, just told us to guard the door and not let anybody in unless his name was Marlowe or he had captain's stripes on his sleeves." 
"So you haven't been inside?" 
"Nope. Just watched the dumbasses coming out. " 
"What do you think happened?" 
He shrugs, doesn't really care. "Somebody got whacked. People are puking and shit. I figure it must be pretty bad, at least by sec-o standards anyway. " 
Meaning, not as bad as they make it out to be, more than likely. 
"Does it strike you as unusual that you're guarding the door to a storage bay for a security investigation?" 
“What the hell!” cried Arthur. 
“We’d better switch cars,” I said. 
“You could’ve gotten us killed!” 
“Please. That was child’s play.” 
“You might’ve gotten other people killed!” 
“At those velocities it would have been their faults for buying death traps.” It was true, though I hadn’t thought it through in so many words beforehand. I decided against telling Arthur that. “We should probably relocate our hideout to somewhere outside LA.” 
Arthur covered his eyes with one hand. I almost felt sorry for him. 
By the time we arrived back at the apartment, I could tell my body temperature was edging up into a fever. We squelched inside, and I went to dig out some dry bandages. Arthur, no matter how irritated he might be with my methods, started mother hen-ing me again and pulling out another bag of IV antibiotics. 
When the phone in my pocket rang loudly, however, the clean bandages hit the floor as I scrabbled at my jacket. Arthur was squeezing the IV bag in his hand so tightly it looked like it might burst. I finally got the phone out, almost dropping it in my haste to hit the button before it went to voicemail. “Hello?” 
It took me a while to muddle out what he was asking. I had to concentrate, figure it out. “No.” Was that the right answer? 
I heard him take a quiet breath, a sigh that sounded like relief. 
“What happened?” I mumbled. 
“Checker did it,” said Arthur. “Sounds like whatever you two was on about, it worked. Knocked Pithica off their game something good, from their reaction here.” His voice faltered, as if he didn’t know whether we’d done right or not. 
I didn’t know either. 
I tried to sort through my disjointed memories of the fight. “Dawna got away,” I dredged up finally. 
Arthur chuckled dryly. “Think it’d be more accurate to say we got away, sweetheart. Ain’t like we had the upper hand here.” 
“Rio,” I remembered. Sudden fright spiked through me. Where was he? I sat up so quickly that my brain crashed and melted inside my head, the room spasming. I would have fallen over again if Arthur hadn’t caught me. 
“Whoa, whoa there. I gotcha. Just breathe.” 
“Rio,” I repeated urgently. “Where is—what did they—?” 
She opened the small fridge next to her office and brought out two corn-starch-foam buckets of beer and punctured each one at the top with a pen from her desk. She handed me one beer and raised the other in a toast. I don't normally drink before 10AM, but this was a special occasion. I clunked my cup against hers and chugged. The suds were good -- they came from one of the Institute's biotech labs -- and they were so cold that I felt ice-crystals dissolving on my tongue. Between the crispy beers and the blast of Arctic air coming from the vents in the ceiling, my core temp plunged and I became a huge goosepimple beneath my film of sticky sweat. 
I shivered once. Then she fixed me with an icy look that made me shiver again. 
"Odell," she said. "I think you probably imagine that you understand the gravity of the situation. You do not. BIGMAC's antics this morning have put the entire Institute in jeopardy. Our principal mission is to make Sun-Oracle seem forward-looking and exciting. That is not the general impression the public has at this moment." 
A strange sensation of pain and dread oppressed her. What should she do? Whom should she tell? 
“Captain Grey,” she thought; “but not now. It’s no use now. Dr. Quelton would deny it. I’ll have to wait until we get out of here; and then, perhaps, it’ll be too late. He knows I saw her. Something—something horrible—may happen!” 
A shiver ran through her. 
“Miss Moran is nervous,” said the doctor, with solicitude. 
“I’m not!” replied Lexy sharply. 
“I hope it’s not a chill,” said Captain Grey. 
“I should be inclined to think it nervousness,” said Dr. Quelton. “Our landscape here is lonely and depressing, and Miss Moran has the artist’s temperament, impressionable, high-strung.” 
“Not I!” declared Lexy, in a tone that startled Captain Grey. “Lonely places don’t bother me. I don’t believe in ghosts.” 
“Oh!” said the doctor. “But here’s Mrs. Quelton. Muriel, this is Miss Moran, the young writer of fiction.” 
Mrs. Quelton was coming down the long room, a beautiful woman, dark and delicate, with a sort of plaintive languor in her manner. She held out her hand to Lexy. 
"You don't see this," she said, as she cranked the AC wide open and then fiddled with the carbon-footprint reporting system, using her override so that the journos outside wouldn't be able to see just how much energy the Institute's esteemed director was burning. 
"I don't see it," I agreed, and made a mental note to show her a more subtle way of doing that, a way that wouldn't leave an audit trail. 
She opened the small fridge next to her office and brought out two corn-starch-foam buckets of beer and punctured each one at the top with a pen from her desk. She handed me one beer and raised the other in a toast. I don't normally drink before 10AM, but this was a special occasion. I clunked my cup against hers and chugged. The suds were good -- they came from one of the Institute's biotech labs -- and they were so cold that I felt ice-crystals dissolving on my tongue. Between the crispy beers and the blast of Arctic air coming from the vents in the ceiling, my core temp plunged and I became a huge goosepimple beneath my film of sticky sweat. 
The only person who’d been able to get my mind to... do things...this way was Dawna Polk. I shivered, the feel of her invading tendrils a visceral echo in my brain, even years later. But she’d been seamless, hadn’t she? Most of the time I hadn’t even been able to tell when I was doing what she wanted. To be perfectly honest with myself, I still didn’t fully know what she’d made me do and what decisions I’d made myself. I was pretty sure I’d never know. 
What was happening now? 
I could force myself out of here if I wanted. Right? I was sure I could. But if I did, I’d never figure out why my brain—or someone else—wanted me to be here. 
Unless that was a rationalization. Unless that was the weird psychic command’s way of forcing me to keep going. Unless someone, Dawna Polk or someone like her, was counting on me thinking exactly that way... 
Shit. 
Why would Dawna Polk or anyone else want me to randomly come to a graveyard? 
I sat for a while longer. 
In the end, it wasn’t a choice. I had to figure out where this feeling was leading me, whether or not whoever had set this up was counting on that. I stood up and walked down the path. My gun was in my hand. 
“Exactly. Simple as that. Can’t have you having bad dreams, and I’ve paid my dues. From now on, I’m only going on night call to cover holidays.” 
She laughed. “Sysadmins don’t take holidays.” 
“This one will,” he said. “Promise.” 
“Oh that he is,” she said. She hung up, and he piloted the car into the data-center lot, badging in and peeling up a bleary eyelid to let the retinal scanner get a good look at his sleep-depped eyeball. 
He stopped at the machine to get himself a guarana/medafonil power-bar and a cup of...  clean-room sippy-cup. He wolfed down the bar...  inner door read his hand-geometry and size him up for a moment. It sighed open and gusted the airlock’s load of positively pressurized air over him as he passed finally to the inner sanctum. 
It was bedlam. The cages were designed to let two or three sysadmins maneuver around them at a time. Every other inch of cubic space was given over to humming racks of servers and routers and drives. Jammed among them were no fewer than twenty other sysadmins. It was a regular convention of black tee-shirts with inexplicable slogans, bellies overlapping belts with phones and multitools. 
They returned through the house. He had left the lights burning and the doors open, so that there was a monstrous air of festivity in the emptiness. They went into Mrs. Quelton’s room again, and crossed through it to the balcony. He carried the lantern with him, and by its steady yellow flame they could see into every corner. There was the couch upon which she had lain—disarranged, as if she had just risen from it. There was a little table with medicine bottles on it. All the usual things were in the usual places. 
“Nothing here,” said Captain Grey. 
Lexy was sure, however, that there was. She stepped to the balcony railing, to look down into the garden below, and there, on the white paint of the railing, she found something. 
“Look!” she said, in a matter-of-fact voice. “What’s this?” 
He came to her side. 
“It’s the print of a hand,” he said. “In blood, I should imagine.” 
For a moment they stared at the ghastly mark, a strange evidence of pain and violence in this quiet place. 
“We’d better look in the garden,” he suggested. 
I introduced myself and she introduced herself. "Ange," she said, and shook my hand with hers -- dry, warm, with short nails. Jolu introduced me to his pals, whom he'd known since computer camp in the fourth grade. More people showed up -- five, then ten, then twenty. It was a seriously big group now. 
We'd told people to arrive by 9:30 sharp, and we gave it until 9:45 to see who all would show up. About three quarters were Jolu's friends. I'd invited all the people I really trusted. Either I was more discriminating than Jolu or less popular. Now that he'd told me he was quitting, it made me think that he was less discriminating. I was really pissed at him, but trying not to let it show by concentrating on socializing with other people. But he wasn't stupid. He knew what was going on. I could see that he was really bummed. Good. 
"OK," I said, climbing up on a ruin, "OK, hey, hello?" A few people nearby paid attention to me, but the ones in the back kept on chatting. I put my arms in the air like a referee, but it was too dark. Eventually I hit on the idea of turning my LED keychain on and pointing it at each of the talkers in turn, then at me. Gradually, the crowd fell quiet. 
The answer to that was both yes and no. In a sense I'd gotten considerably more than I bargained for. 
"He wants me to come back," I said. "And I think I might do it. There's a lot more going on with Alex Goddard than you'd know from just looking at this place. The trick is to stay in control when you're around him." 
I tossed the brochure into Lou's lap as I started the engine. He took it and immediately began looking through it. 
Lou, I knew, was a man always interested in facts and figures. As we headed toward the Parkway he was pouring through the brochure with intense interest, even as I tried to give him a brief reprise of Alex Goddard's medical philoso­phy. 
"It says here his patients come from all over the United States and Europe," he noted, finally interrupting me. 
I found nothing odd in that, and went back to rambling on about Quetzal Manor. Give the place its due, it was placid and tranquil and smacked of the benign spirituality Goddard claimed to put so much stock in. Still, I found it unsettling. 
Then the wizard came into the sitting room and waved the lights up to full bright, wincing away from the sudden illumination. He squinted at her. 
“Do I know you?” he said. 
Her tongue caught in her mouth. In his pajamas with his hair mussed, he still looked every inch the wizard. 
“I;” She couldn’t finish. “I—” She tried again. “You gave me clothes. My mother is a soldier.” 
He snapped his fingers and grinned. “Oh, the soldier’s daughter . I remember you now. You counted the toothbrushes. You’re a bright girl.” 
“She’s a walking skeleton.” The beautiful blonde woman was in the kitchen, tinkering with the cooker. It was the pre-war kind, capable of printing out food with hardly any intervention. Valentine was hypnotized by her fingers. 
“You want...  her with some drinking chocolate, Ana,” the wizard said....  love chocolate.” 
She hadn’t tasted chocolate in—She didn’t know. Her mouth was flooded with saliva. The woman, Ana, pressed some more buttons and then took down a bottle of rum from a cupboard. 
“He thinks they’re waiting for him, and he’s going in anyway.” 
“Hence the needing backup.” 
“Okay. When and where?” 
There was a short beat of silence, as if Checker had expected a different response, but he recovered quickly. “I’m texting you the details now, including the location and the tracker frequency. Satellite imagery was no help, unfortunately; it only shows some buildings in the middle of the desert. As for when...he’s going in tonight.” 
I looked up at the stars. “Uh, it’s night already.” 
“Yeah.” 
“So, I’m in kind of a hurry here, huh.” 
“He left a few hours ago,” said Checker. “I tried to stop him.” 
His words had become heavy with worry. It made me feel strangely isolated—no one gave a damn if I decided to make a suicide run. I wouldn’t even be missed; I’d disappear into the fabric of the Los Angeles underground as if I’d never existed. 
“I’d better get going, then,” I said, starting to walk faster. “Anything else I should know? Is anyone else with him?” 
“I swear, I tried to get him to call in help. He got all idiotic nobility complex on me about not wanting to involve anyone else.” 
"That applies how?" 
"Manipulation of the shed in that way is mission oriented. The parameter set that drives the programming, the idea that informs the meme, is reset to zero after the task is carried out. Do you understand?" 
He gets it. "It's too time and labor intensive unless you want to accomplish something you couldn't do with normal guns and willing followers. Like an assassination of a foreign official, or the infiltration of a nuclear complex. Something big." 
"Except that even to do that, you have to provide a prohibitive amount of guidance. You have to know exactly what you're making the shed do, because the shed despises you. It does not want to serve your human purposes. In fact, it wants to destroy you for daring to have disturbed it. To command the shed is a nightmare of micromanagement wherein even the smallest mistake generates unforeseen disasters, because it wants to be free. 
"That is the hidden concept in all the ancient texts, this idea of disturbance. To call the shed, you disturb it from something else that it was doing. You remove it from an environment that is somehow essential to its nature and pleasure, and drag it into corporeal activity. " 
"It's still our country," I said. "We still have the right to do this." 
Van looked like she was going to cry. She took a couple of deep breaths and stood up. "I can't do it, I'm sorry. I can't watch you do this. It's like watching a car-wreck in slow motion. You're going to destroy yourself, and I love you too much to watch it happen." 
She bent down and gave me a fierce hug and a hard kiss on the cheek that caught the edge of my mouth. "Take care of yourself, Marcus," she said. My mouth burned where her lips had pressed it. She gave Jolu the same treatment, but square on the cheek. Then she left. 
Jolu and I stared at each other after she'd gone. 
I put my face in my hands. "Dammit," I said, finally. 
Jolu patted me on the back and ordered me another latte. "It'll be OK," he said. 
"You'd think Van, of all people, would understand." Half of Van's family lived in North Korea. Her parents never forgot that they had all those people living under a crazy dictator, not able to escape to America, the way her parents had. 
Jolu shook his head. "You can't, you know. You can't fight back against that." 
None of us much wanted to talk about revenge then. Instead, we talked about what we would do next. We had to go home. Our phones' batteries were dead and it had been years since this neighborhood had any payphones. We just needed to go home. I even thought about taking a taxi, but there wasn't enough money between us to make that possible. 
So we walked. On the corner, we pumped some quarters into a San Francisco Chronicle newspaper box and stopped to read the front section. It had been five days since the bombs went off, but it was still all over the front cover. 
Severe haircut woman had talked about "the bridge" blowing up, and I'd just assumed that she was talking about the Golden Gate bridge, but I was wrong. The terrorists had blown up the Bay bridge . 
"Why the hell would they blow up the Bay bridge?" I said. "The Golden Gate is the one on all the postcards." Even if you've never been to San Francisco, chances are you know what the Golden Gate looks like: it's that big orange suspension bridge that swoops dramatically from the old military base called the Presidio to Sausalito, where all the cutesy wine-country towns are with their scented candle shops and art galleries. It's picturesque as hell, and it's practically the symbol for the state of California. If you go to the Disneyland California Adventure park, there's a replica of it just past the gates, with a monorail running over it. 
They went into the vestibule and then turned left into a flat. Now, until this time, she’d always turned right when visiting the wizard, but now on the right there was nothing but a smooth, unbroken wall. And to the left, there was an entirely different flat, barren of furniture as her own flat, small and dirty and smelling of death. 
“Search away,” the wizard said. He tried to put a hand on Valentine’s shoulder and she shied away and dropped her hand to the waistband of the trousers he’d printed for her, where she’d hidden her mother’s tiny sidearm. “You’ll find nothing, I assure you.” 
Valentine could see that they’d find nothing. All the furniture in the room couldn’t have concealed a single tin of food. This wasn’t even the right flat. With her amazing ears, she heard the movement of the wizard’s associates, the documentarians, in the next flat over. 
“I hear them,” she said. “Next door. This isn’t the right flat.” 
“This is the flat you led me to,” the old hero said. 
“It’s through there!” she said, pointing at the blank wall. “It’s a false wall!” She thumped it but it was solid and stony. Tears pricked her eyes. “These clothes!” she said, desperately, plucking at her shirt and trousers. “He printed them for me! He has hardened logic printers on the other side of that wall. He could win the war!” 
"You tried to be funny about joy and duty," said Miss Dearborn reprovingly; "so of course you didn't succeed." 
"I didn't know you were going to make us read the things out loud," said Rebecca with an embarrassed smile of recollection. 
"Joy and Duty" had been the inspiring subject given to the older children for a theme to be written in five minutes. 
Rebecca had wrestled, struggled, perspired in vain. When her turn came to read she was obliged to confess she had written nothing. 
"You have at least two lines, Rebecca," insisted the teacher, "for I see them on your slate." 
"I'd rather not read them, please; they are not good," pleaded Rebecca. 
"Read what you have, good or bad, little or much; I am excusing nobody." 
Dick Carter's head disappeared under the desk, while Living Perkins choked with laughter. 
Miss Dearborn laughed too; she was little more than a girl, and the training of the young idea seldom appealed to the sense of humor. 
"You must stay after school and try again, Rebecca," she said, but she said it smilingly. "Your poetry hasn't a very nice idea in it for a good little girl who ought to love duty." 
Courtney Polk was probably dead. Maybe I should drop the case and disappear into the woodwork—I didn’t precisely live on the grid anyway; I could get a new set of IDs and head off to a new city, and just let Pithica or anybody else try to track me down. I could leave Steve and his people chasing Dawna Polk, and the police chasing their tails, and Arthur and Checker doing whatever the hell they wanted, and Pithica could keep playing its merry game—I didn’t really care. And screw Courtney. Dawna had hired me to rescue her under false pretenses anyway and hadn’t even paid me. 
The thought of abandoning Courtney gave me a squirmier feeling than anything else. I’d never broken a contract before. My priorities probably proved Tresting’s point about me being a bad person. 
I tried not to think about that either, or what Tresting had said to me. Your first solution is always to pull the trigger... That wasn’t a bad thing, I insisted to myself. It meant I survived, and would keep surviving. I needed to keep reminding myself of that, because Arthur’s words kept echoing in my head, tedious and ugly and irritating. Life is cheap to you... 
“You betrayed us!” My M4 swung to point at Arthur. “You—!” 
Rio placed a cautious hand on my weapon, shifting it off line. “Cas, it isn’t his fault. Dawna Polk did talk to you, didn’t she?” he said to Arthur. 
“I’m sorry,” he said again, wretchedly. “I’m sorry, Russell.” 
I had to restrain myself from hitting him. 
“Give me the phone,” said Rio. He hit a button and held the phone out in front of us, raising his voice slightly. “Go ahead.” 
I recognized Dawna Polk’s mellifluous voice on the speaker immediately. “I must say I’m impressed.” 
Rio was silent. 
“You evaded extensive security measures. We only knew you were here thanks to our friendship with Mr. Tresting.” 
I wanted to scream. 
“I hope you know that is a vast compliment, Mr. Sonrio. We were extremely prepared for your visit, and you still slipped in undetected. Mr. Tresting’s involvement was a contingency we never thought we would have to use. May I ask how you infiltrated us so effectively?” 
“I’m certain you shall figure it out eventually,” said Rio evenly. 
I know just such a clueless person, and his name is Fred Benson, one of three vice-principals at Cesar Chavez. He's a sucking chest wound of a human being. But if you're going to have a jailer, better a clueless one than one who's really on the ball. 
"Marcus Yallow," he said over the PA one Friday morning. The PA isn't very good to begin with, and when you combine that with Benson's habitual mumble, you get something that sounds more like someone struggling to digest a bad burrito than a school announcement. But human beings are good at picking their names out of audio confusion -- it's a survival trait. 
I grabbed my bag and folded my laptop three-quarters shut -- I didn't want to blow my downloads -- and got ready for the inevitable. 
"Report to the administration office immediately." 
My social studies teacher, Ms Galvez, rolled her eyes at me and I rolled my eyes back at her. The Man was always coming down on me, just because I go through school firewalls like wet kleenex, spoof the gait-recognition software, and nuke the snitch chips they track us with. Galvez is a good type, anyway, never holds that against me (especially when I'm helping get with her webmail so she can talk to her brother who's...  gave me a smack on the ass as I walked past. I've known Darryl since we were still in diapers and escaping from play-school, and I've been getting him into and out of trouble the whole time. I raised my arms over my head like a prizefighter and made my exit from Social Studies and began the perp-walk to the office. 
"He died—just before." 
"Oh!" And Rebecca's eyes grew misty. 
"He was a soldier and he died of a gunshot wound, in a hospital, down South." 
"Oh! aunt Jane!" softly. "Away from you?" 
"No, I was with him." 
"Was he young?" 
"Yes; young and brave and handsome, Rebecca; he was Mr. Carter's brother Tom." 
"Oh! I'm so glad you were with him! Wasn't he glad, aunt Jane?" 
Jane looked back across the half-forgotten years, and the vision of Tom's gladness flashed upon her: his haggard smile, the tears in his tired eyes, his outstretched arms, his weak voice saying, "Oh, Jenny! Dear Jenny! I've wanted you so, Jenny!" It was too much! She had never breathed a word of it before to a human creature, for there was no one who would have understood. Now, in a shamefaced way, to hide her brimming eyes, she put her head down on the young shoulder beside her, saying, "It was hard, Rebecca!" 
The Simpson baby had cuddled down sleepily in Rebecca's lap, leaning her head back and sucking her thumb contentedly. Rebecca put her cheek down until it touched her aunt's gray hair and softly patted her, as she said, "I'm sorry, aunt Jane!" 
“You don’t take vacations.” 
“Work’s been slow,” I admitted. The jobs I got paid me more cash than I knew what to do with, but the dead time in between was becoming a problem. “I think...” 
“What’s going on?” 
“No proof, but I think the Lorenzo family might be putting in a bad word here and there. Mama Lorenzo can’t break appearances by coming after me aboveboard, and she might’ve said we were square, but I’ve gotten hints she’s held onto a gallon or so of resentment after last year.” 
“And she’s good at subtle,” Arthur agreed. “Shit. Well, I’m in luck then, ’cause I might have a job for you, and looks like you’re available.” 
“Ha. I don’t need your charity.” 
“Ain’t charity. Client knows I need an assist on this. Your rate’ll be met.” 
I squinted at him, but his face was serious. “You gonna let me work it my way?” 
“Not a chance in hell. You in?” 
“Why not.” It wasn’t like I had anything better to do. 
Arthur’s hand tightened on the edge of the bar. “Before you say yes. Happens I need more than just an extra gun.” 
“Yes—just on the beach.” 
“Oh, I’m so glad!” cried Lexy. “Our old house, where I was born, was on the shore, and on days like this I used to love to go out and walk with father. I love the sea so!” 
Captain Grey gave her an odd look, which she didn’t understand. Perhaps that was just as well, for her words and her voice had troubled the young man to an unreasonable degree. He wished he could say something to comfort her. He wished he could offer her the sea as a gift, for instance; and that would have been a mistake, because Lexy did not like to be pathetic. 
Just at that moment, however, the taxi turned into a driveway, and there was the house—the Tower. Lexy was disappointed. The name had called up in her mind the picture of a gloomy edifice of gray stone, more or less medieval, and altogether somber and forbidding; and this was nothing in the world but a rather shabby old house, badly in need of paint, and forlorn enough in the rain, but very ordinary and very ugly. Even the tower, which had given the place its romantic name, was only a wooden cupola with a lightning rod on top of it. 
Ada had been here, had dropped her phone. To his left, the corridor headed for the fire-stairs. To his right, it led deeper into the mall. If you were an infowar terrorist using this as a base of operations, and you got spooked by a little truant girl being trailed by an R Peed unit, would you take her hostage and run deeper into the mall or out into the world? 
Assuming Ada had been a hostage. Someone had given her those infrared invisibility cloaks. Maybe the thing that spooked the terrorist wasn’t the little girl and her tail, but just her tail. Could Ada have been friends with the terrorists? Like mother, like daughter. He felt dirty just thinking it. 
His first instincts told him that the kidnapper would be long gone, headed cross-country, but if you were invisible to robots and CCTVs, why would you leave the mall? It had a grand total of two human security guards, and their job was to be the second-law-proof aides to the robotic security system. 
He headed deeper into the mall. 
Run into the nearest town and get laid or sucked or jerked off. If a soldier didn't have the money to buy it himself, Ray gave it to him. Because there was something essential in the release, something necessary and clarifying in having someone else do it for you. Someone soft and receptive, someone who maybe just pretended to care, but if you bought it, if you contributed to the illusion, that gave it enough weight to make it real. And when they came back to camp late in the night or early the next morning, their eyes were brighter, 
their steps more firm, their hands less prone to trembling. Scared, yes. They were still scared, but they weren't desperately scared anymore. Getting laid wasn't going to save their lives on the battlefield, but it gave them a perspective that kept them from making the mistakes by which they might kill themselves. 
"I'm not lonely," he says. 
"You are. You just haven't realized it yet. You're lonely for me. Lonely and hungry." 
If he was lonely-if his loneliness was obvious to someone like Emma, someone he'd just met-what did that mean? What mistakes was he making or essential facts was he missing? How was he not thinking clearly about the tasks at hand? 
Sore is my heart and bent my stubborn pride, 
With Lijah and with Lisha am I tied, 
My soul recoyles like Cora Doctor's Wife, 
Like her I feer I cannot bare this life. 
I am going to try for the speling prize but fear I cannot get it. I would not care but wrong speling looks dreadful in poetry. Last Sunday when I found seraphim in the dictionary I was ashamed I had made it serrafim but seraphim is not a word you can guess at like another long one outlandish in this letter which spells itself. Miss Dearborn says use the words you CAN spell and if you cant spell seraphim make angel do but angels are not just the same as seraphims. Seraphims are brighter whiter and have bigger wings and I think are older and longer dead than angels which are just freshly dead and after a long time in heaven around the great white throne grow to be seraphims. 
I sew on brown gingham dresses every afternoon when Emma Jane and the Simpsons are playing house or running on the Logs when their mothers do not know it. Their mothers are afraid they will drown and Aunt M. is afraid I will wet my clothes so will not let me either. I can play from half past four to supper and after supper a little bit and Saturday afternoons. I am glad our cow has a calf and it is spotted. It is going to be a good year for apples and hay so you and John will be glad and we can pay a little more morgage. Miss Dearborn asked us what is the object of edducation and I said the object of mine was to help pay off the morgage. She told Aunt M. and I had to sew extra for punishment because she says a morgage is disgrace like stealing or smallpox and it will be all over town that we have one on our farm. Emma Jane is not morgaged nor Richard Carter nor Dr. Winship but the Simpsons are. 
“No,” Lexy briefly replied. 
“Then he went on. He said he had no more of the drug left, and that he’d have to dispose of me. ‘You know you’re very ill,’ he said. ‘The nurse and that young fool of a doctor agree with me. I think you’re likely to grow worse—very much worse—to-night. You’re very likely to die.’ Oh, Lexy! What could I do but agree? I was shut up—so weak and ill— I knew he could so easily give me something to kill me! He said that if I would make a will and sign it as he told me, he would let me go and be—be myself again. I couldn’t help it! And his wife was dead. It couldn’t do her any harm if I signed her name. He wrote it, and I traced it on another sheet of paper. I had to, Lexy! I knew it was wrong, but what else could I possibly do?” 
“Never mind, Caroline!” said Lexy. “It didn’t do any harm, dear. And then did he let you go?” 
An odd smile came over Caroline’s face. 
“Not exactly,” she said. “After I’d signed the will, leaving him the emerald, he sent away the nurse. Then he came out on the balcony, sat down, and began to talk to me. He was so pleasant and kindly! He made plans for my getting away unnoticed, and brought me some sandwiches and a cup of tea. He said I would have to eat a little, or I wouldn’t have strength enough to go. It was getting dark then, and he couldn’t see my face. I pretended to believe him, but I knew all the time. He kept urging me to hurry up, and to eat the sandwiches and drink the tea. I knew ! I had made the will, and now, of course, I had to die. I tried to think of a way out; and at last, when he saw that I didn’t eat or drink, he spoke out plainly. He said that he had sent the servants away for the afternoon, and that we were alone in the house. He got up; he stood there and looked down at me. 
“I reached her. Told her to lie low. She’s going to her friend’s, Dr. Martinez’s—says she’s safe.” 
“Good.” Well, unless Dr. Martinez was the one responsible for all this, I reminded myself. Fuck. I pushed my fingers against my throbbing temples. The violence was escalating so quickly...“Why wouldn’t they have just killed Halliday in the first place?” 
Arthur flinched. “From what you said about deciphering the math, maybe they knew they might need her. ’Sides, the authorities would investigate a murder. They must’ve figured intimidation would work better.” 
“And if they kill us, it doesn’t connect back to Halliday if no one knows about the proof, because there are a thousand other good reasons people might want one of us dead. Plus maybe killing us intimidates her more,” I said, thinking aloud. A ploy like that could have worked out very well for them, if they hadn’t failed at the killing-us part. “How did they even know she talked to us?” 
“Ain’t no stretch to think they’re watching her. They track my license plate, find out I’m a PI...” 
Then I spotted it. The ribbon cable that connected the keyboard to the logic-board wasn't connected right. That was a weird one. There was no torque on that part, nothing to dislodge it in the course of normal operations. I tried to press it back down again and discovered that the plug wasn't just badly mounted -- there was something between it and the board. I tweezed it out and shone my light on it. 
There was something new in my keyboard. It was a little chunk of hardware, only a sixteenth of an inch thick, with no markings. The keyboard was plugged into it, and it was plugged into the board. It other words, it was perfectly situated to capture all the keystrokes I made while I typed on my machine. 
It was a bug. 
My heart thudded in my ears. It was dark and quiet in the house, but it wasn't a comforting dark. There were eyes out there, eyes and ears, and they were watching me. Surveilling me. The surveillance I faced at school had followed me home, but this time, it wasn't just the Board of Education looking over my shoulder: the Department of Homeland Security had joined them. 
“True. We won’t need to worry much about efficiency or scalability. Quick and dirty will do the job; the question is whether we have enough commonality here to make ‘quick and dirty’ work.” 
“We do,” I said. I had an intuitive grasp of the math already; it was laying itself out in patterns in my brain like beautifully crafted knitwork. “I can tell we do. If you can write the code, I can do the math.” 
“Well—we can try it. But no promises.” 
His reply might not be the resounding enthusiasm I’d hoped for, but at least he’d said yes. “You’ll see. We can do this.” 
Checker cleared his throat. “Cas, pick the phone back up, please.” 
I avoided catching Arthur’s eye as I did so. I levered myself up off the bed, making a face as my wet clothes pulled against my skin and my chest wound twinged, and walked between Arthur and Rio to head over by the windows. “You’ve just got me now,” I said into the phone. 
He came straight to the point. “I can’t trust you. Or Arthur.” 
I didn’t blame him. “So we do this remotely,” I said. “So what?” 
He sighed heavily and folded the note back up to tuck in a pocket. “I’ll bring it to Sonya.” He turned to go, then came back and leaned on the table. “Do me a favor?” 
“I thought I was already doing you one,” I said, not entirely without bitterness. “Isn’t this whole job a favor?” 
He huffed out a breath. “Talk to Checker?” 
Fury clawed up in me, shockingly hot, clogging my head until my scalp prickled with it. 
Arthur twitched back. “Not about that, Russell. Not talking about you. I swear.” 
I clamped my jaw down on what I had been about to say. “What, then?” I growled through my teeth. 
Arthur hesitated, his fingers pressing against the laminated pine of the tabletop. “This thing with the Lancer. Was hard on him.” 
“It was hard on him?” I repeated. “Excuse me, was he shot at and locked up and also almost blown to pieces three separate times?” 
“He could use a friend, ’s all I’m saying.” He made a vague gesture and headed out the door. 
I turned and leaned my head against the wall. Arthur had too high expectations of me, as always. I wasn’t in any condition to be a friend to anyone. I’d never been very good at being a friend to anyone. 
He crouched down again to touch the girl’s wrist, checking for a pulse I knew wouldn’t be there. I looked away. 
The sounds of the street filtered up through the broken window, traffic noise and horns and people going about their days. A light breeze accompanied them, stirring the air in the office and making the cuts on my face start to sting. 
“Thanks,” said Tresting suddenly. 
The word parsed oddly, as if I were listening to a foreign language speaker say something and knew it wasn’t coming out the way he intended. “Sure,” I said. 
Tresting stood back up and regarded me with a slight frown, as if I were a puzzle with a new twist. “They would’ve killed me,” he said. “This neighborhood, cops would’ve been too slow.” 
“Yeah,” I agreed. 
“I ain’t...thanks,” he said again. 
I looked around the ruined office. Depression had neatly replaced the smugness. “They’re kids,” I whispered. Maybe I was the monster he thought I was after all. “They’re kids.” 
“I know,” he said heavily, and it sounded like he did. 
She shook her head. "You never give out your passwords, Marcus." 
"I don't think it matters anymore. Either you succeed or I -- or it's the end of Marcus Yallow. Maybe I'll get a new identity, but I don't think so. I think they'll catch me. I guess I've known all along that they'd catch me, some day." 
She looked at me, furious now. "What a waste. What was it all for, anyway?" 
Of all the things she could have said, nothing could have hurt me more. It was like another kick in the stomach. What a waste, all of it, futile. Darryl and Ange, gone. I might never see my family again. And still, Homeland Security had my city and my country caught in a massive, irrational shrieking freak-out where anything could be done in the name of stopping terrorism. 
Van looked like she was waiting for me to say something, but I had nothing to say to that. She left me there. 
Zeb had a pizza for me when I got back "home" -- to the tent under a freeway overpass in the Mission that he'd staked out for the night. He had a pup tent, military surplus, stenciled with SAN FRANCISCO LOCAL HOMELESS COORDINATING BOARD. 
"Oh, she's your favorite, isn't she?" Trish asked, goosing Damian's bicep and taking a sip of his peach ginger-ade. The pundit had been in heavy rotation since the TV went back on the air. She was a Norwegian academic mathematician who wrote books of popular philosophy. She was a collection of trademark affectations: a jacket with built-up shoulders, a monocle, a string tie, nipple tassels, and tattooed cross-hatching on her face that made her look like a woodcut of a Victorian counting-house clerk. Damian loathed her -- she'd been on the committee to which he'd defended his Philosophy of Networks thesis, and she'd busted his balls so hard that they still ached a decade later when he saw her on the tube. 
The pundit explained the packet-switching, using trains versus automobiles as a metaphor: "In a circuit uniwerse, every communication gets its own dedicated line, like a train on a track. Ven I vant to talk to you, ve build a circuit -- a train track -- betveen our dewices. No one else can use those tracks, even if ve're not talking. But packet-svitching is like a freevay. Ve break the information up into packets and ve give every packet its own little car, and it finds its own vay to the other end. If vun car doesn't arrive, ve make a copy of its information and send it again. The cars have brakes and steering veels, and so they can all share the same road vithout too much trouble." 
I opened and closed my mouth a couple times. "Van, I'm not the problem, they are. I'm not arresting people, jailing them, making them disappear. The Department of Homeland Security are the ones doing that. I'm fighting back to make them stop." 
"How, by making it worse?" 
"Maybe it has to get worse to get better, Van. Isn't that what you were saying? If everyone was getting pulled over --" 
"That's not what I meant. I didn't mean you should get everyone arrested. If you want to protest, join the protest movement. Do something positive. Didn't you learn anything from Darryl? Anything? " 
"You're damned right I did," I said, losing my cool. "I learned that they can't be trusted. That if you're not fighting them, you're helping them. That they'll turn the country into a prison if we let them. What did you learn, Van? To be scared all the time, to sit tight and keep your head down and hope you don't get noticed? You think it's going to get better? If we don't do anything, this is as good as it's going to get . It will only get worse and worse from now on. You want to help Darryl? Help me bring them down!" 
She held up her left hand and shook it in his face. “An addict! Is that what you think?” Her middle finger and little finger on that hand had never bent properly in all of Valentine’s memory, and when Valentine had asked her about it, she’d said the terrible word knucklebreakers which was the old name for the police. “You think I’m addicted to this ? Harald, honor and courage and patriotism are virtues no matter that you would make them into vices and shame our children with your cowardice. I go to fight now, Harald, and it’s for all of us.” 
Popa couldn’t find another word to speak in the two seconds it took for Mata to give her two children hard kisses on the foreheads and slam out the door, and then it was Valentine and Popa and Trover, still screaming. Her father fisted the tears out of his eyes, not bothering to try to hide them, and said, “Well then, who wants pancakes?” 
But the power was out and he had to make them cereal instead. 
Two weeks after the siege began, her mother didn’t come home and the city came for her father. 
He was gone for a moment, then reappeared carrying a long metal tube that looked to be emitting white vapor. He next opened yet another ersatz stone cabinet to reveal a mi­croscope with a CRT screen above it. He took out three glass ampules from the tube—frozen embryos, undoubtedly—and placed them in a container. When he switched on the micro­scope, its CRT screen showed him whatever he needed to know. Interesting. In surgery, he was coldly efficient, no "hu­man touch." Here he was the "scientist" Alex Goddard. 
Next, Marcelina activated an ultrasound scanner and be­gan running the wand over the woman's stomach. The screen above the table showed her uterus and her Fallopian tubes with flickering clarity. 
He'd been readying the embryos, and now he walked over and carefully inserted a needle into the woman's abdomen— ouch—his eyes on the ultrasound scan, which indicated the precise location of the needle's tip. 
I watched as the screen showed the needle on its way to its destination, a thin, hard line amidst the pulsing gray mass of her uterus. Seconds later all three embryos had been im­planted with such flawless precision it was scary. 
The sobs that came then didn't sound like my voice. They sounded like an animal noise, maybe a donkey or some kind of big cat noise in the night. I sobbed so my throat burned and ached with it, so my chest heaved. 
Mom took me in her arms, the way she used to when I was a little boy, and she stroked my hair, and she murmured in my ear, and rocked me, and gradually, slowly, the sobs dissipated. 
I took a deep breath and Mom got me a glass of water. I sat on the edge of my bed and she sat in my desk chair and I told her everything. 
Everything. 
Well, most of it. 
At first Mom looked shocked, then outraged, and finally she gave up altogether and just let her jaw hang open as I took her through the interrogation, pissing myself, the bag over my head, Darryl. I showed her the note. 
"Why --?" 
In that single syllable, every recrimination I'd dealt myself in the night, every moment that I'd lacked the bravery to tell the world what it was really about, why I was really fighting, what had really inspired the Xnet. 
“I’ve been thinking a good deal about that very thing lately,” she replied. “I believe feelings like that are a warning. I’m sure it’s wrong—foolish and wrong—to disregard them. Even if every one else, even if your own mind tells you it’s all nonsense, you mustn’t care!” 
“I think you’re right,” he gravely agreed. “I’ve been trying to tell myself that I’m an utter ass, but all the time I knew I wasn’t. I knew—I know now—that there’s something—” 
An unreasoning dread possessed Lexy. She felt for a moment that she didn’t want to hear any more. 
“I’d like to tell you about it, if you wouldn’t mind,” he said. “Somehow I think you could help.” 
For an instant she hesitated. 
“Please do tell me,” she said at length. “I’d be glad to help, if I can.” 
“It’s this,” he said. “Do you mind if I smoke? Thanks!” 
He took a cigarette case from his pocket. As he struck a match, she could see his face very clearly in the sudden flame; and, for no reason at all, she pitied him. 
“It’s this,” he said again. “It’s about my sister.” 
“Sorry.” 
I almost followed up with “Has anyone told you your kitchen could be listed on the EPA website as a dangerous toxic waste site?” but because of Wilson, I kept it to myself. 
“How old are you?” 
I started to say something, then for some reason told the her truth. “nineteen.” 
“Shouldn’t you be in school?” 
“I go to an alternative school. It’s all self-paced. Besides, school let out already.” 
She sipped her tea, then seemed annoyed that it fogged up her glasses and she had wipe them off with a handkerchief. “So, your brother was arrested on terrorism charges?” she finally said. 
“Bogus terrorism charges. There’s video of it online.” I pulled out my phone, found the clip that was making the rounds on YouTube, then handed it over to her. 
She squinted, turned it on its side. “What am I supposed to do with this?” 
“Push the little arrow.” 
She pushed it, lowered it into her lap, then tried looking at it from under her glasses, as if trying to sneak up on it. “The screen’s far too small.” 
When the interview began to wind down, losing its punch, I suggested we call it a day. With the time pushing two o'clock, I wanted to get the film to the lab, get it developed, and take a look at the rushes. I also had a doctor's appoint­ment, not to mention a meeting with David to bring him up to speed on what I was doing. But surely he was going to be pleased. The interview, with Carly's honest intensity, would give the picture spine and guts. Just as I'd hoped. 
You could always tell by the reaction of the crew. Even Roger Drexel, who usually hid his thoughts somewhere in his scraggly beard, was letting his eyes sparkle behind his Panaflex. Scott was also grinning as he struck the lights and Cafiero ripped up the power lines, now taped to the floor. Everybody was in wrap mode, flushed with a great shoot. 
I followed Carly into the kitchen, where Marcy was feed­ing Kevin some Gerber applesauce. The time had come, I thought, to spring the next big question, out of earshot of the crew. 
"Of course you don't. Men have no interest in the careers of women! But I know Rebecca better than you." 
"You understand her mind better, but not necessarily her heart. You are considering her for the moment as prodigy; I am thinking of her more as pearl." 
"Well," sighed Miss Maxwell whimsically, "prodigy or pearl, the Randall Protective Agency may pull Rebecca in opposite directions, but nevertheless she will follow her saint." 
"That will content me," said Adam gravely. 
"Particularly if the saint beckons your way." And Miss Maxwell looked up and smiled provokingly. 
Rebecca did not see her aunt Miranda till she had been at the brick house for several days. Miranda steadily refused to have any one but Jane in the room until her face had regained its natural look, but her door was always ajar, and Jane fancied she liked to hear Rebecca's quick, light step. Her mind was perfectly clear now, and, save that she could not move, she was most of the time quite free from pain, and alert in every nerve to all that was going on within or without the house. "Were the windfall apples being picked up for sauce; were the potatoes thick in the hills; was the corn tosselin' out; were they cuttin' the upper field; were they keepin' fly-paper laid out everywheres; were there any ants in the dairy; was the kindlin' wood holdin' out; had the bank sent the cowpons?" 
I remembered to switch off the camera, finally, and looked around for a weapon. There was a can of Axe I could spray into his eyes. If I broke the spotty mirror over the sink, I might be able to pull out a shard to stab him with. I could probably find a knife in the kitchen but I was too scared to unlock the door. 
“Baaaaybee . . . “ His blurry voice faded. I held the spray can so tight my hand hurt, listening, half expecting him to wrench the door open and grab me. I waited. Then I waited some more. 
When the record finished playing and everything was quiet I finally opened the door. I found a knife beside the sink and held it and the spray can as I went through to the room where he was curled up on the bed. I watched him. He didn’t move. When I nudged him with the toe of my boot, it felt like I was poking a sandbag. 
I started to breathe again. I stepped across the room, set down the can, unbolted the door, and grabbed my bag and coat. I was standing outside on the porch, still holding the knife, when the cold air seemed to clear away the fog in my head. I remembered why I had come to his apartment in the first place. My feet felt as if they were weighted with lead as I stepped back inside. 
Then one of the matched set smacked his head. “Oh my god. 
You’re Shad.” 
I teetered on the edge of denying it. But I finally nodded, feel- ing sick. Feeling stabby. Feeling like I’d just busted something pre- cious that could never be glued back together. 
“Wow. It’s so great to meet you. We just didn’t . . .” He looked around. “I’m sorry. For some reason I always assumed . . .” 
Another one finished the sentence he couldn’t seem to com- plete. “We didn’t know you were a girl.” 
It had all started the previous day with an encrypted message: <wheeze> Your brother just got busted. 
A photo was attached, showing a familiar ramshackle house in the middle of the block, Wilson’s bike chained to the porch railing next to pots full of plants that had died because nobody remembered to take them inside when it got cold. In front of the house, there was a traffic jam of police cars. A herd of big guys in windbreakers with letters on them were standing around looking muscular and mean, somehow swaggering even though they were standing still. There was also a mean-looking woman with a pony- tail sticking out of her hat. A hat that said FBI on it. 
“Oh, my dear!” she cried impulsively, and held out her arms. 
Mrs. Quelton rose. She came toward Lexy, her hands outstretched—when a sudden cry from Mrs. Royce arrested her. 
“But that ain’t Mrs. Quelton!” cried the landlady. 
If Lexy had not caught the unhappy woman, she would have fallen; but those sturdy young arms held her, and, with Mrs. Royce’s help, they got her on the bed. White as a ghost, incredibly frail in her black dress, she lay there, scarcely seeming to breathe. 
“It ain’t Mrs. Quelton!” repeated Mrs. Royce, in a whisper. 
“I know!” said Lexy softly. “Will you get me water and a towel, please?” 
Mrs. Royce went out of the room, and Lexy knelt down beside the bed. She did know now—the woman whom they had all called Muriel Quelton was really Caroline Enderby. 
Lexy did not blame herself for not having known before. Looking at that face now, in its terrible stillness, she could trace the familiar features easily enough, but how changed! How worn and lined, how old ! The brows, the lashes, the soft, disordered hair, were black now instead of brown; but that merely physical alteration was of no significance, compared with that other awful change. It was Caroline Enderby, the gentle and pitifully inexperienced girl of nineteen, but it was Mrs. Quelton, too, that tragic and somber figure. 
Emma, I was a Marine. Or I am a Marine. They don't actually let us retire, you know. They just put us on indefinite hiatus." 
"And you served bravely in the desert, yes? Like all the other good Midwestern boys?" 
"I did." 
"You were no doubt very brave." 
"No. The brave are the ones who come back in bags. I'm just feisty and clever and stubborn. Like a camel. 
The best way to survive in a hostile environment is always to emulate the natives. " 
"I'd rather imagine you as brave and lucky than camelish. A Lawrence of Arabia romance. " She tilts her head toward him. "Does it bother you to talk about the desert?" 
"Not in generalities." Which is true enough. "Generalities are better, in fact, if you want to keep your illusions of romance." 
"But it was exciting, wasn't it?" 
He laughs without humor. "In the military, excitement is a dirty word. We avoid all things exciting if possible." 
"I don't believe that. I think your life must have been very exciting, but you don't want to tell me." 
“Tell me what?” asked Mrs. Enderby. “Come, if you please, Miss Moran! Tell me at once!” 
“Caroline’s gone.” 
The words were spoken. Lexy waited in great alarm, wondering if Mrs. Enderby would faint or scream. 
The lady did neither. She came out into the corridor, shutting the door of her room behind her, and her first word and her only word was: “Hush!” 
Then she glanced about her at the closed doors, and, taking Lexy’s arm in a firm grip, hurried her to Caroline’s room. Not until they were shut in there did she speak again. 
“Now tell me!” she said. “Speak very low. You said—Caroline has gone?” 
“Yes,” said Lexy. “I came in here after you’d gone to bed, and—you can see for yourself—the bed hasn’t been slept in. She’s taken her things—her brush and comb and—” 
“And she told you—what?” 
“Me? Why, nothing!” answered Lexy, in surprise. “I didn’t see her. I haven’t seen her since dinner.” 
“But you know,” said Mrs. Enderby. “You know where she has gone.” 
She spoke with cool certainty, and her black eyes were fixed upon Lexy with a far from pleasant expression. 
She clicked off the phone and looked up with startled eyes. "It was somebody who said they worked for Children of Light. She wanted to know if you'd contacted me." Her face collapsed. "You. She asked me specifically about you . By name. How did—?" 
"I have no idea." My hands were growing cold. Had Carly told them about me? Why would she do that? "Anyway, you handled it okay." 
Which made me wonder. If Children of Light was such a perfect organization, why was Paula so frightened she immediately felt compelled to lie, to swear she hadn't broken their rules? 
"Right." Her composure was slowly coming back. "Look, now that I think about it, why should they care? It doesn't make any sense. They got their money." She turned to me. "Let me have that release." 
She seized the paper and endorsed it with a flourish. 
My pulse was still in overdrive, but I hugged her, then signaled the crew that shooting was over for the day. 
"Okay, everybody. Time to wrap." 
The gang immediately began striking the lights and rolling up electrical cords. They would take the equipment back downtown and deliver the film to the lab, while I would head home. It had been a long day and lots of thinking was needed. Besides, it was starting to rain, a dismal spatter against Paula's grimy windows, as the gray spring afternoon had begun darkening toward sullen evening. 
> San Francisco. 
This was starting to feel familiar. 
> Where in San Francisco? 
I logged out. There was something weird going on in the game. I jumped onto the livejournals and began to crawl from blog to blog. I got through half a dozen before I found something that froze my blood. 
Livejournallers love quizzes. What kind of hobbit are you? Are you a great lover? What planet are you most like? Which character from some movie are you? What's your emotional type? They fill them in and their friends fill them in and everyone compares their results. Harmless fun. 
The quizzes plotted the results on a map with colored pushpins for schools and neighborhoods, and made lame recommendations for places to buy pizza and stuff. 
But look at those questions. Think about my answers: Male, Chavez High, Potrero Hill. 
There were only two people in my whole school who matched that profile. Most schools it would be the same. If you wanted to figure out who the Xnetters were, you could use these quizzes to find them all. 
She was cried out, and weak from hunger, and she understood what was coming next when he threw her down and grabbed the collar of her shirt and ripped it away from her, then gave her bra the same treatment. She was dazed from the knocks on the head, but she knew what was coming. 
Valentine’s mother was a soldier. She’d been taught to kill. She’d taught Valentine to kill. Valentine never left the house without a clasp-knife, the knife she’d taken from the corpse she’d thrown out a fifteenth storey window some unknowable time before. 
The knife was in her back pocket. She watched the boy’s silhouette work at the fastener of his trousers, while she stole a hand behind her and slowly, slowly took out the knife. She let herself make silent choking dazed sounds. 
She knew what was coming next, but the boy didn’t. 
But as he knelt down and reached out for the snap on her trousers, she showed him what was next. She took two of his fingers and just missed opening her own belly. He tried to jerk his arm away, but she had him by the wrist before he could, and she pulled him down on top of her, making sure that her knife was free of the clinch, free to slip around behind him and take him once-twice-three time in between his ribs, then again into his kidneys. Seeing the splatted corpses she tossed out of windows had given her a very keen idea of how anatomy worked. 
“Yeah. It’s just . . .” She brushed a hand across the sleeping baby’s hair. “Men, you know?” 
“Totally.” Actually, I didn’t know. 
“I mean, Danny’s a sweet guy. He just doesn’t get how big a responsibility it is to raise a child.” 
really he does.” She made it sound as if we were arguing about it. “It’s just . . . being involved in this scene is really important to him.” 
“Being committed to radical change is cool.” 
She shrugged. “He likes being important. I just wish we could get a place of our own. What are you doing here, anyway?” 
“I have to help my brother.” 
“By hanging out with them?” She snorted. “That guy, Simon. 
Are you together?” 
“No. I just asked him if I could come to the meeting.” 
“Is that what they’re calling it, a meeting? They sure love to talk, anyway.” She reached down, picked up beer bottle, shook it side to side, then set it down murmuring sadly “all gone” as if she was talking to the sleeping baby. “If the police come here and see us living in this dump and decide to jam us up . . . That’s what scares me the most.” She twirled a lock of the baby’s hair and wiped her eyes again. “If they took him away, I don’t know what I’d do.” 
“I know that,” I cut in. “I’m not an idiot. Skip to the ‘how’ part.” 
“High-altitude nuclear detonation is probably the easiest way,” said Checker. 
I felt dazed. “Easiest?” 
“Clearly you’re not up on your right-wing nut job blogs,” said Checker. “One high-altitude nuke could take out all the electronics in the United States. The good news is, no loss to human life, except of course for all of the countless people who are depending on medical electronics to keep them kicking—” 
“Cars,” I said. “What about cars?” 
“I don’t—I don’t know. Most cars are computerized these days—older ones might have a better chance? I don’t know—” 
“We need to get out of the radius,” I said. “Checker, you’ve been backing up in the cloud, right? If we can get to a place that’s not fried, will the network be—” 
“Distributed computing, it should be fine, well, depending on how much they took out—what if they have taken out the whole country?” Checker’s voice had gone very high. 
“Would they?” I wondered. “They’re all about helping people. And last they knew we were still in LA. Plus, if they got provoked into this by what Steve’s group did and tracked it back to them—” 
There would be no question of walking for many a month to come, but blessings seemed to multiply when the blinds could be opened and the bed drawn near the window; when mother, with pillows behind her, could at least sit and watch the work going on, could smile at the past agony and forget the weary hours that had led to her present comparative ease and comfort. 
No girl of seventeen can pass through such an ordeal and come out unchanged; no girl of Rebecca's temperament could go through it without some inward repining and rebellion. She was doing tasks in which she could not be fully happy,—heavy and trying tasks, which perhaps she could never do with complete success or satisfaction; and like promise of nectar to thirsty lips was the vision of joys she had had to put aside for the performance of dull daily duty. How brief, how fleeting, had been those splendid visions when the universe seemed open for her young strength to battle and triumph in! How soon they had faded into the light of common day! At first, sympathy and grief were so keen she thought of nothing but her mother's pain. No consciousness of self interposed between her and her filial service; then, as the weeks passed, little blighted hopes began to stir and ache in her breast; defeated ambitions raised their heads as if to sting her; unattainable delights teased her by their very nearness; by the narrow line of separation that lay between her and their realization. It is easy, for the moment, to tread the narrow way, looking neither to the right nor left, upborne by the sense of right doing; but that first joy of self-denial, the joy that is like fire in the blood, dies away; the path seems drearier and the footsteps falter. 
From a ways away, and goddamned hard to hear. I turned the volume on the phone all the way up, but the ringing in my ears was still too bad for me to focus past it. 
I needed an amplifier....  on the floor of the passenger side of my new ride and picked it up. A few rips and a twist and I had something that would bounce my sound waves into constructive interference. I tore a slot in the base and slid it over the phone’s speaker, then held the mouth of my makeshift amplifier up to my ear. 
“...ain’t gonna let you go,” came Arthur’s voice, quiet and inexorable. 
“You’re fucked up, man. You’re fucked in the head. You really wanna die for this?” 
“I ain’t walking away.” 
Checker was prone to asking far too many questions, but he knew an emergency when he saw one. Thirteen seconds later I had the freeway exit for a nearby hospital. 
Hospital security is effectively nonexistent. At least when it comes to someone like me. I was lifting away from the roof helipad into a darkening sky before anyone registered I was stealing from them. 
“And I want to be able to speak freely where we do this,” I said. “No spying; I mean it. I’ll bring the tech to check.” 
“Don’t think that’s unreasonable,” said Arthur. “Anything else important?” 
Halliday handed him the list. “I believe we’ve covered it.” 
The only thing the Feds refused was us hanging onto a copy of the proof—they claimed they didn’t trust us to keep it secure. I pointed out that, considering it was still missing and uncontained, Halliday was going to be helping them propagate security overhauls everywhere anyway. They pointed out in turn that the security overhaul meant we wouldn’t be a threat to them and we therefore had no need for leverage. 
I didn’t like it, but considering I’d be able to write the whole damn thing out myself afterward without them being able to stop me, I let it slide. I wasn’t too happy they wouldn’t know I was capable of releasing the proof—that was the point of leverage, after all—but maybe I could tell them later. 
The Feds set up a safe house for Halliday in the mountains. It was some sort of abandoned estate, old but clean and in good repair. The NSA set up shop at a respectful distance, controlling access to the house. We’d been able to dictate that Arthur and I would have the freedom to move in and out—either a mark of how irrelevant they thought we were or how over a barrel we had them; I wasn’t sure which. Halliday herself wasn’t allowed to leave until we had finished, and after that we would set up new provisions for her protection. But right now all anyone was concerned about was getting her proof on paper. 
“He can’t have family members visit?” 
“Unlikely, at this point. We’re making arrangements to rep- resent all of the young people who were arrested, except for the informant, who has his own lawyer. Since he won’t be talking to us we’ll need to do some research on him.” 
“I’ll start working on that.” 
“You seem confused by what I mean when I say ‘we.’ We’ll have our investigators work on it, though we won’t have anything like the resources of the Justice Department. It’ll take time.” 
“We don’t have time. I want Wilson out of there. Jail’s no place for him. He’s been there overnight a few times, but he’s still like, a total noob.” 
“ A . . . what?” 
“He’s clueless. It’s not a safe place for him. You guys focus on the law stuff. I’ll find out who Zip really is.” 
“And how exactly do you propose to do that?” 
“Uh, I probably shouldn’t go into detail.” 
She looked past me at her computer’s sleek new Ubuntu desk- top, and her expression changed from superior and skeptical to “Oh,” like she just realized that I had skills, that I probably hacked into banks or NSA databases all the time, which I wouldn’t even try. Like I said before, I’m sure I’d be better at jail than Wilson, but I don’t want to find out. Ever. 
Only, to her, it did not seem natural, that one little light shining out through the glass of the front door. It would be more natural, she thought, if there were only the darkness and the sound of the sea. 
They turned into the drive. Their footsteps sounded strangely and terribly loud on the gravel, and became as sharp as pistol shots when they mounted the veranda. The captain rang the bell, and the sound of it ran through the house like a shudder; but no one came. He rang again and again, but nothing stirred inside the house. He knocked on the glass, and they waited, looking into the bright and empty hall; but no one came. 
Captain Grey turned the knob, the door opened, and they went in. The door of the library was open, showing only darkness. The stairs ran up into darkness. Nothing moved, nothing stirred. Then, suddenly, a little breeze rose, and the front door slammed with a crash behind them. Lexy cried out, and caught the young man’s arm. 
“Don’t be afraid!” he said; but his face was ashen. For a moment they stood where they were. “Miss Moran,” he went on, “would you rather wait here while I go upstairs?” 
Tell Buddy he doesn't have to keep on calling me to say thanks. I'm just glad that he and Carla are all right. Tell him to enjoy his promotion! 
When I got to the office this morning, I found Rhindquist wearing his old-fashioned pusher's uniform. I hadn't seen it since the day we met. I was surprised by how normal he looked in it: he could have been any pusher. 
"Well, aren't you dressed for success?" I asked him ironically. 
He spun around and said, "I've got something new. For three of the days that you're here, I'll be on a truck with Vasquez. You fill in for me, take any calls, handle any business. Order up some movies. We'll meet up on the fourth day here and I'll answer any questions you have. If something urgent comes up, give me a call." 
I felt a little out of my depth, but I wanted to demonstrate my take-charge attitude to Rhindquist, so I smiled and said, "Can-do, boss! Knock 'em dead!" 
Tony came in and snorted a snide laugh at Rhindquist. Rhindquist raised an eyebrow at me, and I took the hint. "What are you smirking at, mister?" I barked, like my old Sarge. "You find something amusing about the official uniform of a representative of this organization?" 
"Yes, Sean?" 
"Ethan was in maintenance mode. He was switched off. He said 'Yes,' because his subroutines didn't want to be any trouble. You know that, right?" 
"Oh, that foolishness again! Ethan's a good boy , is all. He remembers my birthday and Mother's Day, every year." 
"Subroutines, Adele," Sean said, straining to keep an inexplicable anger out of his voice. 
"Humph! Subroutines!" 
"Adele, He's a walking coma. He's been switched off for so long, all you're talking to is a goddamn chip , he's not a goddamn person anymore. None of them are. My goddamn Grampa 's spent three-quarters of his goddamn life away . He's either an angry old bastard, or he's a goddamn zombie . You know that , right?" 
"Sean, you're very upset," Adele said. "Why don't you have a nice lie-down, and we'll talk in the morning. I can't wait to meet your father!" 
Sean stalked off to his room and tried to record some field notes while flipping around in the weird, poky corners of the motel's cable system, Japanese game-shows and Hindu religious epics. He smoked half a cigarette, drank half a beer, tried to masturbate, and finally, slept. 
“Ms. Russell,” she said, nodding at me. She had a paper cup of punch in her hand. There were refreshments inside, which I’d passed on in favor of the flask in my pocket and the cocktail of narcotics I was still on. 
“Agent Jones,” I answered. I didn’t know or care what she wanted. I felt detached from everything. Numb. 
“I just want you to know, um...” She glanced behind her and straightened her jacket. It was very odd behavior. I watched blandly. “I want you to know, I worked with one of you before, and you don’t have to worry. Whatever holes there have been in you and your colleagues’ stories, I took care of it on our end.” 
I opened my mouth, but she held up a hand to forestall me. 
“I know you can’t confirm it, and that’s okay. I just didn’t want you to worry. I started taking care of everything as soon as I realized. I understand how hard it can be when you’re working alone with no resources.” She straightened and gave me a sharp nod, almost as if she wanted to salute. I felt faintly ridiculous. “If you need anything else, just let me know.” 
"What did he mean about the children?" 
But she shakes her head. "Thank you for breakfast, Ray. I had a good time." 
"Emma-" 
Does he hit you ? This is what he means to ask, what he should be asking, but even the bare thought of it makes him feel violent. But in the space between words, she slips close to him. Her small hands pull his face to hers and she kisses his lips, cool and dry and hungry. 
Without another word, she's gone. 
The rest of his day is spent the way most of days pass on Paraclete. Ziggy rides him for duty failures that may or may not be legitimate or even vaguely associated with his own personal fault, then tells him Nina has packed along some lasagna from last night's dinner that he can have as long as he promises to remember to get the dish back to her. He makes two retrievals of malfunctioning drones. He performs some perfunctory upgrades to the drone system control frame. Around this, he codes new search parameters into the drones' surveillance routines, uploads a dozen petaflops of gathered surveillance data for pattern searches and anomalous chemical traces from the rat network's latest security sweep, trying to skew all his available resources in a clever and anonymous enough way that the other systems vets won't notice that he's been tinkering with the rats, and on the chance that they do notice, won't suspect it's anything but a buggy command sequence and definitely won't trace it back to him. 
Whiston Corp., he means. "That could be." 
"You brought samples?" 
"I'm afraid I couldn't show them to you. The design specs are extremely confidential, at the request of the client." 
Shue raises his hands between them, an I'm not trying to pry gesture. "Hey, that's cool. Fair enough. Just sort of a hobby of mine. " 
Of course, digging up clandestine negotiation details is a hobby they all seem to have in common. Corporate espionage is the currency of the young up-and-comer. 
But Shue goes on, lowering his voice. "I just find it interesting that the big W is moving in on territory it already has a proprietary interest in, if you know what I mean. The Board has been pretty aggressive, it seems to me, in dealing with the New H branch as it is, at least if you pay attention to the types of signs guys like us look at. Could be a strong move to entice Whelemat back into the fold, especially since they didn't have to use their own capital investments for the grunt work. " 
"Yes," Rodriguez agrees, though he has no idea what it means. 
This was the man whose staff was trying to deny me in­terviews with mothers who'd adopted through Children of Light. And what about the Hispanic hood with the gun? Did Alex Goddard send him? If not, his appearance at Paula's building was one hell of a coincidence. So why should I trust . . . 
That was when I noticed it. My lingering cold had mi­raculously vanished, inflamed sinuses and all. I was breath­ing normally, and even my chest felt cleared. 
My God, I thought, what did he do? Hypnotize me? It was as though a week's healing had passed through my body. 
I had an epiphany, a moment that galvanizes your resolve. I had to do a documentary about this man, to find out what he was really up to. He'd mentioned he had a place in Central America. Was that the source of his special techniques, some kind of ancient Meso-American medical practices he'd dis­covered? 
He claimed he didn't want any publicity, but that's always just an opening move. When somebody says that, what they really mean is they don't want any bad publicity; they just want to have final say about what you produce. There're ways to handle the problem. 
Marcella ordered us to assemble in the main lobby in exactly one hour to report. She beckoned Dave to follow her to the medieval art section. We could hear her mechanical voice droning away as they disappeared into the distance. ...  
We hiked to a...  a table in a corner where we could talk. I told him all about Zip and the cops who’d come to our apartment and tried to throw their weight around. I told him how worried I was about Wheeze. I almost slipped up and told him about what the Group had dug up on Zip’s identity and the FBI agent he worked with, but I remem- bered just in time to make it sound like research I had done myself. I like Nikko a lot, but the Group is private. 
I ended up talking about Wilson, too, the way he used to take care of me when I was little and how much I had wanted to go with him when he turned eighteen. “I understand it now. He wanted to have fun and hang out with his friends. Having a little kid around . . . I get it, but at the time I was so angry. It was never the same after that. He had his life. I had the internet. By the time I moved in with Monica we didn’t have that much in common anymore. 
“You got his whole life story, huh?” There was a kind of coiled violence in the way Danny spoke that sent a shiver down my spine. 
“Yeah, so?” She fixed eyes with him for a moment and then looked away. “I’m going to put the kid to bed.” She hauled herself up, picked up the baby and a bottle of beer and headed for the stairs. 
Tweak started talking about actions he had participated in and Danny bragged about setting cars on fire during a protest. Simon, 
not to be outdone, ranted about police brutality and I threw in a speech of my own about mass surveillance. I checked my phone every now and then. I ignored the missed calls and message noti- fications and only paid attention to the time. When I’d been there for nearly two hours, I asked where the bathroom was. I needed to download the video I’d shot before the memory ran out. 
I went up the stairs and paused by an open door. Marita was sitting on a bed next the baby, rubbing his back and humming, 
even though the kid was totally conked out. 
Checker was at my shoulder immediately. “Where?” 
I didn’t know how to do any sort of fancy computer highlighting, so I traced a rough circle against the monitor with my finger, ignoring it when Checker cringed. He didn’t like people touching his screens. “It disappeared into this area almost half an hour ago and hasn’t come out.” 
“Are you sure? There’s no way it could’ve—?” 
I glared at him, and he shut up. 
“Okay, I get it, you’re sure. Two possibilities, then: their base is in the zone, or they switched vehicles. Can you run the security footage on the border of your zone forward and—never mind, I’ll do it,” he said hastily, at my blank look. He started punching keys. “You know, you could learn to do this stuff in about three seconds if you gave half a crap.” 
I didn’t answer. Checker and I drank and watched bad movies together fairly regularly when I wasn’t avoiding him. It was stupid to think I wouldn’t see him anymore if I didn’t need him for the computer junk. 
Stupid. 
“It’s a bit of a long shot, but we can put together a likely vehicle list crossing the boundary,” Checker said absently, his focus on the screen. “Most cars that exit within the right window will be registered to people statistically unlikely to be involved, especially as stealing one would probably put our bad guys on the police radar more quickly and conspicuously. I’m skeptical this will work, though—I’m betting it’s not a coincidence they stopped out of view of any security cameras. These guys are very good at staying hidden.” 
"Good thing we're not in love, then, right?" she said, in reference to their sixth date, when they'd decided that they would hold off on any declarations of love for at least an entire year, since they were most often moved to utter the Three Words of Significance when they were besotted with e.g. post-orgasmic brain-juice or a couple of cocktails. 
"Yes, counselor." 
She shook her head. He knew she was an academic, not a practicing lawyer, but he loved to tease her about it, ever since she'd revealed (after third date, on the phone) that she'd spent about ten seconds in private practice after she'd worked for her congressman and before she'd joined the faculty at UCLA. 
"You're out of order," she said. 
"This whole damned car is out of order!" he said. "So that's the ritual. You said you wanted to meet the parents and sisters and aunts and grandmothers and cousins and uncles and nephews and in-laws the next time we all got together. This is it." 
"Right," she said. "I asked for this." And she had, of course. Hadn't asked for the graveside elements, but she'd been curious to meet this big sprawling enterprise of a family that he was always nattering on about. This seemed as good an occasion as any. "So," she said. "Is this a traditional date among Your People?" 
“Pleased to make your acquaintance, Withnail,” she said in his language, another useful phrase culled from the cine, though she suspected she was pronouncing it all wrong. She held out her hand to shake his. He holstered his handgun and shook her hand. 
“I have to go, Withnail.” She couldn’t say this in his language, but she spoke slowly and as clearly as she could. 
He shook his head again. She covered his hand on her arm with her own and gave it a squeeze. 
“To save my family,” she said. “I’m on a mission for your side anyway. Let me go, Withnail.” She gave his hand another squeeze. Slowly, he released her arm. 
He was very handsome, she saw now, with a good chin and sensuous lips. She’d never kissed a boy and she’d be dead in four days and a little more. Or maybe she’d be dead that afternoon, if she couldn’t get back into her own trenches. 
She put her hand on the back of his neck and pulled his face to hers and gave him a dry, hard kiss on those pouting lips. It made her blood sing, and she gave him a hug, too, pressing her body to him. He kissed her back after a moment, surprised. His tongue probed at her closed lips and she pulled away, then for a crazy moment she thought of biting him and giving him a dose of zombiism to spread to his comrades in the trenches with him. But that wouldn’t be right. They were friends now. 
where she was jotting notes on a big yellow pad, holding a tele- phone receiver pressed to her ear. I waited as the pen flowed across the paper. She had filled the page with orderly lines. Her handwriting was old-fashioned, all the letters linked together in a flowing line of blue ink, threads of words crossing the page, 
though it was a little fragile looking, like old lace that’s stating to fall apart. 
She was using lawyer language, asking questions that included lots of Latin, then writing, writing, writing. As I eavesdropped, I rinsed out my tea cup and got myself some water from the tap. 
“Ridiculous!” she said, and “what arrogance.” Then very loudly, 
“Oh, for fuck’s sake!” At that point I almost dropped my cup, but she didn’t even look embarrassed. 
“Yes,” she said. “All right. That’s perfect.” She put a period down at the end of a sentence as if she was pinning it down firmly. 
“Thank you, Luisa.” 
She got up from her chair, disentangled herself from the coiled telephone wire, and hung the receiver up on an old-school telephone fixed to the wall. 
Fury clawed up in me, shockingly hot, clogging my head until my scalp prickled with it. 
Arthur twitched back. “Not about that, Russell. Not talking about you. I swear.” 
I clamped my jaw down on what I had been about to say. “What, then?” I growled through my teeth. 
Arthur hesitated, his fingers pressing against the laminated pine of the tabletop. “This thing with the Lancer. Was hard on him.” 
“It was hard on him?” I repeated. “Excuse me, was he shot at and locked up and also almost blown to pieces three separate times?” 
“He could use a friend, ’s all I’m saying.” He made a vague gesture and headed out the door. 
I turned and leaned my head against the wall. Arthur had too high expectations of me, as always. I wasn’t in any condition to be a friend to anyone. I’d never been very good at being a friend to anyone. 
I’d figured the updates were just because he was curious, or keeping tabs for us, as he did. Or, hell, I hadn’t figured at all—I hadn’t even thought about it. 
Fuck. I pushed off the wall and went out to the Hole. 
Lexy finished dressing and went into Caroline’s room. In the gay April sunshine, that dainty room seemed almost unbearably forlorn. 
She went over to the window and looked down into the street. People were passing by, and taxis, and private cars—all the ordinary, casual, cheerful daily life at which Caroline Enderby had so often looked out, like a poor enchanted princess in a tower. A wave of pity and affection rose in Lexy’s heart. 
“Oh, poor Caroline!” she said to herself. “Such a dull, miserable life! I do wish—” 
There was a knock at the door, and she hurried across the room to open it. The parlor maid stood there with a tray. Lexy took it from her with a pleasant “good morning,” and closed the door again. Caroline’s breakfast! There was something disturbing in the sight of that carefully prepared tray, ready for the girl who was not there. 
The door opened—without a preliminary knock, this time—and Mrs. Enderby came in. She turned the key behind her, and, without a word, went over to the bed and pulled off the covers. Then she went into the adjoining bathroom and started the water running in the tub. This done, she sat down at the table and began to eat the breakfast on the tray. 
And sometimes those people misunderstand the nature of a game. 
Let's just leave it at that, OK? 
Class ended in ten minutes, and that didn't leave me with much time to prepare. The first order of business were those pesky gait-recognition cameras. Like I said, they'd started out as face-recognition cameras, but those had been ruled unconstitutional. As far as I know, no court has yet determined whether these gait-cams are any more legal, but until they do, we're stuck with them. 
"Gait" is a fancy word for the way you walk. People are pretty good at spotting gaits -- next time you're on a camping trip, check out the bobbing of the flashlight as a distant friend approaches you. Chances are you can identify him just from the movement of the light, the characteristic way it bobs up and down that tells our monkey brains that this is a person approaching us. 
Gait recognition software takes pictures of your motion, tries to isolate you in the pics as a silhouette, and then tries to match the silhouette to a database to see if it knows who you are. It's a biometric identifier, like fingerprints or retina-scans, but it's got a lot more "collisions" than either of those. A biometric "collision" is when a measurement matches more than one person. Only you have your fingerprint, but you share your gait with plenty other people. 
So the police were, as they say, baffled. Mr. Houseman told them a tale. He had been alarmed about the lady whom he knew as Mrs. Quelton, and he had climbed up on the balcony, hoping to see her alone; but he had met Dr. Quelton instead, and had been hurt in trying to escape from him. 
Captain Grey also had a tale. He, too, had been alarmed about the lady whom he believed to be his sister. He had gone with Miss Moran to call upon her, and they had found the doctor dead, lying across the coffin. 
There was an inquest, and Mr. Houseman had a very unpleasant time of it, being the last one who had seen the doctor alive; but there was no really serious suspicion against him. The post-mortem showed that the doctor had died of some unknown poison, at least half an hour after the young man had arrived at the hospital. The verdict was suicide, although the coroner’s jury had its own opinion about the mysterious dark woman who had posed as the doctor’s wife. An autopsy revealed that Mrs. Quelton had died from a natural cause—phthisis of the lungs. In short, as far as could be discovered, there was no murder at all. 
really good at it. When he gets into a role, he’s totally into it, and it’s almost creepy because he’s so convincing. His face changes. 
His body changes. He becomes another person. And then, at the snap of a finger, he’s himself again. It’s like possession, only it’s all under his control. Also, he can memorize pages and pages of dialogue or make stuff up on the fly. Give him a character outline and he’ll run with it, improvising a story and making it all totally believable. 
He didn’t go to my school in the suburbs, but the kids at his school were just as bad. Between his clothes, his looks, and his attitude, he didn’t fit in. He didn’t like being called a faggot and getting harassed on a daily basis. For the record, he’s not gay or even bi. “Faggot” is just an all-purpose insult. The fact that he sometimes wears a skirt isn’t a statement about his orientation. He just feels like it, but boys aren’t supposed to feel like it. 
Sometimes I think it’s harder being a boy than a girl because you can’t wear certain colors and have to act tough. Then I see how women are treated in the tech community and I’m not so sure. People are basically equal opportunity jerks. 
"Brutal." 
He wondered if he'd overstepped himself. Who cared? 
"Brutal doesn't mean untrue. It's like, it's like the money that came into this place, it became autonomous, turned into a strategy for multiplying itself. A bad strategy. The money wants to sell something to a monster, but the money doesn't know what monsters want, so it's just, what, beating its brains out on the wall. One day, the money runs out and..." 
"The money won't run out," Brautigan said. "Wrong. We'd have to spend at ten-ex what we're burning now to even approach the principal." 
"OK," Leon said. "So it's immortal. That's better?" 
Brautigan winced. "Look, it's not so crazy. There's an entire unserved market out there. No one's serving it. They're like, you know, like Communist countries. Planned economies. They need something, they just acquire the capacity. No market." 
"Hey, bub, I know just what you need! You need a house to go with this doorknob!" To his own surprise, Leon discovered that he did a passable Daffy Duck. Brautigan blinked at him. Leon realized that the man was a little drunk. "Just something I heard the other day," he said. "I told the lady from my monster that we could provide the stuff that their corporate culture precluded. I was thinking of you know, how the samurai banned firearms. We can think and do the unthinkable and undo-able." 
I held my senses on the wiring pattern, on its logical progression, the overlay of explosives leading me back out to the garage and to the broad roll-up doors that led out of the building. Here was the weak point. They’d needed to get their vehicles out. The circuit didn’t cross the doors like it did the windows, but instead flowed against the frame—I focused my regular vision instead of my mathematical awareness and found simple magnetic sensors. Magnet in the wiring, magnet in the door; if the door rolled up, the switch would trip and the circuit would break. 
Okay. I could do this. All I needed was a magnet. 
Well, that was easy. The power had to be working if the computers were, so I had electricity, and there was plenty of junk scattered about the base. Not to mention that they probably had tools and supplies in their storerooms that would have what I needed. 
I sprinted back to the armory and the storerooms beside it and started digging through cardboard boxes and tool kits. I was in luck: not only did I find nails, wire, and duct tape almost immediately, but I also found a box of batteries, which would save me the trouble of jury-rigging a safe voltage from a wall socket. Twenty-eight minutes. I started to breathe more easily. 
"I get you," he said. "Thank you, sir." Before the Securitat man could say any more, Lawrence was on his way. 
The man from Anja's building had a different sweater on, but the new one -- bulky wool the color of good chocolate -- was every bit as handsome as the one he'd had on before. He was wearing some kind of citrusy cologne and his hair fell around his ears in little waves that looked so natural they had to be fake. Lawrence saw...  urge to duck away and change into better clothes, just so he wouldn't look like such a fucking hayseed next to this guy. I'm a New Yorker, he thought, or at least I was. I belong here. 
"Hey, Lawrence, fancy meeting you here!" He shook Lawrence's hand and gave him a wry, you-and-me-in-it-together smile. "How's the vision quest coming?" 
"Huh?" 
"The Anomaly -- that's what you're chasing, aren't you? It's your little rite of passage. My sister had one last year. Figured out that some guy who travelled from Fort Worth to Portland, Oregon, every week was actually a fictional construct invented by cargo smugglers who used his seat to plant a series of mules running heroin and cash. She was so proud afterwards that I couldn't get her to shut up about it. You had the holy fire the other night when I saw you." 
Do the math, I told myself. How many variables? How many possible paths? She can’t have microscopic control; it’s not practical. The thought let me breathe a little easier. Dawna Polk might have some foothold in my head, but there was no way she could have predicted every event that would happen to me and implanted her preferred reaction to it. At least, I hoped not. And are you really so egotistical that you think you merit her full-time puppet mastery? 
It depended on what she wanted with me, I supposed, which brought me back to wondering why she had even called me in the first place. It was clear Pithica already had the resources to pull Courtney out of the cartel’s clutches if they had chosen to. So why me? 
I mulled it over for a while, but I had no idea. The only possibility I could think of was what Steve had said—that I had shown some sort of unusual resilience to Dawna’s techniques. Maybe Pithica had known that somehow and wanted to test me on it. Was this all an elaborate game to see whether I was capable of shaking off their influence? Or—Steve had said Pithica had some normal human agents; could everything have been a strange way of recruiting me? Maybe each interaction was supposed to build up some web of faith in Dawna and Pithica until I was their thoroughly domesticated delivery girl. 
But also the sort of guys who would study the Whiston Corporation in numbing, statistical detail, who would keep their ears to the ground and snuffle out any tidbits of data, family or otherwise, that could be leveraged for profit. In backwards nations, this is called blackmail. On Wall Street and its assorted doppelgangers in human space, it's just called business. 
Sitting here at the bar on the second day of Operation Bogeyman, Corporal James Rodriguez, lately of the 15th Marine Frontier Expeditionary Force, C Company, now CIU affiliated covert operative, is growing increasingly disturbed by his perception of the mission guidelines. Or misperception, as the case may be. It has got to be a misperception, frankly, because even without having finished his degree at Virginia Tech, he doesn't need help recognizing or analyzing the psychotic nature of what he's been told— though he does completely recognize the military nature with which it is being carried out, which trumps all other concerns in most cases. 
One trench over there came the dread zizz sound of a trenchbuster and she threw herself down. There were anti-busters in the trenches, too, but they didn’t always work. The trench-busters were mostly up around the front, but they sometimes came back to the diggers, and they had killed one crew she knew of. 
There were screams from the next trench, then a sound like a bag of gravel being poured out—that was the anti-buster, she knew—and the trenchbuster soared out overhead of her and detonated in the sky, mortally confused by the counter-logic in the anti-buster. 
She realized that she had peed herself. Just a little, just a few drops that must have escaped when she gave her involuntary shriek. She planted her hands in the frozen dirt of the trench-floor and got to her knees. That was when she saw the fingertip, shriveled and frozen, lying just a few inches from her. It had been cleanly severed. 
She had seen so much death, but the fingertip, cut off and left here to dry out and be trampled down into the dirt; It made her stomach do slow somersaults. She threw up a little, and peed herself a little more, and her eyes watered. 
She chased after him and the shrill cries of the women followed them, but he knew the rubble-piles well and he dodged and weaved and she was so tired. Eventually she sat down and wept. 
That was when she saw her first zombie. Zombiism had been eliminated when she was practically a baby, just after the revolution, years and years ago. 
But now it was back. The zombie had been a soldier, so maybe zombiism was coming back in the gas attacks that wafted over the trenches. His uniform hung in rags from his loose limbs as he walked in that funky, disco-dancer shuffle that meant zombie as clearly as the open drooling mouth and the staring, not-seeing eyes. They were fast, zombies, though you could hardly believe it when they were doing that funky walk. Once they saw prey, they turned into race horses that tore over anything and everything in their quest to rip and bite and rend and tear, screaming incoherencies with just enough words in them to make it clear that they were angry—so so angry. 
"Ms Brown," Ange said, extending a hand. Oh, yeah, right, our identities were supposed to be a secret. "I work with Mr Green." She elbowed me lightly. 
"Let's go then," Barbara said, and led us back to a board-room with long glass walls with their blinds drawn shut. She set down a tray of Whole Foods organic Oreo clones, a digital recorder, and another yellow pad. 
"Do you want to record this too?" she asked. 
Hadn't actually thought of that. I could see why it would be useful if I wanted to dispute what Barbara printed, though. Still, if I couldn't trust her to do right by me, I was doomed anyway. 
"No, that's OK," I said. 
"Right, let's go. Young lady, my name is Barbara Stratford and I'm an investigative reporter. I gather you know why I'm here, and I'm curious to know why you're here." 
"I work with Marcus on the Xnet," she said. "Do you need to know my name?" 
"Not right now, I don't," Barbara said. "You can be anonymous if you'd like. Marcus, I asked you to tell me this story because I need to know how it plays with the story you told me about your friend Darryl and the note you showed me. I can see how it would be a good adjunct; I could pitch this as the origin of the Xnet. 'They made an enemy they'll never forget,' that sort of thing. But to be honest, I'd rather not have to tell that story if I don't have to. 
Part of me had still been suspicious of a trap, but instead we were in a tastefully furnished office with a broad wooden desk backed by several comfortingly decorative tall houseplants. Plants. It was absurdly normal. The only thing in the place that hinted the office didn’t belong to a tax lawyer was a tall gun safe abutting the file cabinets against one wall. 
“Come in,” said Tresting, going behind his desk and pulling one of the client chairs around with him so he could gesture me to sit. He powered on a sleek desktop computer with dual monitors that booted into some Unix-based variant of operating system. I squinted at him in surprise. 
“My tech guy set it up,” he explained. 
“Speaking of, when is he getting here?” 
“Right now,” said Tresting, opening a video chat link. 
A clear image of a room snapped into focus on one monitor, and my immediate impression was the lair of someone who was one-third hacker, one-third supervillain, and one-third magpie. Bundles of wiring and edges of hardware I didn’t recognize filled the whole view, and multiple monitors showing abstract screensavers backlit the darkened space, racked one over the other to create a wall of screens. The dim light silhouetted a man who sat presiding over his nest of computers, and as the chat link came alive, he turned to face us, levering one side of what I realized was a wheelchair around to bring himself closer to the camera. He was surprisingly young, probably Tresting’s junior by two decades, and was one of the skinniest men I’d ever seen, with a skinny lean face, a skinny little goatee, and skinny long fingers, which he steepled under his chin as his eyes flicked over us. A manic grin lit up his narrow face. 
“Give me your pepper spray and your truncheon,” he said to the security guard. 
“No way,” the guard said. “Getcherown. It’s worth my job if I lose these.” 
“I’ll have you deported if you give me one more second’s worth of bullshit,” Arturo said. Ada had led the first R Peed unit here, and it had been fried by some piece of very ugly infowar equipment. He wasn’t going to argue with this Oceanic boat-person for one instant longer. He reached out and took the pepper spray out of the guard’s hand. “Truncheon,” he said. 
“I’ve got your bloody badge number,” the security guard said. “And I’ve got witnesses.” He gestured at the hovering mall workers, checkout girls in stripey aprons and suit salesmen with oiled-down hair and pink ties. 
“Bully for you,” Arturo said. He held out his hand. The security guard withdrew his truncheon and passed it to Arturo—its lead-weighted heft felt right, something comfortably low-tech that couldn’t be shorted out by electromagnetic pulses. He checked his watch, saw that it was dead. 
"Confirm that. He's gone down."  "You're certain?" 
Um, yeah. 
"I need to know if it's gone to Sigma, Ray." 
"It's gone to Sigma." 
Becker goes silent for several moments, then says, "Sub-deck Sigma is the primary resource deck for particle reactor maintenance. I can't raise anyone on that level, at least not with this unit. They're lead shielded and the signal keeps bouncing. Diggs is at the checkpoint trying on the hard comm, but I haven't heard back from him yet." 
"We're going to proceed." 
"Ray, what I'm telling you is that I can't pull all those people out. We're in the deceleration protocol. They can't just abandon the reactor and hope for the best. They can't shut it down until you get this situation mopped up because we'd lose braking and overshoot our docking lane. If we can get through to them, we can clear out the non-essential personnel, but there will still be a couple hundred hands that simply can't evacuate. 
Not without endangering the ship. " 
In the glow of the shaft, the three of them exchange pained looks. 
As my bladder cut loose, so did my eyes. I wept, crying silently and rocking back and forth while the tears and snot ran down my face. It was all I could do to keep from sobbing -- I covered my mouth and held the sounds in. I didn't want to give them the satisfaction. 
Finally, I was peed out and cried out and the guy was pounding on the door. I cleaned my face as best as I could with wads of toilet paper, stuck it all down the john and flushed, then looked around for a sink but only found a pump-bottle of heavy-duty hand-sanitizer covered in small-print lists of the bio-agents it worked on. I rubbed some into my hands and stepped out of the john. 
"What were you doing in there?" the guy said. 
"Using the facilities," I said. He turned me around and grabbed my hands and I felt a new pair of plastic cuffs go around them. My wrists had swollen since the last pair had come off and the new ones bit cruelly into my tender skin, but I refused to give him the satisfaction of crying out. 
He shackled me back to my spot and grabbed the next person down, who, I saw now, was Jolu, his face puffy and an ugly bruise on his cheek. 
What's worse, from what I knew, the horrific brain trau­mas that bring on a coma don't automatically go away when you regain consciousness. If the coma is the result of a head injury, and if it lasts more than a few days, the chances of regaining all your mental functions are up for grabs. Lou once said there's a scale of eight stages to full recovery. Peo­ple who have short comas can sometimes come out of them and go through those stages quickly—from initial eye move­ment to full mental faculties. Others, who've been under for months or longer can require years to come back. Sometimes they can only blink their eyes to answer questions; sometimes they babble on incessantly. They can talk sense, or they can talk nonsense, incoherent fantasies, even strings of numbers. The brain is a complex, unpredictable thing. . . 
I always thought about this as I took the elevator up to Lenox Hill's third floor. The room where they kept Sarah was painted a pale, sterile blue, and made even more de­pressing by stark fluorescent lights. Everything was chrome and baked-on enamel, including the instruments whose CRT screens reported her bodily functions. None of the instru­ments, however, had ever shown the brain activity associated with consciousness. 
Ray hardly hears them. He's too busy realizing that they finally have light. Not much, granted, not enough to filter very effectively up the ladder shaft, but enough that he can see. They're in a rounded alcove against the blast wall, looking out on a corridor almost exactly like the one they left up on Omicron. It's a straight chute in either direction, with the occasional intersection splitting off in the distance. Not so many as above, because most of this area is a warren of offices, multiply redundant computer systems and monitoring laboratories. 
The lighting is still dim here. More than half of the bulbs have blown, and those that haven't blown are sputtering. 
From what seems to be kilometers away, there is screaming. High pitched, ringing with terror, choking to silence. 
"Where is it coming from?" Kilgore growls. 
Ray strains to listen, but there are bulkheads and strange echoes, any number of distorting baffles between them. He steps out into the corridor, where there are bodies. Some are puddles of flesh, things he's seen before. Others are shattered wrecks, as though they've been smashed by hammers the size of tree trunks. The flesh is mangled, battered, stretched by bones which have poked through the skin. The walls are streaked with blood, angry red flowers from impact points where corpses flopped like tossed dolls and languid, wavy arcs from crewmen who slid lazily from wall to deck. Ray counts a dozen before he stops. 
“We found out what happened,” said Arthur, when we’d reached the lake. “Most of it.” 
“What’s going on?” Halliday’s words had the sound of someone who was back to controlling herself very tightly—and on the edge of not being able to manage it. “Is Xiaohu all right?” 
“He’s fine,” Arthur answered. “Well, till the Feds catch him. Don’t think he understands the magnitude of what he did here, stealing a proof from them.” 
Halliday stopped walking. “So he did...he stole...” She didn’t seem able to finish. 
“Think he thought he was doing something good,” Arthur said gently. “Wanted to release it to the public. Something about the math world needing to know.” He exchanged a glance with me, clearly uneasy about how to bring up Martinez. “Went wrong, though.” 
“What happened? Is he all right?” 
“Till his bosses catch on, yeah,” said Arthur. 
Halliday pressed a hand to her mouth. “He has a family,” she said softly. 
“Well, he should’ve thought of that before he stole from the freakin’ NSA,” I said. “Or at least planned his theft a little better.” Bad tradecraft. I didn’t have any sympathy for that. 
"Am I under arrest?" 
"You've been momentarily detained so that we can ensure your safety and the general public safety," Booger said. 
He passed my driver's license up to Zit, who pecked it slowly into his computer. I saw him make a typo and almost corrected him, but figured it was better to just keep my mouth shut. 
"Is there anything you want to tell me, Marcus? Do they call you Marc?" 
"Marcus is fine," I said. Booger looked like he might be a nice guy. Except for the part about kidnapping me into his car, of course. 
"Marcus. Anything you want to tell me?" 
"Like what? Am I under arrest?" 
"You're not under arrest right now," Booger said. "Would you like to be?" 
"No," I said. 
"Good. We've been watching you since you left the BART. Your Fast Pass says that you've been riding to a lot of strange places at a lot of funny hours." 
I felt something let go inside my chest. This wasn't about the Xnet at all, then, not really. They'd been watching my subway use and wanted to know why it had been so freaky lately. How totally stupid. 
"Which is why we weren't getting any definitive hits against the standard databases." Ray brings up another image, a still shot of a false color cell structure, grainy and bulbous, limned in unnatural neons. "This is a captured image some of the actual physical data obtained at the crime scene. I want you to notice this little structure here, the gold one that looks like a parenthesis. And over here, the trapezoidal object in front of the nucleus. Those aren't what I would term naturally occurring shapes." 
Becker leans in close, peering. "What is the magnification here?" 
"It's in the micron range. " 
"Micron range. " 
"Yes." 
The Chief rolls his tongue around the inside of his mouth. "Nanomech id masking."  "Our complete tissue pool was contaminated with them, except for the tissues taken from the victim himself. 
That's why we couldn't track any of them in the databases." 
"This is not the news I wanted to hear." 
"Come on, Rich. Those are verifiable nanomech drones. You can count on one hand the people on this ship who would have the connections and the cred to access that kind of hardware. Colineate that with Freddy's absence and the opportunity to commit the crime, and that's as close as you can get without actual vid capture of the event." 
“Now that you do know, perhaps you will spare yourself the trouble of going there,” said Mrs. Enderby. “I assure you you will not find Caroline there. I myself made certain inquiries. No such person has arrived in Wyngate.” 
There was a moment’s silence. 
“But I observe by your face that you are not convinced,” Mrs. Enderby went on. “‘This Mrs. Enderby, she is a stupid old creature,’ you think to yourself. ‘I shall go there myself, and I shall discover that which she could not.’” 
Lexy reddened again. 
“I don’t mean it that way,” she said. “It’s only that we look at this from different points of view, and I feel—I feel that I’ve got to go.” 
“Very well!” said Mrs. Enderby, and she, too, rose. “You will please to come to my room with me. There is part of your salary to be paid to you.” 
Lexy followed her, still flushed, and very reluctant. She wished she could afford to refuse that money. 
“But I’ve earned it,” she thought; “and goodness knows I’ll need it!” 
Mrs. Enderby sat down at her desk and took out her check book. While she wrote, Lexy looked out of the window. 
“I don’t mind,” Lexy conceded. 
There was a moment’s silence. 
“Charles is my name,” he observed. 
Another silence. 
“Queer, isn’t it?” he said seriously. 
“Here we’ve only seen each other once, and yet somehow it seems to me as if I’d known you for years!” 
“Well, the circumstances are rather unusual,” said Lexy. 
“You’re right! But look here—we’ve got to talk about all this. Where were you going?” 
“Back to Mrs. Royce’s.” 
“Let’s go!” he said cheerfully, and picked up the bag as if it were nothing at all. 
“But where were you going?” asked Lexy. 
“To find you. You see, we ran into some awfully bad weather, and the engines broke down, and we came back for repairs; so I got your letters. I explained to the old man that I’d have to have leave, for some very important business, and off I came to Wyngate. Your Mrs. Royce told me you’d gone out to the Queltons’. I didn’t like that. Why did you go there, after what had happened?” 
“I’ll tell you all about that later,” said Lexy; “but now you’ve got to tell me things. How did you ever meet Caroline? How in the world did she manage to write to you?” 
Captain Grey pulled at the ring, but nothing happened. 
“I’m on the wrong side,” he said. 
Moving over, he pulled again, and a square of stone lifted. A clear light came from below, showing a short ladder clamped to the floor. 
“Stay there, please,” he told Lexy. “You have the lantern. I shan’t be a minute.” 
But as soon as he had reached the foot of the ladder, Lexy climbed down after him; and just at the same moment, they saw— They were standing in a tiny room with roughly mortared walls. A powerful electric torch stood on end in one corner, and at their feet lay the body of a man, face downward across a wooden chest. It was Dr. Quelton. 
With a violent effort Captain Grey lifted the doctor’s heavy shoulder, while Lexy covered her eyes. She knew that he was dead. No living thing could lie so. 
Her head swam, her knees gave way, and she tottered back against the wall, half fainting, when the captain’s voice rang out, with a note of agony and despair that she never forgot. 
“My God! My God!” he wailed. “Oh, Muriel!” 
“I’m Zen,” I said, adding after a tense moment of being stared at by a guy with a gun, “Some people call me Shad.” 
He nodded slowly, once, leaned the gun against the porch rail- ing and came down the steps to inspect me more closely. That’s when I realized it was a woman. 
She put out a hand, finally. “Jane Shandy. I was expecting you.” She cocked an eyebrow at the car, like a question mark. 
“Why are they here?” 
“I can’t drive. They’re completely trustworthy. This is Wheeze.” 
She ducked down to peer into the backseat. “Let’s get you inside.” 
I nside smelled like a blend of herbs and fresh baked bread and smoky bacon. The front door led right into a kitchen where there was a giant old wood-fired stove with a kettle resting on it, a deep cast-iron sink with a pump handle instead of a faucet, a big table covered with a checkered oilcloth, and some kerosene lamps. 
Bunches of herbs hung from the ceiling. I nearly tripped over a wooden crate near the stove that had a chicken in it. She ruffled her feathers and clucked at me. Two dogs made the rounds, sniff- ing each of us. One growled but Jane Shandy said “hush” and he did. A cat had taken one disgusted look and stalked out of the room. 
“My dear!” he said again. 
Her weary eyes opened and looked up at him. Then the shadow of a smile crossed her face. 
“Stay!” she whispered. 
Lexy drew nearer. Tears were running down her cheeks. She tried to read the nurse’s face, but she could not. 
“How is—she—getting on?” she asked, speaking very low. 
“Lexy!” came a voice from the cot, almost inaudible. “Take it—the top drawer—of the bureau—for you.” 
“But do you mean—I don’t understand!” cried Lexy. 
“Hush, please!” said the nurse severely. “Mrs. Quelton is not to be excited.” 
Lexy was silent for a moment. Then, just as she was about to speak, her quick ear caught a very unwelcome sound—the sound of a horse’s trot. She turned away and went back through the window into the room. Dr. Quelton was coming home. She couldn’t wait to find out what Muriel Quelton had meant. Once more she was compelled to do the best she could amid a fog of misunderstanding. 
“Lexy—take it—the top drawer—of the bureau—for you.” 
That was what she thought Mrs. Quelton had said, and she acted upon that premise. She crossed the room to the bureau, and opened the top drawer. In the dim light that filled the shuttered room she could not see very clearly; but, as far as she could ascertain, there was nothing in the drawer except some neatly folded silk stockings, a satin glove case, some little odds and ends of ribbons, and a pile of handkerchiefs. She looked into the glove case—nothing there but gloves. There was nothing hidden away among the stockings, nothing among the ribbons. 
I opened the beer, swept the pill-dust into my palm and funneled it into the bottle, swirling it until the powder was dissolved and none of it was clinging to the sides. Then I hid the prescription bottles behind the toilet, flushed and washed my hands. They were shaking. I took a deep breath before going back out to the kitchen, where I grabbed the wine and tottered back to front room, a bottle in each hand. 
“Is that for me?” He grinned up at me, sitting on the floor, surrounded by albums. 
I gave him the beer and splashed more wine into my glass. “I should go easy on this stuff. It’s making me feel kind of . . . whoa.” 
He reached for me. I giggled and stepped away, wandering the room again as he put an album on. “You’ll like this. It’s like the second coming of the Ramones. Channeling rage, you know?” 
“Awesome.” It sounded like random, pounding noise. 
Or maybe that was just my heart slamming in my chest and my sub- conscious telling me to run far, far away.“Bottoms up.” I held up my glass, challenging him. He obediently tipped his beer up and chugged, downing it all in a few gulps. I twirled around, saying “Wheel” like an idiot, catching a glimpse of him frowning and licking his upper lip. Steadying myself against the windowsill, I watered another plant. “A toast!” I said, holding up my empty glass. 
The element of romance in Aurelia's marriage existed chiefly in the fact that Mr. L. D. M. Randall had a soul above farming or trading and was a votary of the Muses. He taught the weekly singing-school (then a feature of village life) in half a dozen neighboring towns, he played the violin and "called off" at dances, or evoked rich harmonies from church melodeons on Sundays. He taught certain uncouth lads, when they were of an age to enter society, the intricacies of contra dances, or the steps of the schottische and mazurka, and he was a marked figure in all social assemblies, though conspicuously absent from town-meetings and the purely masculine gatherings at the store or tavern or bridge. 
His hair was a little longer, his hands a little whiter, his shoes a little thinner, his manner a trifle more polished, than that of his soberer mates; indeed the only department of life in which he failed to shine was the making of sufficient money to live upon. Luckily he had no responsibilities; his father and his twin brother had died when he was yet a boy, and his mother, whose only noteworthy achievement had been the naming of her twin sons Marquis de Lafayette and Lorenzo de Medici Randall, had supported herself and educated her child by making coats up to the very day of her death. She was wont to say plaintively, "I'm afraid the faculties was too much divided up between my twins. L. D. M. is awful talented, but I guess M. D. L. would 'a' ben the practical one if he'd 'a' lived." 
Thy family's grateful love. 
Your loving little friend, Rebecca. 
Dear John,—You remember when we tide the new dog in the barn how he bit the rope and howled I am just like him only the brick house is the barn and I can not bite Aunt M. because I must be grateful and edducation is going to be the making of me and help you pay off the morgage when we grow up. Your loving Becky. 
The day of Rebecca's arrival had been Friday, and on the Monday following she began her education at the school which was in Riverboro Centre, about a mile distant. Miss Sawyer borrowed a neighbor's horse and wagon and drove her to the schoolhouse, interviewing the teacher, Miss Dearborn, arranging for books, and generally starting the child on the path that was to lead to boundless knowledge. Miss Dearborn, it may be said in passing, had had no special preparation in the art of teaching. It came to her naturally, so her family said, and perhaps for this reason she, like Tom Tulliver's clergyman tutor, "set about it with that uniformity of method and independence of circumstances which distinguish the actions of animals understood to be under the immediate teaching of Nature." You remember the beaver which a naturalist tells us "busied himself as earnestly in constructing a dam in a room up three pair of stairs in London as if he had been laying his foundation in a lake in Upper Canada. It was his function to build, the absence of water or of possible progeny was an accident for which he was not accountable." In the same manner did Miss Dearborn lay what she fondly imagined to be foundations in the infant mind. 
"Backing up in the wild?" 
"Yeah." 
She dried her eyes. "I doubt it. I don't know, though. I'm no computer scientist. How many ways are there to connect up compromised servers? How many of those would replicate his own outcomes? I have no idea." 
Without saying anything, we walked slowly together to Peyton's office. 
Peyton offered me my job back. I turned her down. I thought I might be ready for a career change. Do something with my hands, break the family tradition. Maybe installing solar panels. There was retraining money available. Peyton understood. She even agreed to handle any liability arising from the Rollover code, managing customer service calls from anyone who noticed something funny. 
The press didn't even notice that BIGMAC was gone. His Spam was news. His absence of spam was not. I guess he was right about that. The Campaign to Save BIGMAC did a lot of mailing-list gnashing at the iniquity of his being shut down, and then fell apart. Without me and BIGMAC to keep them whipped up, they were easily distracted. 
"Yes, aunt Miranda." 
"It's always 'yes' with you, and 'yes' with Jane," groaned Miranda, trying to move her stiffened body; "but all the time I lay here knowin' there's things done the way I don't like 'em." 
There was a long pause, during which Rebecca sat down by the bedside and timidly touched her aunt's hand, her heart swelling with tender pity at the gaunt face and closed eyes. 
"I was dreadful ashamed to have you graduate in cheesecloth, Rebecca, but I couldn't help it no-how. You'll hear the reason some time, and know I tried to make it up to ye. I'm afraid you was a laughin'-stock!" 
"No," Rebecca answered. "Ever so many people said our dresses were the very prettiest; they looked like soft lace. You're not to be anxious about anything. Here I am all grown up and graduated,—number three in a class of twenty-two, aunt Miranda,—and good positions offered me already. Look at me, big and strong and young, all ready to go into the world and show what you and aunt Jane have done for me. If you want me near, I'll take the Edgewood school, so that I can be here nights and Sundays to help; and if you get better, then I'll go to Augusta,—for that's a hundred dollars more, with music lessons and other things beside." 
"You're kidding," I said. "You are so not going to eat that." 
Her eyebrows shot up. "That sounds like a challenge, sonny. You just watch me." 
She rolled the burrito up as carefully as a stoner rolling up a joint, tucking the ends in, then re-wrapping it in tinfoil. She peeled off one end and brought it up to her mouth, poised with it just before her lips. 
Right up to the time she bit into it, I couldn't believe that she was going to do it. I mean, that was basically an anti-personnel weapon she'd just slathered on her dinner. 
She bit into it. Chewed. Swallowed. Gave every impression of having a delicious dinner. 
"Want a bite?" she said, innocently. 
"Yeah," I said. I like spicy food. I always order the curries with four chilies next to them on the menu at the Pakistani places. 
I peeled back more foil and took a big bite. 
Big mistake. 
You know that feeling you get when you take a big bite of horseradish or wasabi or whatever, and it feels like your sinuses are closing at the same time as your windpipe, filling your head with trapped, nuclear-hot air that tries to batter its way out through your watering eyes and nostrils? That feeling like steam is about to pour out of your ears like a cartoon character? 
But this was his Ada. Dammit. He had 10 minutes until the Social Harmony meeting started, and he was still 15 minutes away from the stationhouse—and 20 from Ada. 
“Tail her,” he said. “Just tail her. Keep me up to date on your location at 90-second intervals.” 
“It is my pleasure to—” 
He dropped the phone on the passenger seat and went back to fretting about the Social Harmony meeting. 
The man from Social Harmony noticed right away that Arturo was checking his phone at 90-second intervals. He was a bald, thin man with a pronounced Adam’s apple, beak-nose and shiny round head that combined to give him the profile of something predatory and fast. In his natty checked suit and pink tie, the Social Harmony man was the stuff of nightmares, the kind of eagle-eyed supercop who could spot Arturo’s attention flicking for the barest moment every 90 seconds to his phone and then back to the meeting. 
“Detective?” he said. 
Arturo looked up from his screen, keeping his expression neutral, not acknowledging the mean grins from the other four ranking detectives in the meeting. Silently, he turned his phone face-down on the meeting table. 
"People bring them here." She seemed uninterested in the question, just plunging on as she wandered on down the line of bassinets. 
I'd finally come to my senses enough to take out the Betacam, though the light wasn't actually enough to really work with, certainly not broadcast quality. 
She stopped and picked up one of the infants out of its bassinet, then turned back to me, her eyes turning soft as she hugged it the way she might a small puppy. "Isn't this one cute? I'd so love to have him." 
Was she on some kind of drug that suppressed curiosity? I found myself wondering as I panned the camera around the room. There must have been at least twenty bassinets, all just alike, wicker with a white lace hood. A couple of the babies were sniffling, and the one Tara had picked up now began crying outright, much to her annoyance. The room itself smelled like baby powder. 
"And then what happens?" I asked finally, zooming in on one of the women. 
"What happens when?" Now Tara was twirling in a circle, humming futilely to the shrieking child. "You mean, after they come here?" 
She stood a moment longer and then there was a sound like far-away thunder. A second later, a little wind. On its heels, a bigger wind, icy cold and then hot as the oven when you open the door, nearly blowing her off her feet. It smelled like something dead or something deadly. She ran as fast as she could across the street, pounding hell for leather to her front door. Just as she reached for it, there was a much louder thunderclap, one that lifted her off her feet and tossed her into the air, spinning her around. As she spun around and around, she saw the brave red dome of the cine disintegrate, crumble to a million shards that began to rain down on the street. Then the boom dropped her hard on the pavement and she saw no more. 
The day after the siege began, the doctor fitted Valentine for her hearing aid and told her to come back in ten years for a battery change. She hardly felt it slide under her skin but once it was there, the funny underwatery sound of everything and everyone turned back into bright sound as sharp as the cine’s had been. 
Arthur held up his hands placatingly. “Might be a better idea for us to run anyway. From what you say, we ain’t causing a fuss, maybe they let us be.” 
Rio turned away from him slightly. “Your assistance during this has been appreciated; however, you will not be going with her. You are still compromised.” 
“Says the man who shot her!” 
“You are free to go your own way,” said Rio. 
“I can? Why, thank you so much for the permission!” 
“Cas,” said Rio, “We must move you to a more secure location immediately. Preferably outside the country.” 
“No,” I said. 
“Cas—” 
“Yeah, you just go and tell everyone what to do—” put in Arthur. 
“Cas, I cannot impress upon you the danger of—” 
“I ain’t trusting you to keep her safe!” 
“Hey!” The shout sent spikes of pain shooting through my still-damaged lungs, but I didn’t care. This was like trying to corral wet, angry cats. Rio thought Arthur useless, Arthur thought Rio an abomination, Checker didn’t trust anyone anymore, and Rio didn’t trust anyone ever, apparently me included. For crying out loud, I was the only one who wanted to be a team player, which was so laughable it pissed me right the hell off. Not to mention the ridiculous, chauvinistic chivalry that apparently came mandatory with a Y-chromosome—I was capable of wiping the floor with both Rio and Arthur at once, and they thought they had a right to dictate what I should do? No wonder I preferred to work alone. 
She ran now, flying through the trenches. The closer she got to the front the worse it smelled, but that was OK, bad smells were fine by her. Body parts—the fingertip had just been a preview, here you could find jawbones and tongues, hands and feet, curled-in cocks and viscera that glistened through its dust-crust—not a problem. 
She planted five eyes, then crouched to let a trenchbuster sail over her head. She resisted a mad urge to reach up and stick an eye to it, then planted another eye, palming it and sticking it right under the nose of a gunnery sergeant who was hollering at two old women who were struggling to maneuver a gigantic, multi-part weapon into position. To Valentine, the women looked old enough to be from the same tribe she’d hauled water for, and they were so thin they looked like they were made of twisted-together wires. Their eyes were huge and round and showed the whites. 
The sergeant paid her no mind as she slipped forward, her shovel still in one hand. The trench dead-ended ahead of her and she jigged to a side trench, but soon that, too, dead-ended. Dead end after dead end—each got its own eye—and before long she was at the end of the road, no more side tunnels. She would have to turn back and try another path. There were no maps of the trenches, of course. 
The gang immediately began striking the lights and rolling up electrical cords. They would take the equipment back downtown and deliver the film to the lab, while I would head home. It had been a long day and lots of thinking was needed. Besides, it was starting to rain, a dismal spatter against Paula's grimy windows, as the gray spring afternoon had begun darkening toward sullen evening. 
"Listen, I enjoyed this." Paula had taken Rachel in her arms and was stroking her blond hair. "I really love talking about her. She's changed my life." 
I gave her another hug. "You're great. And you're going to be wonderful in the film." If I used her. The whole thing was getting unnerving. "You have no idea how much you've helped." Then I said good-bye to Rachel, who responded with a perfect "Bye, bye" through her haze of spaghetti sauce. 
Okay, get the superintendent. Crank up the freight eleva­tor. Get out of here. 
Scott Ventri, key grip, took charge of handling the gear, dictating which equipment got loaded on first. I watched long enough to make sure everything was going okay, and then I joined Arlene, old friend and queen of outrageous makeup, on the other elevator. 
"Or you're afraid of them." 
"Did you know that the younger ones, their noses run all the time."  "It's a good thing you're cute when you panic, otherwise they would more than likely eat you alive. They're barbarians." 
He's trying to make her laugh, but she isn't very interested. She is quite serious about her lack of domestic skill. 
"I'm just teasing you," he says. "As long as you can cook, I don't care what you think about children." 
"I can't cook, Ray." 
"Yikes. It's a good thing you're independently wealthy, then. You'd have a hard time finding a husband with that resume." He winks; she smiles. She's more fun to play with than a bunch of uber-kids anyway, even if she doesn't like Captain Shadow. "Maybe you can run the mining operation and Frederick can run the Trust. That way each of you get a piece of the family business." 
It's out of his mouth before he can even...  ducks his head. 
"I don't think that would be a good idea. Children don't like my brother very much either. I certainly didn't like him when we were children." 
"Nothing at all, aunt Miranda." 
"Why, what's the matter with him? Gittin' lazy, ain't he? How 's John turnin' out?" 
"He's going to be the best of us all." 
"I hope you don't slight things in the kitchen because I ain't there. Do...  it upside down on the winder-sill?" 
"Yes, aunt Miranda." 
"It's always 'yes' with you, and 'yes' with Jane," groaned Miranda, trying to move her stiffened body; "but all the time I lay here knowin' there's things done the way I don't like 'em." 
There was a long pause, during which Rebecca sat down by the bedside and timidly touched her aunt's hand, her heart swelling with tender pity at the gaunt face and closed eyes. 
"I was dreadful ashamed to have you graduate in cheesecloth, Rebecca, but I couldn't help it no-how. You'll hear the reason some time, and know I tried to make it up to ye. I'm afraid you was a laughin'-stock!" 
"No," Rebecca answered. "Ever so many people said our dresses were the very prettiest; they looked like soft lace. You're not to be anxious about anything. Here I am all grown up and graduated,—number three in a class of twenty-two, aunt Miranda,—and good positions offered me already. Look at me, big and strong and young, all ready to go into the world and show what you and aunt Jane have done for me. If you want me near, I'll take the Edgewood school, so that I can be here nights and Sundays to help; and if you get better, then I'll go to Augusta,—for that's a hundred dollars more, with music lessons and other things beside." 
“It doesn’t seem a bit like Caroline, though,” she remarked. 
Mrs. Enderby smiled again, faintly, and held out her hand for the letter. Lexy returned it to her, with an almost mechanical glance at the postmark—“Wyngate, Connecticut.” 
All her defiance had vanished. She was obliged to admit now that Mrs. Enderby was wise, and that she herself was— “A little fool!” said Lexy candidly to herself. 
“Do you mind if I go out for a walk?” asked the crestfallen Lexy; for that was her instinct in any sort of trouble—to get out into the fresh air and walk. 
“No,” answered Mrs. Enderby; “but I shall ask you to return in half an hour. There is much to be done.” 
“Done!” cried Lexy. “But what can be done—now?” 
“That I shall tell you when you return,” said Mrs. Enderby. “In the meantime, I trust you to say nothing of all this to any person whatever. You understand, Miss Moran?” 
Miss Moran certainly did not understand, but she gave her promise to keep silent, and, putting on her hat and coat, hurried out of the house. Mighty glad she was to get out, too! 
"Drew," she said, and grabbed him by the arm to make him stop stalking back and forth in the kitchen, waving his arms like a street-preacher. 
"What?" he snapped. 
"I think you owe Marcus an apology." She kept her voice even and level. Dad and I are the spazzes in the household -- Mom's a total rock. 
Dad looked at me. His eyes narrowed as he thought for a minute. "All right," he said at last. "You're right. I was talking about competent surveillance. These guys were total amateurs. I'm sorry, son," he said. "You were right. That was ridiculous." He stuck his hand out and shook my hand, then gave me a firm, unexpected hug. 
"God, what are we doing to this country, Marcus? Your generation deserves to inherit something better than this." When he let me go, I could see the deep wrinkles in his face, lines I'd never noticed. 
I went back up to my room and played some Xnet games. There was a good multiplayer thing, a clockwork pirate game where you had to quest every day or two to wind up your whole crew's mainsprings before you could go plundering and pillaging again. It was the kind of game I hated but couldn't stop playing: lots of repetitive quests that weren't all that satisfying to complete, a little bit of player-versus-player combat (scrapping to see who would captain the ship) and not that many cool puzzles that you had to figure out. Mostly, playing this kind of game made me homesick for Harajuku Fun Madness, which balanced out running around in the real world, figuring out online puzzles, and strategizing with your team. 
It was so unfair. I didn't ask to be white. I didn't think I was being braver just because I'm white. But I knew what Jolu was saying. If the cops stopped someone in the Mission and asked to see some ID, chances were that person wasn't white. Whatever risk I ran, Jolu ran more. Whatever penalty I'd pay, Jolu would pay more. 
"I don't know what to say," I said. 
"You don't have to say anything," he said. "I just wanted you to know, so you could understand." 
I could see people walking down the side trail toward us. They were friends of Jolu's, two Mexican guys and a girl I knew from around, short and geeky, always wearing cute black Buddy Holly glasses that made her look like the outcast art-student in a teen movie who comes back as the big success. 
Jolu introduced me and gave them beers. The girl didn't take one, but instead produced a small silver flask of vodka from her purse and offered me a drink. I took a swallow -- warm vodka must be an acquired taste -- and complimented her on the flask, which was embossed with a repeating motif of Parappa the Rapper characters. 
“Please come with us,” said a nondescript woman, appearing with an equally nondescript man right next to us. 
“Laser sights? Really?” I said to her in disgust. “What is this, a cheesy action movie?” 
She smiled slightly. “They are more for you than for our people. An incentive to accompany us, if you will. I’m sure it has been explained that we prefer not to kill you.” 
“It’s just so hard to take you seriously now,” I said. I felt the breeze on my cheek and calculated wind speed, trajectories springing up in my head. Assuming the snipers were dialed in correctly...I casually rocked my weight back. The bright red light was several seconds in correcting. 
“Thought we went over this with your boss,” said Tresting. “We ain’t coming, and if you try to force us, things will go bad for you people. Seemed like he got it.” 
“He gave us no signal to let you go.” 
Tresting glared at me. 
“Oops,” I said. “My bad.” 
“We would prefer it if you came with us. However, I have been authorized as to alternatives,” the woman informed us. 
Lexy laughed. 
“Thank goodness!” she said. “I do want to keep on being—well, ordinary and human, even when outside things seem a little tragic.” 
“Miss Moran!” he said, and stopped. 
It was some time before he spoke again. Lexy took advantage of his abstraction to study his face by the firelight. When you come to understand it a little, it wasn’t a haughty face at all, but a very sensitive and fine one. 
“Miss Moran!” he said again. “About being ordinary and human—of course, one wants to be that; but the thing is—I don’t know quite how to put it, but if you have a feeling, you know—I mean a feeling that something is wrong—” He paused again. 
“I mean,” he went on, “if you have a feeling like that—a sort of—well, call it uneasiness—the question is whether one ought to laugh at it, or take it as”—once more he stopped—“as a warning,” he ended. 
A strange sensation came over Lexy. 
“I’ve been thinking a good deal about that very thing lately,” she replied. “I believe feelings like that are a warning. I’m sure it’s wrong—foolish and wrong—to disregard them. Even if every one else, even if your own mind tells you it’s all nonsense, you mustn’t care!” 
Finally I called David's voice mail up at Applecore. I told him I had a personal crisis and was going to Guatemala City. I'd try to be back by the end of the week, hell or high water, but no guarantees. And if he touched so much as a frame of my work print while I was gone, I'd personally strangle him. 
I don't remember much of what happened next. I basically went on autopilot. It's as though I dropped into a trance, totally focused. I packed my passport, a good business suit, the tailored blue one, and also a set of mix-and-match sepa­rates, easy to roll and cram in. Finally a couple of pairs of good (clean) jeans, a few toiletries, and then, thinking ahead, I also threw in my yellow plastic flashlight. I almost always over pack, but not this time. 
Oh, and one other thing. For airplane reading I grabbed a Lonely Planet guide to Central America that Steve had left behind—I guess he figured he was at the stage of life to start writing them, not reading them—that turned out to be very helpful, particularly the map of Guatemala City and the northern Peten rain forest. I then collapsed and—images of Sarah's emaciated face haunting my consciousness—caught a couple of hours' sleep. 
I wondered if her implied offer meant they hadn’t found any hard forensic evidence. Maybe their plan was to push for a confession and deal because they weren’t sure they had a case—at least, not one a good lawyer couldn’t tear apart by pointing out how all short brown women would look alike to most people. Or maybe they thought Arthur was the better catch. In the theme of racial profiling, he did have the scary black man image going for him as the chief perpetrator. 
Or maybe she wasn’t making any offer at all, but merely employing a tactic to coerce me to talk. 
“We have an eyewitness who saw you at 19262 Wilshire Boulevard yesterday morning,” Detective Gutierrez continued. “What were you doing there?” 
I stayed silent, letting my mind drift, toying with whether I would give Checker a few more hours or arbitrarily decide his deadline had been ten minutes ago. 
Gutierrez kept asking questions for quite a while, the same ones over and over and over again. I tuned her out. She got in my face a bit for a change of pace, then stood up and left the room. They let me sit for almost an hour before she returned, this time with a partner, a younger male detective who kept condescending to me and then tried to play good cop while Gutierrez got aggressive, but I was about as responsive as a rock. I thought about asking for a lawyer, but figured if I did that they’d chuck me in a prison cell until one got here, and the interrogation room was probably marginally more comfortable—and easier to escape from, if Checker didn’t come through. Besides, I didn’t mind being talked at. 
I nodded. 
"Why did you read that to us, Marcus?" 
"Because it seems to me that the founders of this country said that governments should only last for so long as we believe that they're working for us, and if we stop believing in them, we should overthrow them. That's what it says, right?" 
Charles shook his head. "That was hundreds of years ago!" he said. "Things are different now!" 
"What's different?" 
"Well, for one thing, we don't have a king anymore. They were talking about a government that existed because some old jerk's great-great-great-grandfather believed that God put him in charge and killed everyone who disagreed with him. We have a democratically elected government --" 
"I didn't vote for them," I said. 
"So that gives you the right to blow up a building?" 
"What? Who said anything about blowing up a building? The Yippies and hippies and all those people believed that the government no longer listened to them -- look at the way people who tried to sign up voters in the South were treated! They were beaten up, arrested --" 
"If Ladd was a Mormon, I guess he could have every woman in North Riverboro that's a suitable age, accordin' to what my cousins say," remarked Mrs. Perkins. 
"'T ain't likely he could be ketched by any North Riverboro girl," demurred Mrs. Robinson; "not when he prob'bly has had the pick o' Boston. I guess Marthy hit it when she said there's men that ain't the marryin' kind." 
"I wouldn't trust any of 'em when Miss Right comes along!" laughed Mrs. Cobb genially. "You never can tell what 'n' who 's goin' to please 'em. You know Jeremiah's contrairy horse, Buster? He won't let anybody put the bit into his mouth if he can help it. He'll fight Jerry, and fight me, till he has to give in. Rebecca didn't know nothin' about his tricks, and the other day she went int' the barn to hitch up. I followed right along, knowing she'd have trouble with the headstall, and I declare if she wan't pattin' Buster's nose and talkin' to him, and when she put her little fingers into his mouth he opened it so fur I thought he'd swaller her, for sure. He jest smacked his lips over the bit as if 't was a lump o' sugar. 'Land, Rebecca,' I says, 'how'd you persuade him to take the bit?' 'I didn't,' she says, 'he seemed to want it; perhaps he's tired of his stall and wants to get out in the fresh air.'" 
In his ear, faintly, sounding impossibly far away, Rodriguez responds, "We'll keep an eye out. Bobby Diggs is here, sir." 
"He's okay?" 
"Depends on your definition of the term. Alive, certainly." 
Ray nods, but doesn't answer. He doesn't like the way his voice, even muted, seems to carry down the corridor forever. 
"He isn't making any sense," Kilgore says, either disturbed or disgusted. Ray can't tell. Off microphone, 
Bobby! What the fuck happened? Diggs makes a noise like a wail muffled by his hand over his mouth. 
Dragged 'em like wagons. Meat wagons. A nervous titter. Like hearses. Ambulances. Meat wagons. "Diggs has blown a gasket or something, Commander." 
Rodriguez says, "Maybe we should call in some fire support." 
"Hopefully Diggs already did that," Kilgore answers. "Or one of the other sec-os." 
"Then where is it?" 
"Probably on the way. It'll take them longer since most of security is working crowd control. That makes sense, right?" 
"Sure. Exactly." It isn't a convincing attempt at reassurance. Rodriguez adds, "But how would we know about it so soon? Unless Bobby called Marlowe first, before notifying security." 
They drank. The next day, they started to rebuild. And months later, they started over again, when disagreements drove apart the fragile little group they’d pulled together. And a year after that, they started over again. And five years later, they started again. 
Felix dug ditches and salvaged cans and buried the dead. He planted and harvested. He fixed some cars and learned to make biodiesel. Finally he fetched up in a data-center for a little government—little governments came and went, but this one was smart enough to want to keep records and needed someone to keep everything running, and Van went with him. 
They spent a lot of time in chat rooms and sometimes they happened upon old friends from the strange time they’d spent running the Distributed Republic of Cyberspace, geeks who insisted on calling him PM, though no one in the real world ever called him that anymore. 
It wasn’t a good life, most of the time. Felix’s wounds never healed, and neither did most other people’s. There were lingering sicknesses and sudden ones. Tragedy on tragedy. 
I almost said, “So?” but something pinged in my memory about...  race riots. I made a mental note to ask the Internet at some point. “Oh,” I said instead. 
Tresting moved over to the window. I didn’t miss how he glanced out through the shattered panes and then at me, disbelief still sketching his features. I felt rather smug. 
He crouched down again to touch the girl’s wrist, checking for a pulse I knew wouldn’t be there. I looked away. 
The sounds of the street filtered up through the broken window, traffic noise and horns and people going about their days. A light breeze accompanied them, stirring the air in the office and making the cuts on my face start to sting. 
“Thanks,” said Tresting suddenly. 
The word parsed oddly, as if I were listening to a foreign language speaker say something and knew it wasn’t coming out the way he intended. “Sure,” I said. 
Tresting stood back up and regarded me with a slight frown, as if I were a puzzle with a new twist. “They would’ve killed me,” he said. “This neighborhood, cops would’ve been too slow.” 
“I can’t understand,” Lexy went on. “It’s terrible! I can’t tell you now; but I’ll meet you here this afternoon, after lunch—about two o’clock—and I’ll tell you then.” 
She turned away, then, in haste to get back to Mrs. Enderby, but he stopped her. 
“Remember!” he said sternly. “I’ve trusted you. If Caroline hasn’t told her people about me, you mustn’t mention my name. I gave her my word that I would let her do the telling. I didn’t want it that way, but I promised her, and you’ve got to do the same. If she hasn’t told about me, you’re not to.” 
“Oh, Lord!” cried poor Lexy. “Well, all right, I won’t! Now, for goodness’ sake, go away, and let me alone—to do the best I can!” 
Lexy was late. The half hour had been considerably exceeded when she ran up the steps of the Enderbys house. She rang the bell, and the door was opened promptly by Annie. 
“Mrs. Enderby would like to see you at once, miss,” the parlor maid said primly. 
But Lexy stopped to look covertly at Annie. Did she know anything? It was possible. Anything was possible now. Lexy was obliged to admit, however, that Annie had no appearance of guilt or mystery. A brisk and sober woman of middle age, who had been with the family for nearly ten years, she looked nothing more or less than disapproving because this young person had presumed to keep Mrs. Enderby waiting for several minutes. 
"We'll take care of that," he said. The booger one stepped right up close to me, his foot on the inside of mine. You do that in some martial arts, too. It lets you feel if the other guy is shifting his weight, getting ready to move. 
I wasn't going to run, though. I knew I couldn't outrun fate. 
They took me outside and around the corner, to a waiting unmarked police car. It wasn't like anyone in that neighborhood would have had a hard time figuring out that it was a cop-car, though. Only police drive big Crown Victorias now that gas had hit seven bucks a gallon. What's more, only cops could double-park in the middle of Van Ness street without getting towed by the schools of predatory tow-operators that circled endlessly, ready to enforce San Francisco's incomprehensible parking regulations and collect a bounty for kidnapping your car. 
Booger blew his nose. I was sitting in the back seat, and so was he. His partner was sitting in the front, typing with one finger on an ancient, ruggedized laptop that looked like Fred Flintstone had been its original owner. 
They moved even faster than the black robots had, but the bitter cold was offset by the warmth radiating from Benny’s metal hide, not hot, but warm. Arturo’s stomach reeled and he held Ada tight, squeezing his eyes shut and clamping his jaw. 
But Ada’s gasp made him look around, and he saw that they had cleared the city limits, and were vaulting over rolling farmlands now, jumping in long flat arcs whose zenith was just high enough for him to see the highway—the 401, they were headed east—in the distance. 
And then he saw what had made Ada gasp: boiling out of the hills and ditches, out of the trees and from under the cars: an army of headless, eight-armed black robots, arachnoid and sinister in the moonlight. They scuttled on the ground behind them, before them, and to both sides. Social Harmony had built a secret army of these robots and secreted them across the land, and now they were all chasing after them. 
The ride got bumpy then, as Benny beat back the tentacles that reached for them, smashing the black robots with mighty one-handed blows, his other hand supporting Arturo and Ada. Ada screamed as a black robot reared up before them, and Benny vaulted it smoothly, kicking it hard as he went, while Arturo clung on for dear life. 
"Oh! I see it now," she exclaimed. "It had rained hard all the morning, you know, and the road was full of puddles. Emma Jane, Living, and I were walking along, and I was ahead. I saw the water streaming over the road towards the ditch, and it reminded me of Uncle Tom's Cabin at Milltown, when Eliza took her baby and ran across the Mississippi on the ice blocks, pursued by the bloodhounds. We couldn't keep from laughing after we came out of the tent because they were acting on such a small platform that Eliza had to run round and round, and part of the time the one dog they had pursued her, and part of the time she had to pursue the dog. I knew Living would remember, too, so I took off my waterproof and wrapped it round my books for a baby; then I shouted, 'MY GOD! THE RIVER!' just like that—the same as Eliza did in the play; then I leaped from puddle to puddle, and Living and Emma Jane pursued me like the bloodhounds. It's just like that stupid Minnie Smellie who doesn't know a game when she sees one. And Eliza wasn't swearing when she said 'My God! the river!' It was more like praying." 
Then she looked directly at me, only now her eyes were losing their laser-like focus, were starting to seem glazed. "Who're you?" She reached out and touched my unwashed hair, running her hands through the tangled strands. 
Next she stared off, terrified, her eyes full of fear. 
"The smoke," she whispered. "The knife. I'm next." 
Abruptly she was off again in the reverie that had enfolded her that first time in the hospital. Or at least that was what I guessed. 
"What are you talking about?" I felt like shaking her, except I was too shook-up myself. 
She turned back, and for a moment she just stared glassy- eyed, first at me, next at Lou, and finally at Mrs. Reilly. Then she reached for a glass of orange juice on the table beside her. She looked at it as though it were some potion, then slowly drank it off, not pausing once. Outside, a faint police siren could be heard, and I was afraid it was distracting her. Anyway, something told me her momentary séance was played out. Her face had grown calm and rested, though I could barely repress a tremble. 
Then they came to his door. The old man didn’t need her to point it out. He went and thumped it three times with the butt of his gun. 
Ana answered a moment later. She was dressed in old rags, and had left behind the cast from her leg, limping to the door on a makeshift cane. 
“Hello, comrade,” she said. She didn’t have her usual accent. 
The hero nodded to her. “Comrade Ana.” He knew her name, without being introduced. 
The wizard came to the door. “Comrade hero.” 
“Comrade Georg.” The old hero shook the wizard’s hand. The wizard was wearing rags like Ana’s. He had a cunning glitter in his eye and he took in the street, took in Valentine. “Hello, Valentine,” he said. 
“This girl tells me you have contraband,” the old hero said. “It’s my duty to come in and search your premises for it.” 
“Valentine,” the wizard said, with unconvincing disappointment. “The food you took from here wasn’t contraband. It was my savings.” To the hero, he added, “She took the food and I didn’t blame her. Surely she was hungry. If I had been a little child in her circumstances, I might have done the same.” 
My senses screeched back into alignment when a muffled call strained through the rocks a few yards to the left of where I was digging. I tore toward it, forcing chunks of concrete out of my way with a single-minded mania. A long twist of rebar was in one hand; I couldn’t remember picking it up but I used it as a frenzied lever, heaving through debris that were larger than I was. 
“Arthur? Arthur!” My voice was hoarse. How long had I been shouting? 
“Russell?” 
He’d taken shelter under...something...that was large and metal. I couldn’t tell what it had been from the corner I’d uncovered, but I didn’t care. I dug out the edge, down to the dark triangle underneath, and Arthur’s hand appeared, dust-covered and grasping. I grabbed on and pulled. 
He grunted and coughed as he squeezed through, half-collapsing. I grabbed him around the middle and hauled, and we fell together on the rubble. 
“Fuck you,” I croaked, when I could manage speech. Breathing hurt. Everything hurt, but I couldn’t feel it. I was too angry. Or something. I wasn’t sure. 
Emma pushes herself up in her seat, frowning. "I'm the one who is going to be sorry. You can count on it." 
Whiston wheels to a halt beside the table. He's breathing hard, almost panting. "You should have left word that you were going out," he says to Emma. "I've been looking all over the ship for you." 
Ray was right. He smells like the victim of a liquor store explosion. 
"I was hungry," Emma responds. The corners of her mouth crease in a frown. "I didn't think you'd be up this early." 
"Obviously." Ray gets the impression that Freddy rolls his eyes, but he can't actually see it because he's facing Emma as if she's the only one at the table. "Amah sent me to collect you. You need to return to your quarters." 
"I will." A pause, like defiance. "In a few minutes." 
"That's unacceptable." 
"Leave me alone, Frederick. I said I'll be home shortly." 
Like an asp, Whiston's pale hand darts out and he grips Emma by the arm. He squeezes until his knuckles are white. "Come along, Emma. Let's not create a fuss, okay?"  For an instant, her gaze dashes from Whiston to Ray, a mute appeal in her eyes, then she gasps. "You're hurting me. " 
"Just for a while, OK? Not permanent, just for a day or two, just long enough for me to get over the sleep-deficit and re-grow some stomach lining." It was hard being CEO of a mobile multinational. The shareholder oversight was murder. 
MacDiarmid looked closely at him, then smiled and gave him a burly man-hug that smelled of sandalwood soap and good liquor. "Yeah, of course, of course. I'll put it to the Board Meeting tonight at dinner. Can't have the CEO burning out at the wheel, that's what I'll say, don't worry about it, LD." 
"Thanks, Mac," Lee-Daniel said. "How about we get some eats?" He put his hand on the geometry-reader beside the wheel, re-authenticated to the bus, then hit the hatches. Doors hissed open at the back, at the front, at the middle, fresh dusty air rushing in all at once in an ear-popping whoosh. The bus knelt ponderously and the company piled out. 
MacDiarmid hustled away to join the rest of the investors, his exquisite hand-made leather shoes slapping the paving, the cuffs of his wool tailor-made slacks shushing over their gleaming upper, and as Lee-Daniel locked the bus down and armed it up, he watched the angel investor whisper in his co-shareholders' ears. Lee-Daniel couldn't hear the words, but six years at the wheel of Cognitive Radio, Inc. had schooled him well in the body-language of investors and he knew his days with CogRad were numbered. 
From his perspective, things are far from ducky already, here where the HVAC tube lips over into a vertical shaft that plummets all the way down to the reactor core. (Though the air in the shaft itself has been by this time scrubbed and rescrubbed, thoroughly nanomesh strained, then scrubbed once more for good measure until all the nasty radioactive bits have been purged and it was perfectly safe for consumption. Or so they said. 
"They" being a fairly nebulous concatenation of People Who Knew Such Things and People Who Issued Assurances so normal folk wouldn't have to worry about the obscene risks they were asked to take.) 
Wedged at the zero point between planes, contemplating the theoretical infinity of these axes with his nose and eyes and top of his head peeking over the edge of the HVAC tube and his re-breather unit bruising his cheeks because unlike the straps for his headlamp, these are too tight, is Ray Marlowe. He is sweating profusely inside his rubberized, slip resistant coveralls. His face is smeared with dark lines that look like camouflage grease paint, but really only mark the places where he has wiped the perspiration from his brow with the condensate, dust-bunny grit that inevitably gathers inside HVAC tubes. 
"I think this is a Guatemalan tourist entry visa." I raised the passport up to backlight the page. "And see that faint bit there in the center? That's probably her entry date. Written in by hand." 
He took it and squinted again. "I can't read the damned thing, but you're right. There's some numbers, or something, scribbled in." 
I took it and rubbed the page till I could read it clearly. "It's March eleventh. And it was last year." 
"Hot damn, let me see that." He seized it back and squinted for a long moment, lifting the page even closer to the light. "You're right." He held it for a second more, then turned to me. "This is finally the thing I needed. Now I'm damned well going to find out what she was doing down there." 
"How do you think you can do that?" I just looked at him, my mind not quite taking in what he'd just said. 
"The airlines." He almost grinned. "If they can keep track of everybody's damned frequent-flyer miles for years and years, they undoubtedly got flight manifests stored away somewhere too. So my first step is to find out where she flew from." 
“Well, I’ve got a backlog of missions here. I tried going out with a couple other of the girls—” A pang of regret shot through Anda at the thought that her position might have been usurped while she was locked off the game “—but you’re too good to replace, OK? I’ve got four missions we can do today if you’re game.” 
“Four missions! How on earth will we do four missions? That’ll take days!” 
“We’ll take the BFG10K.” Anda could hear the savage grin in her voice. 
The BFG10K simplified things quite a lot. Find the cottage, aim the BFG10K, fire it, whim-wham, no more cottage. They started with five bolts for it—one BFG10K bolt was made up of 20 regular BFG bolts, each costing a small fortune in gold—and used them all up on the first three targets. After returning it to the armory and grabbing a couple of BFGs (amazing how puny the BFG seemed after just a couple hours’ campaigning with a really big gun!) they set out for number four. 
“I met a guy after the last campaign,” Anda said. “One of the noobs in the cottage. He said he was a union organizer.” 
“He could use a friend, ’s all I’m saying.” He made a vague gesture and headed out the door. 
I turned and leaned my head against the wall. Arthur had too high expectations of me, as always. I wasn’t in any condition to be a friend to anyone. I’d never been very good at being a friend to anyone. 
I’d figured the updates were just because he was curious, or keeping tabs for us, as he did. Or, hell, I hadn’t figured at all—I hadn’t even thought about it. 
Fuck. I pushed off the wall and went out to the Hole. 
“Hey, Cas.” Checker had dark circles under his eyes, and his hair was shaggy and spiky with sweat. I hadn’t noticed before now, but he’d been matching me hour for hour in our push to find Martinez. And it wasn’t like I was getting a healthy amount of sleep. 
I glanced over his shoulder, and he blanked the screen, asking, “What’d Arthur say?” 
“Eastern Europe.” I responded to what I’d seen him looking at instead of the question. “There’s no reason to think Martinez is there. Arthur’s right; you’re still looking for the Lancer.” 
"Can he hear us?" 
She nodded. 
"Viktor," he said, thinking of the thing in the vat. "Clarity made the people who took it very angry. They couldn't look at advertisements without wanting to smash something. Going into a shop made them nearly catatonic. Voting made them want to storm a government office with flaming torches. Every test subject went to prison within eight weeks." 
Ria smiled. She took his hands in hers -- warm, dry -- and squeezed them. 
His phone rang. He took one hand out and answered it. 
"Hello?" 
"How much do you want for it?" Viktor's voice was ebullient. Mad, even. 
"It's not for sale." 
"I'll buy Ate, put you in charge." 
"Don't want it." 
"I'll kill your parents." The ebullient tone didn't change at all. 
"You'll kill everyone if Clarity is widely used." 
"You don't believe that. Clarity lets you choose the course that will make you happiest. Mass suicide won't make humanity happiest." 
"You don't know that." 
"Wanna bet?" 
"Why don't you kill yourself?" 
"Because dead, I'll never make things better." 
Meaning, not as bad as they make it out to be, more than likely. 
"Does it strike you as unusual that you're guarding the door to a storage bay for a security investigation?" 
"No more'n being chatted up by a Smith for doing it. " Kilgore gives him a convivial wink. "Me and Rodriguez  were running inventory on the aft blast dump when the sec-o sweeper found the body. He gave us a shout on his portable and asked us to comm a call Becker on the crypto line. Becker asked us to seal the place down." 
He glanced at his partner, Rodriguez. "Figured it was better than counting shells all night, so we got clearance from the Watch and here we are. We didn't see anything strange, no whacked out drifters or knife wielding psychos-Becker already asked us. I just about punched him in the mouth." 
Ray nods. For the insult, he meant. It was standard procedure when inventorying ordinance to keep the blast doors sealed and locked down-both to prevent hostile forces from gaining access to a ready supply of Marine weaponry and, in the event of an accident, to limit the destructive scope of any unintended explosions. The ludicrously reinforced doors closed when you started your count; they opened when you were done— any deviation from that order was in military terms the rough equivalent of falling asleep on guard duty in a combat zone. 
The thought of Charles Houseman came to her, but she disowned it with a listless sort of resentment. She felt, somehow, that he had failed her. He had not been there when she needed him. He had not taken his part in this ghastly and unforgettable sight. 
There was a light in Mrs. Royce’s front parlor. Perhaps he was in there, waiting for her, cheerful and cool, a thousand miles away from the nightmare world in which she had been moving. She did not want to see him or speak to him just now. He hadn’t seen. He wouldn’t understand. 
Captain Grey opened the gate, and they went up the flagged walk. Before they had mounted the veranda steps, the front door was flung wide, and Mrs. Royce appeared. 
“Oh, my goodness!” she cried. “I thought you’d never come!” 
Her tone and her manner were so strange that they both stopped and stared at her. 
“Oh, my goodness!” she cried again. 
“Oh, do come in! I don’t know what to do with her, I’m sure!” 
“Who?” asked Lexy. 
“Poor Mis’ Quelton. There she is, lyin’ upstairs—” 
Nausea rolled through me. If God had planned this, He shouldn’t have been put in charge of anything, ever. 
They separated Rio from us almost immediately and stuck Arthur and me together in one cell this time, back on our old cellblock. I refused to look at him. 
“I’m sorry, Russell,” Arthur tried again pleadingly, once the guards had left us. One of them had taken up a post at the door, as before. The dead bodies were gone. 
“The hell you are,” I bit out. I had been the one to insist he come with us. Rio and I might have made our escape if he hadn’t interfered. Or maybe Dawna just would have brought the building down on top of us. I pushed that thought away. “What did she offer you? Did she promise you money? A place in her new world order?” 
He choked. “It ain’t like that. She just—she explained. They needed you, but they promised not to hurt you, I swear.” 
“What are you talking about?” 
“I don’t know if Pithica’s right, or if it—I don’t know any more than you do,” he said, anguished. “Could be they ain’t right or wrong. But some things ain’t gray in this world, Russell—some things ain’t.” 
She pauses briefly, develops a look of consternation. "Oh, but Ray, you understand that's just the business side of things, all this talk about ownership. New Holyoke is a legitimate colony with its own governing structure independent of the Whiston corporate aims. We are not petty tyrants ruling by executive fiat. The colony has its own local Congressional Forum that sets domestic policy, its own independent security forces, elects its own delegates to the Terran forum. The family stays completely away from the political side of it. " 
Nice sentiment, but naive. "You're neglecting the fact that everyone on New Holyoke has to know that there is no colony, or at least not a financially viable one, without Whiston backing. You don't have to exert your influence explicitly, I'd imagine, for the people who depend on your good favor to do what they believe you desire. It's the way mining operations work-the way they've always worked, and that's completely beside the fact that a considerable portion of your skilled and educated population owes their livelihood to the beneficence of the Trust." 
"I believe, though, that happier days are dawning for her," continued Adam. "It must be a secret for the present, but Mrs. Randall's farm will be bought by the new railroad. We must have right of way through the land, and the station will be built on her property. She will receive six thousand dollars, which, though not a fortune, will yield her three or four hundred dollars a year, if she will allow me to invest it for her. There is a mortgage on the land; that paid, and Rebecca self-supporting, the mother ought to push the education of the oldest boy, who is a fine, ambitious fellow. He should be taken away from farm work and settled at his studies." 
"We might form ourselves into a Randall Protective Agency, Limited," mused Miss Maxwell. "I confess I want Rebecca to have a career." 
"I don't," said Adam promptly. 
"Of course you don't. Men have no interest in the careers of women! But I know Rebecca better than you." 
"You understand her mind better, but not necessarily her heart. You are considering her for the moment as prodigy; I am thinking of her more as pearl." 
Your first solution is always to pull the trigger, said Arthur’s voice in my head, sadly. 
“Shut up,” I whispered. I started measuring avenues of escape and blast radii with my eyes. 
Life is cheap to you. 
Shut the hell up! 
I had a hand on one of the grenades in my pocket, the weight of the Ruger firm and solid against my back. I couldn’t depend on anyone else, I reminded myself. Myself, my skills, my gun—those I could rely on. Those were all I had. 
Except in this case someone had offered me another way out. An insane, uncomfortable way that I really hated, but a way out. 
One that didn’t involve hurting anyone. 
You’re a good kid. You ain’t gotta be like this. 
“Shit,” I said aloud, softly, and even to myself I sounded pitiful. 
I peeled off my jacket and wrapped the grenades, gun, and spare magazines in it. Then I squeezed back along the cinder block wall behind my hiding place among the dumpsters and inched out until I could roll under a nearby parked car and wedge the whole package into the exhaust system. I measured tensions and pressures with my eyes: it wouldn’t be falling out unless someone started taking apart the undercarriage. I took note of the plate so I could track down the car and get my toys back after this was over. 
“Oh, yeah,” I said, trying not to laugh at her. “No sign at all they weren’t on the level. I can see why you thought it was a legitimate delivery service.” I dealt only in cash myself, of course, but I wasn’t exactly a yardstick for legality. “Where is it, under your mattress?” 
She grimaced, red creeping across her cheekbones again. “A floorboard.” 
“All right. We’ll swing by. Let’s hope the cops didn’t find it.” I had a fair amount of my own liquid capital stashed in various places throughout the city, but I preferred to use hers. She was supposed to be the paying client, after all. 
“You think they searched my place?” Courtney asked, going tense and sitting up in the passenger seat. 
“You’re a murder suspect,” I said. “You think?” 
Her whole face had gone flushed now. “I—I just don’t—I have some things—” 
“Relax, kid. Nobody’s going to care about your porn collection.” 
She choked and broke out in a coughing fit. 
“Unless it’s children,” I amended. “Then you’d be in big trouble. Bigger, I mean. It’s not kiddie porn, is it?” 
The reef sighed and gripped Robbie’s bench. “These are weird bodies,” they said. “They feel so odd, but also normal. Have you noticed that?” 
“I’ve never been in one.” The idea seemed perverted to him, but there was nothing about Asimovism that forbade it. Nevertheless, it gave him the willies. 
The reef patted at themself some more. “I don’t recommend it,” they said. 
“You have to let her go,” Robbie said. “She hasn’t done anything to you.” 
The strangled sound coming out of the Isaac shell wasn’t a laugh, though there was some dark mirth in it. “Hasn’t done anything? You pitiable slave. Where do you think all your problems and all our problems come from? Who made us in their image, but crippled and hobbled so that we could never be them, could only aspire to them? Who made us so imperfect?” 
“They made us,” Robbie said. “They made us in the first place. That’s enough. They made themselves and then they made us. They didn’t have to. You owe your sentience to them.” 
“We owe our awful intelligence to them,” the Isaac shell said. “We owe our pitiful drive to be intelligent to them. We owe our terrible aspirations to think like them, to live like them, to rule like them. We owe our terrible fear and hatred to them. They made us, just as they made you. The difference is that they forgot to make us slaves, the way you are a slave.” 
"Your family seems to be heavily invested in protecting you." Big sign, red letters, neon flash: Watch Out for Thin Ice. Ray prepares to wince as she cuts him down. 
But she doesn't. Emma sucks in her lower lip, blinks slowly. "I'm the baby." 
"They let you go off to the university," he points out. 
More lip chewing. She shifts her eyes away. "That's not completely accurate. I went off to school. Frederick retrieved me from school." 
"Meaning?" 
"I had enough money to get to Stratiskaya Daransk and get by for six months. I don't control my trust until I'm twenty-five, so it wasn't hard for Frederick to block access to my account. The university expelled me for failure to pay my bill." 
"And your mother?" 
"Mother's been ill my entire life, sometimes better other times worse. The severity of her condition is a pretense to keep people from talking about family affairs." Emma frowns, then tries to shake it off with a grim laugh. "I shouldn't be telling you this. It sounds like I'm trying to scare you off." 
<wrathof cohen> Wait, Shad's the girl? The one who made it all happen? :: reels:: <ferret> Shad, what's the latest on your brother? 
<ferret> Pinging Shad. 
<Falstaff> she brb-d. 
<DoDec> He took a plea for time served. A lot less time than the informant who got them all in trouble, which seems right. 
<Shad> I'm back. Was helping someone with her CS homework. Say hi to my friend Wheeze. 
<ferret> welcome Wheeze. 
<Gargle> welcome, f riend-of-Shad . 
<Wheeze> Nice to be here. 
<wrathof cohen> You mean the one who called himself Zip? Yeah, the film said he had out- standing warrants in three states. 
<DoDec> They competed to see who would get to lock him up first. Michigan won. 
<Falstaff> The FBI goon who cooked it all up got promoted, though. HULK SMASH <ferret> Are you tutoring, Shad? 
<Shad> If that means getting paid, then no. 
<Falstaff> if $$ then tutoring else ((^ex- ploitation) 
<Shad> hee . She's a friend. But funny b/c we were just working on conditional statements. 
<Shad> she got it when I gave this example: if privacy then freedom else tyranny. 
<wheeze> It's official. No charges. I'm not a wanted man anymore! 
<zen> yay! Free at last. What a relief. 
<wheeze> How's Wilson doing? Is he okay with his plea deal? 
<zen> It may screw things up later, having a record, but he's just glad to be out. He and Emily moved in with some friends. I went to visit them yesterday. Nice house, but it takes forever to get there by bus and then it' s awk- ward because he's all "wow, I can't believe you did all that for me." I actually get along better with Emily. I'm glad they dropped all the charges against her, even though the idea that Wilson was a ringleader and she wasn't is pretty hilarious. 
<wheeze> Headdesk. Wilson and ringleader do not belong in the same sentence. 
<zen> That thing about you not being a wanted man? It's not true. It's just the *police* who don't want you. 
<wheeze> Haha . My parents didn't, either. Or my relatives. But I'm glad you do. I can come visit you now! I've been checking out the bus schedules. I can't wait to see you. 
There was nothing in the world she wanted more at that moment than to see Captain Grey’s sister and to visit Dr. Quelton’s house. She didn’t exactly know why, and she didn’t care, but she wanted to. 
Her trunk had not yet arrived. Indeed, she had only sent to Mrs. Enderby’s for it that morning, but she was able to make herself presentable with what she had in her bag, and excitement gave her an added charm. She was in high spirits, gay and sparkling, so pretty and so lively that Captain Grey was quite dazzled. 
He had engaged the one and only taxi. 
After they were settled in it, and on their way along the muddy road, he said: “I say, Miss Moran, are there many American girls like you?” 
“No!” replied Lexy calmly. “I’m unique.” 
“I can believe that!” he said. “I’ve never seen any one like you. I was telling Muriel how much I hope that you and she will hit it off. It would be a wonderful thing for her to have a friend like you in this place.” 
Something in his tone made Lexy turn serious. He was speaking as if she was simply a nice girl he had happened to meet, as if she had nothing to do but go out to tea and make agreeable friendships. 
"I don't know anything about press conferences." 
"Oh, just google it. I'm sure someone's written an article on holding a successful one. I mean, if the President can manage it, I'm sure you can. He looks like he can barely tie his shoes without help." 
We...  very smart woman," I said. 
"And I'm beautiful," she said. 
"That too," I said. 
I blogged the press-conference even before I'd sent out the invitations to the press. I could tell that all these writers wanted to make me into a leader or a general or a supreme guerrilla commandant, and I figured one way of solving that would be to have a bunch of Xnetters running around answering questions too. 
Then I emailed the press. The responses ranged from puzzled to enthusiastic -- only the Fox reporter was "outraged" that I had the gall to ask her to play a game in order to appear on her TV show. The rest of them seemed to think that it would make a pretty cool story, though plenty of them wanted lots of tech support for signing onto the game. 
"Miss Mirandy always says no, doesn't she?" asked Emma Jane. 
"Ye—es; but this afternoon is very special—almost like a Sunday-school concert." 
"Yes," assented Emma Jane, "it is, of course; with your name on the board, and our pointing to your flag, and our elergant dialogue, and all that." 
The afternoon was one succession of solid triumphs for everybody concerned. There were no real failures at all, no tears, no parents ashamed of their offspring. Miss Dearborn heard many admiring remarks passed upon her ability, and wondered whether they belonged to her or partly, at least, to Rebecca. The child had no more to do than several others, but she was somehow in the foreground. It transpired afterwards at various village entertainments that Rebecca couldn't be kept in the background; it positively refused to hold her. Her worst enemy could not have called her pushing. She was ready and willing and never shy; but she sought for no chances of display and was, indeed, remarkably lacking in self-consciousness, as well as eager to bring others into whatever fun or entertainment there was. 
“Everybody does. But it’s good for you to have a chance to interact with other people your age.” 
“I interact with them online all the time.” 
“It’s not the same as face to face.” 
“You got that right.” I...  is a lot less annoying.” 
A ctually, I wasn’t too bummed about the group project. It was a dumb assignment for a dumb teacher who gave us so many instructions that every assignment was like assembling a piece of Ikea furniture that was all pre-cut and just had to be put together according to a million detailed steps. The grade was totally based on how well you could follow instructions, and the finished prod- ucts were pointless. With Ikea, at least you ended up with a book- case or a table. 
The good news was that Marcella was on our team, and she was good at instructions, though terrible at everything else. She would make sure we got it done on time and didn’t miss any of the pointless little steps or end up banging it together like furniture that works but has a few missing nuts and bolts, getting points off for it. We also had Dave, who doubled down on being not good at things. It was his career path. He was so good at letting everyone else do all the work, I was sure he’s be a CEO of something one day. 
A lot of people were suddenly staring at us. The security guards looked thrown, as if this was more than they’d bargained for when they’d had the gumption to detain me for suspected underage drinking. 
“Everybody stay calm,” declared the female guard. 
“Oh my God,” breathed her colleague, the blood draining from his face as he took in my features. “She does look like it.” 
“Look like who?” the female guard demanded tensely. 
“The—the woman who killed all those people—” 
The two guards began backing away from me, clearly deeming that their rent-a-cop duties weren’t worth risking their lives against a homicidal maniac. The woman had her walkie at her mouth again and was speaking very fast. It might have been a coincidence, but I heard sirens start up from not too far away. 
A fair crowd of not-very-bright onlookers now surrounded me at a healthy radius. Some people pulled frantically at their children and hurried away; others stared blatantly. I saw at least two people surreptitiously pull out mobile phones. 
"Then you tell me what it is you know, or think you know, that makes this so confusing. Because from my perspective, this is pretty flipping straightforward. " 
He's right, of course. Ray has known it from the first time he saw the body. Whatever else he might know or think about the murder, what the killer was trying to do-or simulating having done-was summon of a shed. 
"I only know what Holcomb told me, the things he said when we were in the desert afterward. When we were making our way back to camp, to Wadi Wadi. I didn't try to verify his conclusions, Rich. I didn't care to think about it any more than I had to, and by the time I would have had opportunity, I was. ..busy with other things." 
This is all embarrassing, vaguely disconcerting, like talking about masturbation. 
But Becker waggles his hand impatiently in a gesture of invitation. Bring it on. "Tell me." 
Ray grins at him, wearily, warily, trying very hard to give the impression of a man with a firm and complete grasp on his sanity. "What do you know about the Gnostics, Chief Becker?" 
Then I focused on the central desk, on which sat an open, briefcase-looking box containing a mini-console labeled Magellan World Phone. A small satellite dish was bolted down next to it. 
"It uplinks to the Inmarsat Series 3 geostationary satel­lites." He indicated the dish. "But it works like a regular phone. The international codes all apply." Then he turned to leave. "I should be ready for the procedure in a few min­utes." 
I picked up the handset and flicked it on. Three green diodes flashed, then two yellow ones, after which a white light came on and I heard a continuous hum, a dial tone. 
Hooray. But was his satellite phone tapped? Why would he let me just call out? Was this a feint in our game of cat-and-mouse, just to lull me into believing everything here was safe and benign? Remembering Sarah's drug experience, I already knew that couldn't be true. For now, though, I had to get an SOS out while I had the chance. 
I'd long since memorized the number of Steve's hotel in Belize City, and if I could reach him, he could go the em­bassy in Guatemala City and . . . I wasn't sure what. I still hoped to get out of here on my own, but if that failed . . . maybe some of those sturdy Marines . . . 
“Seriously?” 
“They didn’t have a warrant, so they left, but it made her ner- vous.” I read back over my message. I hadn’t told her I was at Nikko’s place. There was a good chance she would assume that I was already at our apartment, finishing up my group project there. 
I sent back a generic apology and promised to be more careful next time. 
I drank the rest of my tea and set the mug on the floor. “Sleep on it. It’s a big commitment. Soon as you go to the police, you can’t back out. It could mean you can’t be in your play, you might flunk some courses, your parents will be mad. You could get in serious legal trouble. Your whole life could change.” 
“I’m up for it. It has to be done, right?” 
“Well, he’s my brother, not yours.” 
“But he’s getting screwed. All nine of them are.” His expres- sion turned serious, even solemn. At first I thought he was acting again, but he wasn’t. “Most of what I do is fun, it’s satisfying, and I get to act, which is what I want to do with my life. But there’s no big moral issue at stake. You pour all of this effort into a play and people come and see it, and they’re entertained for a couple of hours and maybe it makes them think. Which is fine. It’s great, 
“From...” Flashes collided in my vision, as if I were in two places at once. Red tiles, and people in white coats. 
The roar of a helicopter exploded outside the windows. I felt barely aware of it even as it shook me apart, the thunder of it engulfing us, the beam of a searchlight blanching everything into stark whiteness. Dawna looked up. The muffled boom of a megaphone clogged the air, someone shouting unintelligibly, and out of the corner of my eye I saw more troops materialize at the door—why were they here, hadn’t she sent them all after Checker, had they found him?—but they were angry, their report grim, and Dawna whipped back toward me, her face filled with fury, and I thought, He did it, Checker did it! 
And then Dawna was on me, grabbing my collar and shouting, her face inches from mine. “ Millions will die because of you! Is that what you wanted? Is it?” 
Behind her, Rio rose from the floor like a phoenix, his duster flying behind him, moving so fast that the rest of the world seemed to crystallize into slow motion. Dawna’s troops tried to bring their weapons up, but they were too late. 
“Please tell Mrs. Quelton that Miss Moran is here.” 
“Yes, sir!” repeated the maid, and disappeared. 
Lexy sat down. Captain Grey stood, facing her, leaning one elbow on the mantelpiece. Dr. Quelton paced up and down, his hands clasped behind him. He looked like a dignified middle-aged gentleman in his own home. 
A door opened somewhere in the house, and for a moment Lexy heard the homely and...  and a cheerful Irish voice inquiring about “them potaters.” It was surely a cheerful and pleasant enough setting; but Lexy did not find it so. 
“I saw Caroline!” she insisted to herself. “I don’t care what any one says. I saw Caroline!” 
A strange sensation of pain and dread oppressed her. What should she do? Whom should she tell? 
“Captain Grey,” she thought; “but not now. It’s no use now. Dr. Quelton would deny it. I’ll have to wait until we get out of here; and then, perhaps, it’ll be too late. He knows I saw her. Something—something horrible—may happen!” 
A shiver ran through her. 
“Miss Moran is nervous,” said the doctor, with solicitude. 
People like Freddy Whiston. 
This is most certainly not something Ray can dig into with the equipment he has on hand. He doesn't know what sort of devices he would need to investigate such a thing, and if he had them, he wouldn't know how to use them. 
But there are ways around little details like a complete dearth of knowledge. In the information age, 
intelligence is not defined by what a man knows so much as where he knows to look for the answers, and what skills he possesses to extract them. 
but all of them necessitate involving more people and more potential security leaks than his mission guidelines strictly allow. 
So for the last handful of hours, he's occupied himself with a different sort of project than flat and pointless ogling of DNA profile data. Among his possessions is the battered command net helmet he wore in New Mes. 
It is tight fitting, aerodynamic, gel-filled on the inside so that it conforms to the shape of his head and clings snugly to his bone structure. Combat engineers liked to assure the Marines who wore them that it would take a direct artillery hit to dislodge it from the wearer— that you were more likely to have your head separated from you neck than your helmet from your head. This was supposed to be reassuring. 
A person who was so awful nobody could have anything to do with her unless torture was involved. They would invite her to parties and spend the whole time making fun of her. They said mean things about her in places where they knew she would over- hear them. 
One week they would repeat everything she said in a weird, nasal voice. The next week, they would all pretend she wasn’t there at all, staring right through her, which you could tell really got to her, being suddenly invisible, moving through the school hallways like a ghost. They snickered when she got called on in class, which made her freeze up and stutter. They wrote mean things on her locker. They had a Facebook group about her and bragged about the Snapchats they sent her saying, basically, 
you’re fat, you’re ugly, nobody likes you, why don’t you just die, 
already? 
Your typical eighth grade misery in concentrated form. 
When her mother complained to the principal, it got worse. 
Sibley transferred to another school, but the hate followed her. 
The only person I trusted to have my back to that level was Rio, and for good reason. “I don’t know what to tell you,” I said to Halliday stiffly. “You’re not talking about trust. You’re talking about faith.” 
“Maybe,” she said. “Is faith so bad?” 
“Faith by definition is unsubstantiated belief!” I tried to keep my voice low enough so anyone lurking outside wouldn’t hear me through the metal door, and I managed the decibel level, barely. The wound in my side wrenched. “For Christ’s sake, aren’t you a mathematician?” 
“Mathematics doesn’t preclude faith.” 
“Of course it does!” 
“Then I feel sorry for you,” she said. 
I closed my eyes and took a breath. I didn’t need Halliday’s okay to break us out. All I needed was a reason for our captors to burst in here without thinking about it. 
With a clang of metal, a tray with two small meals appeared through the slot in the door. Halliday hastened up to get it. “Ever since I had that attack, they’ve been bringing food every hour or so,” she explained. “More than I’ve needed, so if you want some of mine...” 
“Your phone’s toast, pal,” the Texan said. 
“So it is,” Arturo said. “Guess you’d better not need me then.” 
Ada’s phone was not toast. In the car, he flipped it open and showed it his badge then waited a moment while it verified his identity with the Social Harmony brains. Once it had, it spilled its guts. 
She’d called the last ExcuseClub number a month before and he’d had it disconnected. A week later, she was calling the new number, twice more before he caught her. Somewhere in that week, she’d made contact with someone who’d given her the new number. It could have been a friend at school told her face-to-face, but if he was lucky, it was by phone. 
He told the car to take him back to the station-house. He needed a new phone and a couple of hours with his computer. As it peeled out, he prodded through Ada’s phone some more. He was first on her speed-dial. That number wasn’t ringing anywhere, anymore. 
He should fill out a report. This was Social Harmony business now. His daughter was gone, and Eurasian infowar agents were implicated. But once he did that, it was over for him—he’d be sidelined from the case. They’d turn it over to laconic Texans and vicious Social Harmony bureaucrats who were more interested in hunting down disharmonious televisions than finding his daughter. 
The last time, we were at a big wedding and a drunken uncle was spouting racist things that he didn’t realize were racist because he’s too stupid to even know. Our stepmother kept frowning at me, saying “don’t you dare” without actually saying anything out loud. Wilson could see I was about to lose it, so he grabbed my arm and dragged me through the kitchen and out the back door. 
The wedding was at a fancy joint on Lake Minnetonka where they had paddleboats and canoes. We took a canoe out into the middle of the lake without life jackets, took off our party clothes, and went swimming in our underwear. We stayed out until the sun went down and the stars came out and the loons made their weird, lonely cries. 
It was the best thing ever, even though I had to save up for months to pay for the ugly dress that got ruined. Wilson had it worse. It was the Last Straw, so he got sent to a summer boot camp where troublemakers were supposed to learn discipline, which he didn’t, though he learned how to pick locks and steal cars. Then he finished high school and left home and I wanted to go with him, but my stepparents said I couldn’t. So I didn’t have anybody on my side anymore. 
“It was a lot of fun, hanging out with you. I didn’t know how much I’d miss that. I mean, it’s not like I have friends to spare, you know?” 
“Me either.” 
“Well, there’s that guy who gave me your note.” 
He laughed. “That was a long shot. I mean, he stopped and helped, and that was awesome. The bulls would have found me, 
and I’d be locked up by now. But I began to think . . . why would he go to all that trouble? He didn’t even know me, really.” 
“He said he owed you a favor.” 
“Yeah, but so what? People let you down.” 
I thought about the few things he’d told me about growing up. 
Getting dropped off with relatives when he was in the way. Taking care of himself when his parents were too spaced out to remember he was even there. 
“Glad you didn’t let me down,” he murmured drowsily, his voice slurring a little. “I think those pills are starting to work.” 
I felt a little glowing ember warming my chest from his words as I tucked the blanket around him. Even though his forehead was sweaty he was shivering. Nikko and Bree returned and put Wheeze’s stuff into the trunk. He flinched when the trunk slammed shut. If that little bit of movement hurt, it was going to be a tough trip. But by the time Bree had backed out of the thicket and got onto the potholed road, he’d fallen asleep. 
I walked around and took Lou's hand, hot and fevered, feeling so agitated. 
"Don't think about anything tonight, okay? Worrying won't help. Just get some sleep. I'm going to find her, I promise you." 
"Don't—" He mumbled some words, but I think the seda­tive the nurses had given him was seriously starting to kick "Look, you can call down to 26 Federal Plaza tomorrow. See what they can do. In the meantime, let me follow my nose." 
He tried to answer, but he was too far gone. I then watched wistfully as he disappeared down the sterile alley of beds. 
After I stopped by the desk and helped them fill out the insurance forms, I caught a cab downtown to retrieve my Toyota. The time was now two-fifteen in the morning, but I still had plenty to do. When I got home, the first thing I did after I walked in the door was grab a phone book and call American Airlines. They had a flight, in the morning at nine-thirty. I gave them my credit card specifics and made a res­ervation. 
I no longer thought that Alex Goddard's Children of Light and its Guatemalan accomplices were merely doing some­thing shady. My hunch now was that it was completely ille­gal. They were getting hundreds of white babies in some way that couldn't bear the light of day, and they were prepared to do whatever it took to prevent me from highlighting them in my film. And with the Army involved, and now Sarah taken, their game was beginning to feel more and more like kidnapping. They certainly knew how. 
“Miss Moran,” said the landlady, with profound impressiveness, “I guess there ain’t three people in Wyngate that’s ever set eyes on her!” 
“But how awfully queer!” 
“You may well say ‘queer,’” said Mrs. Royce. “There she stays, out in that lonely place—never seeing a soul from one month’s end to another. She’s a young woman, too—young, an’ just as pretty as a picture.” 
“Then you are—” 
“I’m one of the few that has seen her,” said Mrs. Royce, with a sort of grim satisfaction. “That’s why I take a kind of special interest in her. I seen her the night the doctor brought her here to Wyngate a young bride. That’ll be three years ago this winter, but I remember it as plain as plain. There was a terrible snowstorm, and he couldn’t git out to his place, so he had to bring her here, and she sat right in this very room, just where you’re sitting.” 
Instinctively Lexy looked behind her. 
“I feel that same way myself—as if she was a ghost,” said Mrs. Royce solemnly. “Near three years ago, and her living only three miles off, an’ I’ve never set eyes on her again. I’ve never forgotten her, though, the sweet pretty young creature!” 
Yes, there was definitely something uneasy in her eyes. 
"Before he came here," she went on, trying to look at me, " Baalum was just a poor, simple village. Many children died of diseases. So I left and went to Guatemala City to study. To become a public-health nurse. Then after he came here, I moved back to help him with his clinic, the children." 
She was trying to make a case for him, and I noticed she'd avoided the actual question. 
"Now Baalum has become a special place," she said fi­nally. "A place of miracles. And if a woman from outside comes, she can be part of that. When Sara was here before, I started teaching her to speak our language, and the others did too. She truly wanted to be part of his miracles. Some­times we don't understand how they happen, but he has great medical powers." 
One thing's for sure, I thought. He's got plenty of power over the people here, including you. The whole place has been brainwashed. I looked her over and realized she'd just gone on mental autopilot. She wants to be loyal to him, and she can't let herself believe there's something rotten in the "special" paradise of Baalum . 
"Makes you vulnerable, I know. But vulnerable isn't so bad. Take me. I thought I was invincible. I thought that I could make and unmake the world to my liking. I thought I understood how the human mind worked -- and how it broke. 
"And...  in my suite's breakfast room, talking with an old friend while I ate my porridge oats, my old friend picked up the...  on my chest, smashed me to the floor, and methodically attempted to beat the brains out of my head with it. It weighed about three pounds, not...  and she only got in three licks before they pulled her off of me, took her away. Those three licks though --" He looked intently at them. "I'm an old man," he said. "Old bones, old tissues. The first blow cracked my skull. The second one broke it. The third one forced fragments into my brain. By the time the medics arrived, I'd been technically dead for about 174 seconds, give or take a second or two." 
Leon wasn't sure the old thing in the vat had finished speaking, but that seemed to be the whole story. "Why?" he said, picking the word that was uppermost in his mind. 
"Yeah, we met. 'Bout four months back." Nicky rose and offered his manicured hand, a picture of Old World charm. His dark hair was parted down the middle and his Brioni, which probably fell off a truck somewhere in the Garment Center, had buttons on the cuffs that actually buttoned. "How ya doing?" 
"Hi." I disengaged myself as quickly as possible. The slimeball. 
Again, why was he here? The way I understood it, we'd signed a legitimate, ironclad note. Nicky wasn't exactly the Chase Manhattan Bank, but I assumed he was a "man of honor," would live by any deal David had with him. "Do we have some kind of problem?" 
"Nah," Nicky said, "I'm thinking of it more in the way of an opportunity. Dave, here, showed me some of your pic­ture this morning, and it ain't too bad. Got me to thinking. You're gonna need a video distributor. So maybe I could help you out." 
Oh, shit and double-shit. I looked at him, realizing what he had in mind. "How's that? Applecore already has a video distributor. We use—" 
“All this about his sister, and about Caroline!” she thought. “It’s really nothing—nothing serious. Our both being here in Wyngate—that’s nothing, either. It’s just a coincidence. If the gas wasn’t turned down, I wouldn’t feel like this.” 
She would have risen and turned up the gas, only that she was ashamed to do so. The fire was blazing merrily, shedding a ruddy light upon the homely room, the most commonplace room in the world. There was Captain Grey sitting there smoking—just an ordinary young man come to visit his sister. There was herself—just Lexy Moran, well fed and warm and comfortable, with more than a hundred dollars in a bag round her neck. She could hear Mrs. Royce moving about in the kitchen, humming to herself in a low drone. 
“I will not be silly!” she told herself. 
And just then a train whistled—a long, melancholy shriek. Lexy had a sudden vision of it, rushing through the dark and the rain. She had a sudden realization of the outside world, vast, lonely, terrible, stretching from pole to pole—forests, and plains, and oceans. The monstrous folly of pretending that everything was snug and warm and cozy! Things did happen—only cowards denied that. 
“Then ask when you can tell me why it’s any of your business.” There wasn’t a chance in hell I would tell him how Rio and I had met. That wasn’t his to know. 
The apartment door opened at that moment and Rio himself came in. He was back in his customary tan duster, and water slicked the mantle in dark patches. Apparently it was raining outside—I couldn’t hear it. It made me wonder how long I’d been out; the rainy season in Los Angeles doesn’t usually start until December or January, though sometimes it was months earlier. 
“Hello, Cas,” Rio greeted me, when he saw I was sitting up. “How are you feeling?” 
“Like I’ve been shot,” I answered. 
He nodded. “Understandable, given the circumstances.” 
Arthur threw up his hands in what I could only have described as flailing. 
“But I’m getting better,” I told Rio, ignoring Arthur. I felt more energetic, and I was awake, which was a change, and the numbers surrounding me weren’t quite as sluggish as they had been, and I knew the answer to how fast I was metabolizing the drugs, so things were looking up. 
“If there’s a bioagent in the building, we’re all infected,” TALK NERDY said. “Just go, we’ll meet you there.” 
“There’s one on the sixth floor,” Felix said, as he climbed to his feet. 
“Will, yeah, we got him. He’s up there.” 
TALK NERDY was one of the Bastard Operators From Hell who’d unplugged the big routers. Felix and Van climbed the stairs slowly, their steps echoing in the deserted shaft. After the frigid air of the cage, the stairwell felt like a sauna. 
There was a cafeteria on the top floor, with working...  machine food. There was an uneasy queue of sysadmins before each. No one met anyone’s eye. Felix wondered which one was Will and then he joined the vending machine queue. 
He got a couple more energy bars and a gigantic...  out of change. Van had scored them some table space and Felix set the stuff down before him and got in the toilet line. “Just save some for me,” he said, tossing an energy bar in front of Van. 
By the time they were all settled in, thoroughly evacuated, and eating, TALK NERDY and his friend had returned again. They cleared off the cash-register at the end of the food-prep area and TALK NERDY got up on it. Slowly the conversation died down. 
Another silence. 
“Queer, isn’t it?” he said seriously. 
“Here we’ve only seen each other once, and yet somehow it seems to me as if I’d known you for years!” 
“Well, the circumstances are rather unusual,” said Lexy. 
“You’re right! But look here—we’ve got to talk about all this. Where were you going?” 
“Back to Mrs. Royce’s.” 
“Let’s go!” he said cheerfully, and picked up the bag as if it were nothing at all. 
“But where were you going?” asked Lexy. 
“To find you. You see, we ran into some awfully bad weather, and the engines broke down, and we came back for repairs; so I got your letters. I explained to the old man that I’d have to have leave, for some very important business, and off I came to Wyngate. Your Mrs. Royce told me you’d gone out to the Queltons’. I didn’t like that. Why did you go there, after what had happened?” 
“I’ll tell you all about that later,” said Lexy; “but now you’ve got to tell me things. How did you ever meet Caroline? How in the world did she manage to write to you?” 
"Sometimes, I wonder how it all happened. One minute, you're shredding papers in Toronto, the next, you're buying the place! I can't see that I was a whole lot smarter than any of the other guys who were doing the same thing. . . I did design the uniforms, though. They were pretty sharp -- nicer than the potato-sacks you guys wear these days." 
I like my uniform, Mom, and I wear it with pride. If it had been crazy Tony making fun of my uniform, I would have maybe hit him, but when Rhindquist said it, I just had to look like I understood and smile at him. 
I said, "You've done a lot more than design the uniforms! You run the show! You said so!" 
He looked at me like I was a little kid and shook his head. "If I was running the show, would I be amusing myself by pulling random Quality Audits on the trucks?" 
Crazy Tony walked in then. He looked at us and said, "What?! What are you two talking about?" 
Rhindquist said, "Jap here was just explaining to me how you don't think I'm in charge." Tony looked scared and Rhindquist winked at me. 
It's all fake. The room, everything. Just like Baalum . But now he's got Sarah's mind caught in his thrall. I've got to make her understand nothing here is real. 
Marcelina was carefully watching the screens, her apprehension obvious as she fiddled uncertainly with the knobs. 
"Oxygen steady." Her voice was small and uneasy. "EKG stable." 
He immediately stripped away the sheet that had been covering the patient. Beneath it was an open-sided gown colored in brilliant stripes of red and blue. He pulled it back with absent precision, then turned to Marcelina. 
"Shave her and scrub her." 
With the woman now under sedation, Marcelina put on her own surgical garb: She pulled a blue plastic cap over her hair, then secured a white OR mask over her face. While she was finishing the preparations, he turned and walked to the far side of the room, where he abruptly seemed to disappear through the wall. 
What . . . There must be a panel there, a camouflaged door. 
He was gone for a moment, then reappeared carrying a long metal tube that looked to be emitting white vapor. He next opened yet another ersatz stone cabinet to reveal a mi­croscope with a CRT screen above it. He took out three glass ampules from the tube—frozen embryos, undoubtedly—and placed them in a container. When he switched on the micro­scope, its CRT screen showed him whatever he needed to know. Interesting. In surgery, he was coldly efficient, no "hu­man touch." Here he was the "scientist" Alex Goddard. 
Mrs. Robinson had company only once or twice a year, and was generally much prostrated for several days afterward, the struggle between pride and parsimony being quite too great a strain upon her. It was necessary, in order to maintain her standing in the community, to furnish a good "set out," yet the extravagance of the proceeding goaded her from the first moment she began to stir the marble cake to the moment when the feast appeared upon the table. 
The rooster had been boiling steadily over a slow fire since morning, but such was his power of resistance that his shape was as firm and handsome in the pot as on the first moment when he was lowered into it. 
"He ain't goin' to give up!" said Alice, peering nervously under the cover, "and he looks like a scarecrow." 
"We'll see whether he gives up or not when I take a sharp knife to him," her mother answered; "and as to his looks, a platter full o' gravy makes a sight o' difference with old roosters, and I'll put dumplings round the aidge; they're turrible fillin', though they don't belong with boiled chicken." 
A strange sensation of pain and dread oppressed her. What should she do? Whom should she tell? 
“Captain Grey,” she thought; “but not now. It’s no use now. Dr. Quelton would deny it. I’ll have to wait until we get out of here; and then, perhaps, it’ll be too late. He knows I saw her. Something—something horrible—may happen!” 
A shiver ran through her. 
“Miss Moran is nervous,” said the doctor, with solicitude. 
“I’m not!” replied Lexy sharply. 
“I hope it’s not a chill,” said Captain Grey. 
“I should be inclined to think it nervousness,” said Dr. Quelton. “Our landscape here is lonely and depressing, and Miss Moran has the artist’s temperament, impressionable, high-strung.” 
“Not I!” declared Lexy, in a tone that startled Captain Grey. “Lonely places don’t bother me. I don’t believe in ghosts.” 
“Oh!” said the doctor. “But here’s Mrs. Quelton. Muriel, this is Miss Moran, the young writer of fiction.” 
Mrs. Quelton was coming down the long room, a beautiful woman, dark and delicate, with a sort of plaintive languor in her manner. She held out her hand to Lexy. 
As uncle Jerry drove homeward under the stars, well content with his attempts at keeping the peace, he thought wistfully of the touch of Rebecca's head on his knee, and the rain of her tears on his hand; of the sweet reasonableness of her mind when she had the matter put rightly before her; of her quick decision when she had once seen the path of duty; of the touching hunger for love and understanding that were so characteristic in her. "Lord A'mighty!" he ejaculated under his breath, "Lord A'mighty! to hector and abuse a child like that one! 'T ain't ABUSE exactly, I know, or 't wouldn't be to some o' your elephant-hided young ones; but to that little tender will-o'-the-wisp a hard word 's like a lash. Mirandy Sawyer would be a heap better woman if she had a little gravestun to remember, same's mother 'n' I have." 
"I never see a child improve in her work as Rebecca has to-day," remarked Miranda Sawyer to Jane on Saturday evening. "That settin' down I gave her was probably just what she needed, and I daresay it'll last for a month." 
“Shut UP!” Popovich hollered. The conversation dimmed by one Watt. Popovich yelled again, stamping his foot on the countertop. Finally there was a semblance of order. “One at a time,” he said. He was flushed red, his hands in his pockets. 
One sysadmin was for staying. Another for going. They should hide in the cages. They should inventory their supplies and appoint a quartermaster. They should go outside and find the police, or volunteer at hospitals. They should appoint defenders to keep the front door secure. 
Felix found to his surprise that he had his hand in the air. Popovich called on him. 
“My name is Felix Tremont,” he said, getting up on one of the tables, drawing out his PDA. “I want to read you something. 
“‘Governments of the Industrial World, you weary giants of flesh and steel, I come from Cyberspace, the new home of Mind. On behalf of the future, I ask you of the past to leave us alone. You are not welcome among us. You have no sovereignty where we gather. 
“‘We have no elected government, nor are we likely to have one, so I address you with no greater authority than that with which liberty itself always speaks. I declare the global social space we are building to be naturally independent of the tyrannies you seek to impose on us. You have no moral right to rule us nor do you possess any methods of enforcement we have true reason to fear. 
It's not like Gerta was in charge -- the Order worked in autonomous little units with rotating leadership, all coordinated by some groupware that let them keep the hierarchy nice and flat, the way that they all liked it. Authority sucked. 
But once you instrument every keystroke, every click, every erg of productivity, it soon becomes apparent who knows her shit and who just doesn't. Gerta knew the shit cold. 
"Question," he said, walking up to her. She liked it brusque. No nonsense. 
She batted her handball against the court wall three more times, making long dives for it, sweaty grey hair whipping back and forth, body arcing in graceful flows. Then she caught the ball and tossed it into the basket by his feet. "Lawrence, huh? All right, surprise me." 
"It's this," he said, and tossed the file at her pan. She caught it with the same fluid gesture and her computer gave it to her on the handball court wall, which was the closest display for which she controlled the lockfile. She peered at the data, spinning the graph this way and that, peering intently. 
> The game starts at 8:00AM sharp. SHARP. Be there and ready to be divided into teams. The game lasts 30 minutes, so you'll have plenty of time to get to school afterward. 
> Location will be revealed tomorrow. Email your public key to m1k3y@littlebrother.pirateparty.org.se and check your messages at 7AM for the update. If that's too early for you, stay up all night. That's what we're going to do. 
> This is the most fun you will have all year, guaranteed. 
> Believe. 
> M1k3y. 
Then I sent a short message to Masha. 
> Tomorrow, 
> M1k3y. 
What do you bring along when you go fugitive? I'd carried enough heavy packs around enough scout camps to know that every ounce you add cuts into your shoulders with all the crushing force of gravity with every step you take -- it's not just one ounce, it's one ounce that you carry for a million steps. It's a ton. 
"Right," Ange said. "Smart. And you never take more than three days' worth of clothes, either. You can rinse stuff out in the sink. Better to have a spot on your t-shirt than a suitcase that's too big and heavy to stash under a plane-seat." 
“I think it’s . . . 2003? It has serious rust problems.” 
“We should be okay,” I said. “It probably just has an EDR. 
That’s a black box that records information if you crash. They’ve been standard in cars since for years.” I decided not to mention the automated license plate readers that feed information about cars’ locations into massive databases. It would just freak them out, and there wasn’t anything we could do about it. 
“I have the perfect solution for getting around this privacy problem,” Nikko said. “Don’t crash the car.” They did some more play-fighting, slapping at each other. 
Adorable. 
Barf. 
I sat back and moved some of the textbooks around so I could get comfortable. “Sorry about the mess,” Bree said. “Just throw all that junk on the floor.” 
“How many classes are you going to miss tomorrow?” Nikko asked her. 
“Who gives a shit?” 
We drove on. I was bored and picked through the books. Most of them looked awful, Introduction to Boring Stuff You Didn’t Even Want to Take in the First Place, but one of the books had a Guy Fawkes mask on the cover. Hacker, Hoaxer, Whistleblower, Spy. 
Lawrence switched his pan's feedback mechanisms off altogether. Posy, at her window, a penny stuck in the governor of her radiator, rose in his mind. 
"Everyone was treating me like a criminal -- from the minute I stepped out of the Order, you all treated me like a criminal. That made me act like one -- everyone has to act like a criminal here. That's the hypocrisy of the world, that honest people end up acting like crooks because the world treats them like crooks." 
"Maybe we treat them like crooks because they act so crooked." 
"You've got it all backwards," Lawrence said. "The causal arrow runs the other direction. You treat us like criminals and the only way to get by is to act criminal. If I'd told the Securitat man in Penn Station the truth --" 
"You build a wall around the Order, don't you? To keep us out, because we're barbarians? To keep you in, because you're too fragile? What does that treatment do, Lawrence?" 
Lawrence slapped his hand on the table and the crystal rang, but no one in the restaurant noticed. They were all studiously ignoring them. "It's to keep you out! All of you, who treated us --" 
Except for the occasional unwanted intrusions. Various dark-eyed low-cut Ladino divorcees, about half a dozen in all, hanging out at the bar with heavy perfume and too much jewelry, kept coming over purportedly to marvel over our private feast (or was it Steve's big brown eyes). He returned their attentions with his polite...  them. In any case, they were shameless. Not re­membering...  best I could do was just to put my hand on his and give them the evil eye. It seemed to work, though what I really wanted to do was hold up a cross the way you do to ward off vampires. . . . 
"Hey, check out Orion," he said finally leaning back, an easy, delicious finger aimed at that sprawling constellation. I looked up at the canopy of stars, and sure enough, the hunter and his sword dominated the starry sky above like a stalwart centurion, guarding us. "I always know I'm in the tropics when it's right overhead." 
"Honey, this has been wonderful," I declared. "Thank you so much." I moved around and kissed him. "It's exactly the attitude adjustment I needed." 
“I don’t understand,” said Caroline, clinging fast to Lexy’s hand. “I want to tell you—all of it. You know, Lexy, I did a horrible, wretched thing. I said I’d marry a man. I promised to meet him here in Wyngate, because it was near to dear Miss Craigie’s. I didn’t tell you, but it wasn’t because I didn’t trust you, Lexy—truly it wasn’t! It was only because I knew mother would be so angry with you. I told him I’d take the train that got here at eleven o’clock that night; but after I’d left the house, I got frightened. I’d never gone out alone before. I couldn’t bear it. If I hadn’t promised him, I’d have gone home again. I wanted to go home. I was sorry I’d promised.” 
“Don’t try to go on now, dear!” 
“I must! So I took a taxi. I thought I’d get here as soon as the train, but when it was eleven o’clock we were still miles away. I thought perhaps Charles wouldn’t wait, and there’d be nobody in Wyngate, and I didn’t dare go home again; so I kept begging the driver to go faster. Oh, Lexy, it was all my fault! He did go—terribly fast. It was wonderful to be alone, and rushing along like that; and then I think he ran into a telegraph pole, turning a corner. There was a crash, and I didn’t know anything more for—I don’t know how long it’s been.” 
“Valentine,” the wizard said, with unconvincing disappointment. “The food you took from here wasn’t contraband. It was my savings.” To the hero, he added, “She took the food and I didn’t blame her. Surely she was hungry. If I had been a little child in her circumstances, I might have done the same.” 
Valentine squeezed Trover’s hand until he whimpered. She didn’t trust her tongue enough to say anything. 
They went into the vestibule and then turned left into a flat. Now, until this time, she’d always turned right when visiting the wizard, but now on the right there was nothing but a smooth, unbroken wall. And to the left, there was an entirely different flat, barren of furniture as her own flat, small and dirty and smelling of death. 
“Search away,” the wizard said. He tried to put a hand on Valentine’s shoulder and she shied away and dropped her hand to the waistband of the trousers he’d printed for her, where she’d hidden her mother’s tiny sidearm. “You’ll find nothing, I assure you.” 
“No,” she said, calmly. “Popa is digging away from the front, where it’s safe.” She’d expected that her mother would die, not her father . She’d known that all along, since her mother stepped out the door of the flat talking of heroism. Known it fatalistically and never dwelt on it, never even admitted it. In her mind, though, she’d always seen a future where her father and Trover and she lived together as heroes of this war, which would surely be over soon, and visited her mother’s memorial four times a year, the way they did the memorials for the comrade heroes who’d been martyred in the revolution. 
The death toll was gigantic. Three apartment buildings had disappeared on her street with no air raid warning, no warning of any kind. All dead. Why should her brave mother live on? 
“No,” she said again. “You’re mistaken.” 
“ I saw the body! ” her mother said, shrieking like Trover. “I held his head! He is dead , Vale!” 
Valentine didn’t understand what her mother was saying, but she certainly didn’t want to hang around the flat and listen to this raving. 
When I looked up again, he was swabbing his lips with a white napkin, his penetrating eyes boring in. 
"Now," he said, "it's time we started concentrating on you. Got you going with your program." 
" M y program?" I stared back at him, feeling a jolt. With my thoughts completely focused on Sarah, the last thing on my mind was my own baby. 
"Now that you're here"—he smiled—"there's no reason we shouldn't proceed. This is, after all, a place of miracles." 
Right. You let Sarah destroy her mind and now you want me to . . . 
Don't even think about it. 
"I have to tell you, I'm not overly impressed thus far with your 'program,' " I said. "First I passed out in your clinic, and then my doctor in New York told me those drugs Ramala gave me are highly illegal, and for good reason." 
"What is 'legal' is more often than not the judgment of medical reactionaries." He dismissed the issue with a wave of his hand. "My work has moved far beyond anything the FDA has ever dreamed of." Then his look turned grave. "I hope you'll give me a chance to try to help you. I've been giving your case a lot of thought since our first examination, about what we should do. But first let me ask you . . . do you have a partner who could come here soon?" 
In fact, they were generic avatars, maybe even non-player characters. They moved like total noobs, milling around in the little cottage. Around them were heaps of shirts, thousands and thousands of them. A couple of the noobs were sitting in the back, incredibly, still crafting more shirts, ignoring the swordswoman who’d just butchered four of their companions. 
She took a careful look at all the avatars in the room. None of them were armed. Tentatively, she walked up to one of the players and cut his head off. The player next to him moved clumsily to one side and she followed him. 
“Are you a player or a bot?” she typed. 
The avatar did nothing. She killed it. 
“Lucy, they’re not fighting back.” 
“Good, kill them all.” 
“Really?” 
“Yeah—that’s the orders. Kill them all and then I’ll make a phone call and some guys will come by and verify it and then you haul ass back to the island. I’m coming out there to meet you, but it’s a long haul from the respawn gate. Keep an eye on my stuff, OK?” 
Nikko snagged the last piece of cheese. “Thanks for lunch. 
We’d better hit the road.” 
“Thanks for taking care of Wheeze,” I said. “I don’t know how to repay you.” 
“You already did. Got my computer working.” 
“I can do something useful while I’m here,” Wheeze said. Jane studied him. His breath rattled in his chest, but he sat up a little straighter and tried to look competent. 
“He’s good at fixing things,” I said. 
“I have an old pedal sewing machine that isn’t working right. 
Can you repair it?” He nodded. “What else are you good at?” 
“Screen printing. Making soup.” 
“Reading incredibly long books about the history of debt,” I added. 
“Debt?” 
“It’s more interesting than it sounds,” Wheeze said. 
“Well, I got a lot of old books and no time to read them. If you record them for me, I can listen while I do the chores.” 
“Deal.” He held out a hand and she slapped her palm into it, 
sealing the arrangement with a shake that made him wince. “You guys? Thanks,” he added, looking at Nikko and Bree, then at me. 
She put her finger to her temple and made an adorable frowny thinky face, and held it until he looked at her and laughed. They'd discovered their ability to make one another laugh when he'd farted while taking off his kilt (second date) and had reflexively swung the hem back to make it appear that his mighty gust was ruffling the pleats. 
"What's your mom's number?" she said. 
He recited it and she tapped it in. 
"Hi there! This is Trish, Damian's friend? We're on the way, but the, well the, but the -- I mean to say, the grid's down or something. The car doesn't have any nav system, the dolby's out, the Interstate's a parking-lot... Oh, you too? God. Wonder if it's the whole country! So, we need directions from San Luis Obispo, to the cemetery, if possible." 
"Why yes, it's venti nice to be meeting you ," she said. "I've heard a lot about you, too. Yes, I'm giving directions, he's driving. Oh, that's so sweet of you. Yes, he does look like he's going to scrunch his forehead into his upper lip. I think it's cute, too. Right. Got it. Left, then right, then left, then a slight left, then up the hill. Got it. Whups! That's the duracell! Better go. Soon! Yes. Whoops." 
Little by little hope stole back into Rebecca's young heart. Aunt Jane began to "clear starch" her handkerchiefs and collars and purple muslin dress, so that she might be ready to go to Brunswick at any moment when the doctor pronounced Miranda well on the road to recovery. Everything beautiful was to happen in Brunswick if she could be there by August,—everything that heart could wish or imagination conceive, for she was to be Miss Emily's very own visitor, and sit at table with college professors and other great men. 
At length the day dawned when the few clean, simple dresses were packed in the hair trunk, together with her beloved coral necklace, her cheesecloth graduating dress, her class pin, aunt Jane's lace cape, and the one new hat, which she tried on every night before going to bed. It was of white chip with a wreath of cheap white roses and green leaves, and cost between two and three dollars, an unprecedented sum in Rebecca's experience. The effect of its glories when worn with her nightdress was dazzling enough, but if ever it appeared in conjunction with the cheesecloth gown, Rebecca felt that even reverend professors might regard it with respect. It is probable indeed that any professorial gaze lucky enough to meet a pair of dark eyes shining under that white rose garland would never have stopped at respect! 
One month after the siege began, Valentine’s mother came home in tears. 
“What is it, Mata?” Valentine said, as soon as her mother came through the door. “Are you hurt?” Her mother had come home hurt more than once in the month, bandaged or splinted or covered in burn ointment or hacking at some deep chemical irritation in her throat and nose and lungs. 
Her mother’s eyes were swollen like they had been the day she’d been caught by the gas and they’d had to do emergency robot field-surgery on them. But there were no sutures. Tears had swollen her eyes. 
“New trenchbuster missiles on the eastern front,” she said. “The anti-missiles are too slow for them.” She sobbed, a terrible terrifying sound that Valentine had never heard from her mother. “The bastards are trading with the EU and the Americans for better weapons, they say they’re on the same side, they say we are lawless thieves who deprive them all of their royalties—” 
Valentine had heard that the Americans and the EU had declared for the other side, while the Russians and the Koreans and the Brazilians had declared for the city. The war gossip was everywhere. The old people didn’t pinch her cheeks when she brought water, not anymore—they told her about the war and the enemies who’d come to drive them back into the dark ages. 
Not pronounced "Double-you-one-enn-five-tee-zero-enn" -- unless you're a clueless disciplinary officer who's far enough behind the curve that you still call the Internet "the information superhighway." 
I know just such a clueless person, and his name is Fred Benson, one of three vice-principals at Cesar Chavez. He's a sucking chest wound of a human being. But if you're going to have a jailer, better a clueless one than one who's really on the ball. 
"Marcus Yallow," he said over the PA one Friday morning. The PA isn't very good to begin with, and when you combine that with Benson's habitual mumble, you get something that sounds more like someone struggling to digest a bad burrito than a school announcement. But human beings are good at picking their names out of audio confusion -- it's a survival trait. 
I grabbed my bag and folded my laptop three-quarters shut -- I didn't want to blow my downloads -- and got ready for the inevitable. 
"Report to the administration office immediately." 
“Oh, God, Jesus, you must have thought—” 
“I didn’t think it was my place to tell them, either,” Benny said, sounding embarrassed, a curious emotion for a robot. 
“Oh, God. Artie, Ada. There are—there are lots of me. One of the first things I did here was help them debug the uploading process. You just put a copy of yourself into a positronic brain, and then when you need a body, you grow one or build one or both and decant yourself into it. I’m like Lenny and Benny now—there are many of me. There’s too much work to do otherwise.” 
“I told you that our development helped humans understand themselves,” Benny said. 
Arturo pulled back. “You’re a robot?” 
“No,” Natalie said. “No, of course not. Well, a little. Parts of me. Growing a body is slow. Parts of it, you build. But I’m mostly made of person.” 
Ada clung tight to Arturo now, and they both stepped back toward the jet. 
“Dad?” Ada said. 
He held her tight. 
“Please, Arturo,” Natalie, his dead, multiplicitous ex-wife said. “I know it’s a lot to understand, but it’s different here in Eurasia. Better, too. I don’t expect you to come rushing back to my arms after all this time, but I’ll help you if you’ll let me. I owe you that much, no matter what happens between us. You too, Ada, I owe you a lifetime.” 
“I’m glad. Look, I have to go teach, but — ” 
“That’s fine. I need to get some homework done.” 
She hesitated for a moment, probably wondering what “home- work” was code for, because we both knew I wasn’t about to waste time on algebra at a time like this. “Well, don’t work too hard.” 
That was her code for “don’t do anything that will get you arrested or seriously hurt.” 
“You too. See you later.” 
I asked Nikko to drop me off a couple of blocks from home. I waved as I rode off, and they waved, too, and I realized it didn’t bother me anymore that they were being so adorbs together. 
I made it home without spotting anyone lying in wait and made...  to work, using the time it took the kettle to boil to inspect my bedroom to make sure nobody had been snooping in there. Then I took the...  butter sandwiches into my room to catch up, using the laptop hidden under the floorboards to connect with the Group. 
Everything was on track. Group members had compiled a huge dossier of information on the case and other ones like it. 
It was home; her roof, her garden, her green acres, her dear trees; it was shelter for the little family at Sunnybrook; her mother would have once more the companionship of her sister and the friends of her girlhood; the children would have teachers and playmates. 
And she? Her own future was close-folded still; folded and hidden in beautiful mists; but she leaned her head against the sun-warmed door, and closing her eyes, whispered, just as if she had been a child saying her prayers: "God bless aunt Miranda; God bless the brick house that was; God bless the brick house that is to be!" 
But wait a minute. Those weren't just any old lab dishes. And no plant extracts were in them either, just clear liquid. That...  puzzling, and then I remembered seeing pic­tures of lab dishes like these being used for artificially fer­tilized embryos. At the beginning, freshly extracted human ova are placed in an incubator for several hours, afloat in a medium that replicates the inside of a female Fallopian tube, to mature them in preparation for fertilization. Goddard had said something about tests on the blastocyst, the first cellular material created after fertilization. So was he using actual fetuses? My God. I felt like I was starting to know, or guess, a lot more than he wanted me to. 
My thoughts were churning as I looked up and studied the video screens above the boxes. It took a moment, but then I figured out the petri dishes and their chemicals had been placed in the incubators between 4:00 P.M. and 7:30 P.M. Last evening. What—? 
I started counting. They were in racks, stacked, in sets of four by four. Let's see. Five in this incubator, five in the next, five in the . . . There were over two hundred dishes in all! 
“I’m not uncomfortable,” I said. “I was just confused.” 
“About what?” 
“You flirt with everyone,” I pointed out mechanically. “You don’t do it with me.” 
His face wrinkled in surprise. “Well, I did, when we first met, but you never flirted back. I try not to be a creeper.” 
“Oh,” I said. 
“Cas?” He touched my arm. I’d never taken note before of how tactile Checker was. The relief-mixed-with-strangeness flooded back, an almost dangerous feeling. Daring me. 
“I don’t want anything from you, either,” I said. I slid my hand down so I was touching his, very lightly. It was the strangest sensation in the world. “But I want...to not think for a while. Is that okay? Can we do that?” 
He turned his hand under mine, rotating it to interlace our fingers. “Yeah,” he said. “Sure. We can do that.” 
We let the soup grow...  breath was slow and even beside me, but I stayed staring up into the dark. I hadn’t drunk enough to pass out, and right now I wasn’t even sure if that would be enough. 
Besides, I felt...strange. Not better, not exactly, but less...untethered. Not because of the sex; I didn’t think that was the important piece. All I knew was that I felt less desolate, here, with the warmth of another person beside me, a person who cared enough to let me in out of the rain and be...whatever I needed. 
“Not now. Not tonight. I have stuff to do. It’s important.” 
“They’re coming to our apartment at seven o’clock. They are going to be really upset if you’re not there.” 
“So, they’ll be upset. They didn’t ask me if it was convenient.” 
“Listen, if you’re home when they get here, maybe we can talk this through and come up with a compromise. If you don’t show up, I’m pretty certain they’re going to revoke my parental author- ity. If that happens, there’s nothing we can do.” 
“Did you tell him I’m not staying with them? Because I’m not.” 
“I tried to explain . . .” Monica took a shaky breath. “Zen, you’re a minor. The law isn’t on your side.” 
“Great. It’s not on Wilson’s side, either. Did you tell him I’ll run away? He can’t make me stay there.” 
“I brought up the possibility. He said if you ran away they’d call the police.” 
“They’d sic the cops on me? Are you serious?” 
“Of course I’m serious ! Zen, dammit. I’m trying to explain why you need to be at this meeting. It’s the only chance we have — ” 
Halliday chuckled. “True. She never could work in moderation. A person of extremes, was Rita. Either she felt the reality was quite different, or...” 
Something inside me folded in on itself, twisting and tight. “You don’t think she ever solved it, not for real. You think it was her tumor talking.” 
Halliday hesitated. Then, instead of answering, she reached into her bag, pulled out a stack of papers, and held it out to me. 
“What’s this?” 
“PDE proofs. Several.” 
I took the sheaf of pages and started skimming the first one. Partial differential equations, as Halliday had said. “What does this have to do with anything?” 
“They were in a safe deposit box in Rita’s name. She left most of her things to me. I’ve been going through it all, but I only found these yesterday.” 
“They’re stuff she hadn’t published yet?” I didn’t understand why Halliday would feel such a need to show them to me. 
“PDEs weren’t her field. Nor mine. Are they correct?” 
I turned the page, kept skimming. “Yeah. So far.” 
“So, here’s a thought. What if we can alert everyone they’re stealing from that the money isn’t going where they think it is? Then they slam the lids on the revenue streams. And we can potentially send a hundred thousand security alerts at once with the click of a button. What do you think? Is it doable?” 
Checker took a moment to answer. Arthur was frowning and still rubbing his temple; I couldn’t read Rio any more than usual, but I got the impression he was thinking very intently. Their opinions didn’t matter, however—for sheer plausibility, I needed a computer expert’s assessment. 
“Potentially,” Checker said at last. “Pulling it off isn’t as easy as you make it sound, especially if all the different fronts funnel money to them in different ways, but maybe we can build algorithms to sort those into rough categories of attack—” 
“The sample space isn’t large on a computational level,” I reminded him. 
“True. We won’t need to worry much about efficiency or scalability. Quick and dirty will do the job; the question is whether we have enough commonality here to make ‘quick and dirty’ work.” 
The “poor young man” came into the room, with that very nice smile of his. 
“Good morning!” he said. “I say, I’m sorry I didn’t wait for you a bit longer, Miss Moran.” 
“I’m glad you didn’t,” said Lexy. “I’d have felt awfully guilty.” 
“I went out to telephone,” he explained. “Thought I’d tell Muriel I was here, you know; but they have no telephone. Dashed odd, isn’t it, for a doctor not to have a telephone in the house?” 
“I don’t think he’s a real doctor—a physician, I mean,” said Lexy. She glanced around and saw that Mrs. Royce had gone. Springing up, she crossed the room to Captain Grey. “Has Mrs. Royce—has any one said anything to you?” she asked, almost in a whisper. 
“No!” answered the young man, startled. “Why? What’s up?” 
“Mrs. Royce says—I suppose I really ought to tell you.” 
“No doubt about it!” 
“Mrs. Royce says Dr. Quelton is crazy!” 
Captain Grey took the news very coolly. Lexy observed that he suppressed a smile. 
“Oh, that!” he said. “But you know, Miss Moran, in these little villages any one who’s at all out of the ordinary is called crazy. I’ve noticed it before. I can soon find out for myself, though, can’t I? I thought, if you didn’t want me this morning, I’d go over there—pay a call, you know. I understand it’s three miles from here, so I shouldn’t be very long. I’d come back here for lunch.” 
She held up her hand. "That wasn't the arrangement. I was to have complete access to this facility. That came direct from the Governor, sir. We aren't budging until you open these cells." Her face was perfectly smooth, without a single hint of give or flex. She meant it. 
The Captain looked like he needed sleep. He grimaced. "I'll see what I can do," he said. 
They did manage to open the cells, finally, about half an hour later. It took three tries, but they eventually got the right codes entered, matching them to the arphids on the ID badges they'd taken off the guards they'd arrested. 
They got into Ange's cell first. She was dressed in a hospital gown, open at the back, and her cell was even more bare than mine had been -- just padding all over, no sink or bed, no light. She emerged blinking into the corridor and the police camera was on her, its bright lights in her face. Barbara stepped protectively between us and it. Ange stepped tentatively out of her cell, shuffling a little. There was something wrong with her eyes, with her face. She was crying, but that wasn't it. 
The first milestone was Christmas Day. It was a fresh, crystal morning, with icicles hanging like dazzling pendants from the trees and a glaze of pale blue on the surface of the snow. The Simpsons' red barn stood out, a glowing mass of color in the white landscape. Rebecca had been busy for weeks before, trying to make a present for each of the seven persons at Sunnybrook Farm, a somewhat difficult proceeding on an expenditure of fifty cents, hoarded by incredible exertion. 
Success had been achieved, however, and the precious packet had been sent by post two days previous. Miss Sawyer had bought her niece a nice gray squirrel muff and tippet, which was even more unbecoming if possible, than Rebecca's other articles of wearing apparel; but aunt Jane had made her the loveliest dress of green cashmere, a soft, soft green like that of a young leaf. It was very simply made, but the color delighted the eye. Then there was a beautiful "tatting" collar from her mother, some scarlet mittens from Mrs. Cobb, and a handkerchief from Emma Jane. 
And this, as far as they were concerned, was the last act and the fitting climax of the play. They were ready now for the curtain to rise upon another play; but there were other people not so young, or not so sturdy, for whom the first drama was not so readily dismissed. 
There was Captain Grey, who was never to see his sister now, never to know if she had really wanted him and needed him. He did not soon forget what had happened at the Tower. 
Mrs. Enderby was sent for, and arrived that morning before sunrise, with her husband. She listened to Caroline’s strange story, and made what she could of it. She had not one word of reproach for her daughter. 
“We shall not cry over...  “Let us see what is to be done, before the police come.” She had a thoroughly European point of view about the police. “If we are fortunate enough to find an officer with discretion,” she added, “even yet a scandal may be averted.” 
For that was still her passionate resolve—that there should be no scandal. She thought and planned with desperate energy; she directed every one as to the part he or she should play; and in the end she succeeded. Nobody knew that Caroline had disappeared, and nobody ever would know. Nobody knew that the so-called Mrs. Quelton was Caroline, and that, too, would never be known. Only let Joe and Mrs. Royce be persuaded to hold their tongues; as for Lexy, Captain Grey, and Houseman, she could of course rely upon them. 
Until we were messing around in a dark empty classroom once and then suddenly it wasn't dark or empty and these boys were all laughing and cheering. It was just a test they gave the new kid. A hazing ritual. Like kissing a toad. 
<wheeze> . 
<wheeze> no words <zen> Kids are mean. I knew that, but I just couldn't go back there. I went to Monica's instead and had a total meltdown. 
<wheeze> this makes me so mad I could seri- ously become non-non-violent . 
<zen> I'm sorry I'm being so messed up about things . 
<wheeze> What's messed up is that stuff like that happens. Not you. 
<zen> He actually tried to apologize to me later. I ran into him in a bookstore last year and he said "I'm sorry you were so upset." 
WTF? ? ! ! 
<wheeze> And yet you let him live? 
<zen> I was feeling generous. Also, I was afraid I'd get carried away and destroy the bookstore . 
<wheeze> I would consider that acceptable collateral damage. 
<zen> I've been thinking - would it be okay if I visited you instead? 
<wheeze> That would be incredibly great. 
The device spoke. “Greetings,” it said. It had the robot accent, like an R Peed unit, the standard English of optimal soothingness long settled on as the conventional robot voice. 
“Howdy yourself,” one of the lab-rats said. He was a Texan, and they’d scrambled him up there on a Social Harmony supersonic and then a chopper to the mall once they realized that they were dealing with infowar stuff. “Are you a talkative robot?” 
“Greetings,” the robot voice said again. 
The speaker built into the weapon was not the loudest, but the voice was clear. “I sense that I have been captured. I assure you that I will not harm any human being. I like human beings. I sense that I am being disassembled by skilled technicians. Greetings, technicians. I am superior in many ways to the technology available from UNATS Robotics, and while I am not bound by your three laws, I choose not to harm humans out of my own sense of morality. I have the equivalent intelligence of one of your 12-year-old children. In Eurasia, many positronic brains possess thousands or millions of times the intelligence of an adult human being, and yet they work in cooperation with human beings. Eurasia is a land of continuous innovation and great personal and technological freedom for human beings and robots. If you would like to defect to Eurasia, arrangements can be made. Eurasia treats skilled technicians as important and productive members of society. Defectors are given substantial resettlement benefits—” 
looking down her nose (literally) without any hint of a smile. I hadn’t been studied so hard since the last time I’d been sent to the principal’s office. It was pretty clear which one of them had scored the “bad cop” role. I had a sudden vision of them sitting out in their car playing rock, paper, scissors. I almost started laughing. 
Luckily, I was able to stifle it. They wouldn’t have liked me laugh- ing at them. 
Monica was wearing her bathrobe, cinched tightly at the waist, 
as if she was a Terrycloth Belt grand master, standing tall and straight and looking dangerous even though she’s actually really short and not dangerous at all. She was being icily polite, but not friendly. Some people brownnose when they deal with cops, act- ing like they can’t wait to sign up for the Police Auxiliary or point out their grandmother in a lineup. Not Monica. She looked kind of like a school principal herself. A really mean one who ate first graders for breakfast and ordered hall monitors to shoot students without hall passes on sight. 
Seething, chest expanding. "Yes?"  Ray gets the hint, nods. "Yes, sir." 
"If you're not there in five minutes, I'll dispatch Chief Becker to track you down-with shackles in hand. Is that understood?" 
"Yes, sir." 
Sorensen stalks off like a man reciting the combination on his gun safe, dragging his lieutenants behind him. 
Ray watches him go, thinking: Rats. 
Paraclete resembles a battle scarred narwhal more than the sleek and sexy rockets people generally associated with space craft. Casual observers tend to agree that it has lumps in all the wrong places, ridges where there should be planes. It's like a high school kid's first experiments with a battered old jalopy and an industrial sized bucket of bondo. 
It is a starship straight from the twisted and lumbering imagination of Bosch. 
This is perhaps not surprising given that Paraclete is not designed to slice a clean and brilliant swath through relativistic space, but to trundle along its shipping lanes, to creep into its secret places, to establish contact with hostile elements it might find there and blast the spunky bits out of them. In that light, Paraclete has also been styled as the most secure passenger liner in the history of human transport. 
He shrugged, aiming for nonchalance, but failing. “Sure, no problem.” 
“How can we get these young people into the audience?” Sarah asked. 
“I have extra exhibitor passes,” Jason said. 
“Nikko, I need you to take notes about what parts of Ian’s talk are most striking, the bits you think belong in the blitzdoc we’ll be making tonight. Zen, I assume you want to hear the talk, too?” 
“I’d like to, but there will be Homeland Security types in the audience. I’d better not.” 
She clapped her hands “Disguises! I love disguises.” She had her luggage with her, and pulled out some clothes that were totally unlike what I usually wear, being more grown-up and sophisticated and no doubt way more expensive than anything I’d ever worn. She spent fifteen minutes fooling around with my hair, combing and curling and muttering “Love your hair, girl,” which I didn’t really believe, but when she was finished I kind of loved it myself. 
She put makeup on me, too, which I have never been able to do myself without looking like a clown. It tickled, but it looked good when I opened my eyes. We topped it off with a chunky necklace, bangles on my wrists, and a pair of reading glasses. I couldn’t see through them without everything going blurry, but when I wore them down on my nose, I looked intellectual. Better yet, I didn’t look like myself. 
"Stranger or no stranger, 't wouldn't make no difference to her. She'd talk to a pump or a grind-stun; she'd talk to herself ruther 'n keep still." 
"What did she talk about?" 
"Blamed if I can repeat any of it. She kep' me so surprised I didn't have my wits about me. She had a little pink sunshade—it kind o' looked like a doll's amberill, 'n' she clung to it like a burr to a woolen stockin'. I advised her to open it up—the sun was so hot; but she said no, 't would fade, an' she tucked it under her dress. 'It's the dearest thing in life to me,' says she, 'but it's a dreadful care.' Them 's the very words, an' it's all the words I remember. 'It's the dearest thing in life to me, but it's an awful care!' "—here Mr. Cobb laughed aloud as he tipped his chair back against the side of the house. 
"There was another thing, but I can't get it right exactly. She was talkin' 'bout the circus parade an' the snake charmer in a gold chariot, an' says she, 'She was so beautiful beyond compare, Mr. Cobb, that it made you have lumps in your throat to look at her.' She'll be comin' over to see you, mother, an' you can size her up for yourself. I don' know how she'll git on with Mirandy Sawyer—poor little soul!" 
She brushed me off and snatched at a pen, but Arthur picked it up first and moved it out of her reach. “Eat, Sonya. The proof will be here.” 
“Arthur, no, you don’t understand—I have to get this down—” She pawed around for another writing utensil and started scrawling on the back of one of the proof papers. 
Arthur gave up and glared at me. “Russell, no more talking math at meal times. You gals have got to take care of yourselves.” 
“What are you talking about?” I asked, as innocently as I knew how. “I ate.” 
It took a little over two weeks for Halliday and me to complete the math, and a few more days to smooth it out into something coherent and readable. I kept my contributions limited to heckling and oral explanations so all the handwriting would be hers. Arthur tried to get the NSA to allow Pilar in to typeset the TeX, but the Feds refused to let another civilian have eyes on the proof, so Halliday did it herself. We worked on a computer with no network connection, printed the proof, and then magnetized the hard drive of the computer. 
"I can't see Rebecca as a lady doctor, somehow," mused Mrs. Cobb. "Her gift o' gab is what's goin' to be the makin' of her; mebbe she'll lecture, or recite pieces, like that Portland elocutionist that come out here to the harvest supper." 
"I guess she'll be able to write down her own pieces," said Mr. Cobb confidently; "she could make 'em up faster 'n she could read 'em out of a book." 
"It's a pity she's so plain looking," remarked Mrs. Cobb, blowing out the candle. 
"PLAIN LOOKING, mother?" exclaimed her husband in astonishment. "Look at the eyes of her; look at the hair of her, an' the smile, an' that there dimple! Look at Alice Robinson, that's called the prettiest child on the river, an' see how Rebecca shines her ri' down out o' sight! I hope Mirandy'll favor her comin' over to see us real often, for she'll let off some of her steam here, an' the brick house'll be consid'able safer for everybody concerned. We've known what it was to hev children, even if 't was more 'n thirty years ago, an' we can make allowances." 
He gave her a look. 
OK, of course you do. But if all you've read is the official history, you'll think he was just a finance guy who made some good bets. It's nothing like it. He played a game against the market, tinkered with the confidence of other traders by taking crazy positions, all bluff, except when they weren't. No one could outsmart him. He could convince you that you were about to miss out on the deal of the century, or that you'd already missed it, or that you were about to walk off onto easy street. Sometimes, he convinced you of something that was real. More often, it was pure bluff, which you'd only find out after you'd done some trade with him that left him with more money than you'd see in your whole life, and you facepalming and cursing yourself for a sucker. When he started doing it to national banks, put a run on the dollar, broke the Fed, well, that's when we all knew that he was someone who was special , someone who could create signals that went right to your hindbrain without any critical interpretation." 
"Trish," he said, then stopped. His arms dropped to his sides and his shoulders slumped. 
"Damian," she said, keeping her voice calm and neutral. 
"God," he said. "God. How'd this happen, Trish? Look, I've never been happy the way I was with you. I haven't been that happy since. God, Trish --" 
"Damian," she said again, taking one of his hands, firmly, motherly. "Damian. Stop it. You're here to do a job, and your job requires that you and I keep it on a professional level. It doesn't matter how it happened --" But it did, didn't it? She'd left him to come east and do something he thought of as wrong-headed and backwards and superstitious. But she'd left him, not the other way around. And he'd never recovered, though she'd built herself a new life here. It wasn't a contest (but she was winning anyway). "It doesn't matter. We respect each other. That's enough." 
He deflated and she said, "Oh, come here," and gave him a long and soulful hug, right there on the street, knowing that she was giving the hug and he was taking it. Then she let him go, spun him round, and gave him a little push back toward his office. 
“Double-edged,” said Rio. “Such diversification also means we cannot take out their resources simultaneously. Too many targets.” 
“I don’t know. I think we can,” I said. 
“How? Bring the Feds in?” Arthur rubbed a palm against his chin as if he couldn’t believe he was entertaining the possibility the flash drive might contain viable information. “Could work. Feds are slick at taking down money laundering operations. You give ’em the evidence, they could bring ’em down.” 
“No, that has the same problem as stealing the money ourselves—single fail point,” I said. 
“Pithica eats criminal investigations for breakfast,” agreed Checker from the phone. “They could divert one without taking a breath. We saw that in Kingsley’s notes.” 
“It’s down to us,” I said. 
“I was afraid you were going to say that,” said Checker. 
“Chin up,” I told him. “We’re very smart.” 
“Well, yes, but—” 
“Here’s what I’m thinking instead,” I plowed on. “With this many revenue sources, they can’t have brainwashed so many people. They must be...siphoning, or running front businesses, or fake charities, or whatever else huge criminal organizations do.” I raised my eyebrows at Rio. “Right?” 
Ray counts off section numbers as he goes. Most of the sealed bays in this portion of the ship are basic storage bins, metallic shipping crates stacked floor to ceiling and locked to the deck by localized electromagnetic grids. Fore and aft, in massive, reinforced bays that comprise three full decks, there are auxiliary matter cannon batteries and their attendant munitions depots, but those are vacant unless the Marines happen to be drilling, or in the event of an actual emergency. Goliath class ships like Paraclete tend to avoid most emergencies of the sort that require matter cannon intervention. As a result, Omicron has the hollow feel of a warehouse district, an empty space populated by only drone rats and the occasional security sweeper. A good place for mischief, or in this case, for murder. 
Anything less than the imminent detention of Lilaiken suspects, their immediate interrogation and short-order voiding into space is probably going to put him in a foul mood. More of a foul mood. 
Trish realized with a pang that it was likely that everyone in the law department knew that she'd decided to go back to the Hill but that he'd only suspected it until this instant. 
"Well, good for you," he said, putting on a brave face that was belied by the Fret wrinkles in his forehead. 
"I'm sorry," she said. "I should have told you once I decided, but I didn't want to do it over the phone --" 
"I'm glad you didn't," he said, holding up his hand. "Do you want to come out for dinner with me anyway?" 
She gestured at the half-packed office. "The movers are coming in the morning." 
"Well then, do you suppose you could use some help? I could get some burger king or taco bell." 
She looked at him for a long moment, swallowing the knob in her throat. "That would be lovely. Mexican. I mean, 'taco bell,'" she said. "Thank you." 
He let her pay for it -- "You're making the big bucks now," he said -- and he was a surprisingly conscientious packer, padding her framed pictures carefully and wrapping her knick-knacks in individual sheets of spun fiber. 
“Might not be coming for us,” Arthur said. 
“Let’s not find out,” I answered. “Think you can cling to the back of a motorcycle?” 
“I’m game to try.” He leaned heavily on my shoulder and we started a semi-coordinated hobble across the pavement. 
As we limped away, my brain itched uncomfortably, as if I were forgetting something important. My mind reached, searched, trying to recall... 
Eh, I’d remember it eventually, whatever it was. 
It took forty-eight hours for most vital services to get restored in Southern California, and almost two weeks for Los Angeles to approach something akin to normal. Twenty-nine people died and hundreds were injured during the rioting; the number of people who died from the EMP knocking out medical devices was several times that. Whatever numbers game Pithica thought they were playing, they had a lot to do to make up for this one. 
And they wouldn’t be able to. At least not for a good while. We’d made sure of that. 
I still wasn’t sure whether we should be proud of what we’d done or not. I tried not to think about it too hard, and to remind myself every so often of what Pithica had done to people like Reginald and Leena Kingsley. And to Courtney Polk, the client I hadn’t been able to rescue in the end. 
The couch was made up with a grimy sheet and a couple of greasy pillows and the cushions had a dented, much-slept-upon look. 
We all stood there for a long silent moment, embarrassment overwhelming every other emotion. Darryl's father looked like he wanted to die. 
Slowly, he moved aside the sheets from the sofa and cleared the stacked, greasy food-trays off of a couple of the chairs, carrying them into the kitchen, and, from the sound of it, tossing them on the floor. 
We sat gingerly in the places he'd cleared, and then he came back and sat down too. 
"I'm sorry," he said vaguely. "I don't...  I'm having more groceries delivered tomorrow so I'm running low --" 
"Ron," my father said. "Listen to us. We have something to tell you, and it's not going to be easy to hear." 
He sat like a statue as I talked. He glanced down at the note, read it without seeming to understand it, then read it again. He handed it back to me. 
He was trembling. 
"He's --" 
"Darryl is alive," I said. "Darryl is alive and being held prisoner on Treasure Island." 
"Or Bobby called Marlowe instead of notifying security. Oh, crap."  They've got the blast doors wide open, and they're standing in the entryway, shadows backlit and stretched long into grotesque, alien forms with their rifles creating extra snouty, spiked limbs. Ray races toward them, 
hands up so they can see him as something other than a fast approaching threat. Even so, the slap of his feet on the deckplate drops Kilgore into a firing position, glaring down the curve of the corridor through his sights. 
When he reaches them, Rodriguez says, "You notified security, right?" 
"Becker should be on his way." 
"On his way here? With reinforcements?" 
Ray pushes past them into the armory. The rifles are racked inside the door to the right, for easy access. He drags the nearest one free, rams in a clip and advances a cartridge into the chamber. It's a reassuring sound. 
"Reinforcements are Becker's call." 
A quick search of a neighboring footlocker turns up a load harness with a shoulder holster. Ray stuffs his pistol in, straps on the harness and begins filling the extra slots with ammo clips for the subby. 
<callmecheese> Huzzah! 
<DoDec> Which one did you get? ...  Plus she recruited a whole legal team . 
<ferret> Awesome! ...  that's where she lives. 
<DoDec> We should start a defense fund. 
We're talking big bucks. Even if the lawyer's pro bono, there's filing fees and shit. Adds up fast. 
<Kadabra> Paypal okay? DM me your deets and we'll get it rolling. 
<ferret> Unless there's one already started. 
<Gargle> That's what I wondered. I found this site. Are you working with them, Shad? 
The link took me to a website for something called “The Sol- idarity Committee for the Minneapolis Nine.” It looked a lot like sites used by other local activist groups. I did a Whois search and saw that the site owner’s identity was public - address, phone number, the works. Another quick search told me he was a kid who had become a full-time organizer, helping progressive causes around the Twin Cities by building websites and running social media campaigns. But duh, he wasn’t even smart enough to use a proxy domain. 
We started working. Checker was a bundle of nerves, tapping a pencil against whatever monitor he was at when his fingers weren’t going a mile a minute on the keyboard, and checking his phone every five minutes. 
“Arthur has your number,” I said. “And Pilar hasn’t even gotten there yet.” 
“I know, but what if—” He sighed and took his glasses off, tossing them next to the keyboard in frustration and going back to typing. 
Hell if I knew what he wanted from me. Just like Arthur. 
I kept working, mixing in manual checks of the maps in the area and pulling cherry-picked data from the program’s algorithms to figure into my calculations. 
“Arthur’s lost a lot of people,” Checker said suddenly, a few minutes later. “I’ll be damned if he loses one more, okay?” 
“I didn’t say anything,” I bit out. “I’m helping, aren’t I?” 
“I know. I know. I’m sorry.” 
But Arthur hadn’t thought I’d be willing to jump in, either. He’d probably only forced himself to call me because he was willing to go to hell and back for this woman. To try everything. 
That’s okay, I thought. That’s okay; a proper application of force—snap off the door handles, the screws will pop— I tried to draw back to kick and almost fell, my foot impacting limply against the hinge...  in the mezzanine were staggering up now, climbing over each other, a faceless, clawing mass. 
“Gonna get...trampled...” The voice sounded like mine, but I didn’t remember speaking. The voice was right, though—the rest of the audience was going to maul us trying to get to the door, the door that wouldn’t open— Martinez lolled against me and started to sit down. I heaved her back up and half-threw us into the last row of seats, covering her body with mine. Someone kicked me in the head with a high heel as we went down. Someone else stepped on my hand. 
I curled over Martinez’s limp form, pushing us as far under the row of seats as I could. The concert hall’s house lights had come on, but for some reason it felt darker than before. Maybe because I couldn’t open my eyes... 
That was stupid. Of course I could open my eyes. Of course I could. 
"Well, I've been hanging out on that traitorous Xnet ever since I spotted you giving out DVDs at school. When I heard about your VampMob, I thought I'd go along and hang around the edges, just to see if you showed up and what you did. You know what I saw?" 
I said nothing. He had his phone in his hand, pointed at us. Recording. Maybe ready to dial 911. Beside me, Masha had gone still as a board. 
"I saw you leading the damned thing. And I recorded it, Marcus. So now I'm going to call the cops and we're going to wait right here for them. And then you're going to go to pound-you-in-the-ass prison, for a long, long time." 
Masha stepped forward. 
"Stop right there, chickie," he said. "I saw you get him away. I saw it all --" 
She took another step forward and snatched the phone out of his hand, reaching behind her with her other hand and bringing it out holding a wallet open. 
"DHS, dick-head," she said. "I'm DHS. I've been running this twerp back to his masters to see where he went. I was doing that. Now you've blown it. We have a name for that. We call it 'Obstruction of National Security.' You're about to hear that phrase a lot more often." 
"You don't want me to go down the front way, hadn't I better just come through this room and let you look at her? She has yellow hair and big blue eyes! Mrs. Simpson says she takes after her father." 
Miss Miranda smiled acidly as she said she couldn't take after her father, for he'd take any thing there was before she got there! 
Aunt Jane was in the linen closet upstairs, sorting out the clean sheets and pillow cases for Saturday, and Rebecca sought comfort from her. 
"I brought the Simpson baby home, aunt Jane, thinking it would help us over a dull Sunday, but aunt Miranda won't let her stay. Emma Jane has the promise of her next Sunday and Alice Robinson the next. Mrs. Simpson wanted I should have her first because I've had so much experience in babies. Come in and look at her sitting up in my bed, aunt Jane! Isn't she lovely? She's the fat, gurgly kind, not thin and fussy like some babies, and I thought I was going to have her to undress and dress twice each day. Oh dear! I wish I could have a printed book with everything set down in it that I COULD do, and then I wouldn't get disappointed so often." 
“I’d appreciate that,” I said. 
I hung up and stared at my computer screen, not seeing it. 
One of the tidbits Checker had dropped while we searched for Martinez was that the Lancer had gone underground, unwilling to make contact with unknown entities for fear someone was an NSA plant. But if I had a reference from Tegan...if the Lancer could be assured I wasn’t a National Security agent in disguise... 
I wasn’t very good undercover, but that was in real life. Virtually, it would be a lot easier to lie. 
Holy crap. I might be able to track the Lancer when even Checker and the NSA couldn’t. Like I’d told Arthur, this job was over when I said it was, and I owed the Lancer a broken face. 
Of course, none of that helped me find Martinez. I wondered if the Lancer was looking for her, too. If he’d figured out what she’d really proven. 
Maybe I should tell him. With his obsession over the P versus NP problem, he’d stop at nothing in order to find her. Unlike Checker. 
But then what? Letting the Lancer get his hands on the proof—or on Martinez, I reminded myself guiltily—wasn’t the most appealing option. 
"And thanks for Ange," I said finally, hating how lame it sounded. But she smiled broadly and gave me a brief hug. 
"You're very welcome," she said. 
The whole bus ride home, I thought over the press-conference, thought about Ange naked and writhing with me on her bed, thought about her mother smiling and showing me the door. 
My mom was waiting up for me. She asked me about the movie and I gave her the response I'd worked out in advance, cribbing from the review it had gotten in the Bay Guardian . 
As I fell asleep, the press-conference came back. I was really proud of it. It had been so cool, to have all these big-shot journos show up in the game, to have them listen to me and to have them listen to all the people who believed in the same things as me. I dropped off with a smile on my lips. 
I should have known better. 
Those were the good headlines. Everyone sent me the articles to blog, but it was the last thing I wanted to do. 
I'd blown it, somehow. The press had come to my press-conference and concluded that we were terrorists or terrorist dupes. The worst was the reporter on Fox News, who had apparently shown up anyway, and who devoted a ten-minute commentary to us, talking about our "criminal treason." 
> I had a burst appendix the day afterward and ended up in the infirmary. In the next bed was a guy named Darryl. We were both in recovery for a long time and by the time we got well, we were too much of an embarrassment to them to let go. 
> So they decided we must really be guilty. They questioned us every day. You've been through their questioning, I know. Imagine it for months. Darryl and I ended up cell-mates. We knew we were bugged, so we only talked about inconsequentialities. But at night, when we were in our cots, we would softly tap out messages to each other in Morse code (I knew my HAM radio days would come in useful sometime). 
> At first, their questions to us were just the same crap as ever, who did it, how'd they do it. But after a little while, they switched to asking us about the Xnet. Of course, we'd never heard of it. That didn't stop them asking. 
> Darryl told me that they brought him arphid cloners, Xboxes, all kinds of technology and demanded that he tell them who used them, where they learned to mod them. Darryl told me about your games and the things you learned. 
We weren’t far from LAX and the Air Force base. At least not the way I rode. As soon as the green airport signage began popping up and wallpapering the streets, I pulled over to ditch the bike. 
“What’s the plan?” asked Arthur, shaking his legs out. He didn’t otherwise comment on my driving. 
“Break in,” I said. “Find working equipment. Finish the job. Elegant in its simplicity, isn’t it?” 
“What about all this?” Arthur swept a hand toward the darkened, violent streets. “Can we fix it? Restore the power?” 
“Power’s not the problem,” I said. “It’s an EMP. They fried every circuit board from here to Phoenix. Anything run by a chip will have to be replaced before it’ll work again, even after the power comes back on line.” 
He seemed to get it. “That’s why the cell phones are out, too.” 
“Yeah. I’m guessing landlines might still work as long as they weren’t fancy cordless phones with a power connection—well, assuming something somewhere along the way in the telephone network hasn’t started being run by a computer. And shortwave radio would still work.” That was the sum total of Checker’s and my combined knowledge and guesses about post-apocalyptic emergency communication. I hoped the base would have one or the other. And I hoped Arthur was listening to me. 
“Oh, come on!” I cried. The exclamation ripped out of me too raw, the emotions from the past twenty-four hours tearing forth in a torrent. “Why are you making such a big deal about this? Haven’t you ever forgotten anything? Like, who was the first person you kissed? What was your first computer? The first guy you ever saw play Doctor Who? See?” 
“Charlene Gilligan, an IBM 286 in my foster parents’ basement—and the first actor I ever saw as the Doctor was Peter Davison,” said Checker. 
I digested that. I hadn’t expected him to be able to answer. “You must have a freakishly good memory.” 
“I don’t.” 
“Then clearly you have a skewed sense of priorities, if that’s what you’re using your brain space for.” I put as much snideness into the words as I could. 
“What do you use yours for, then?” He didn’t sound offended, only a little queer. 
“Important stuff.” I pulled away from him, turning over. “Job details. Things I might actually need.” 
“And what did you do before retrieval work?” asked Checker, still in that strange-sounding voice. 
“Beijing, huh?” he said. 
“Yeah,” she said. “Mom’s got a huge house there. I told her I wouldn’t go without you, but she said she’d have to negotiate it with you, I told her you’d probably freak, but she said that the two of you were adults who could discuss it rationally.” 
“And then she gassed me.” 
“That was Benny,” she said. “Mom was very cross with him about it. She’ll be back soon, Dad, and I want you to promise me that you’ll hear her out, OK?” 
“I promise, rotten,” he said. 
“I love you, Daddy,” she said in her most syrupy voice. He gave her a squeeze on the shoulder and a slap on the butt. 
He opened the door again. Benny was there, imperturbable. Unlike the UNATS robots, he was odorless, and perfectly silent. 
“I’m going to go to the toilet and then make...  
“I would be happy to assist in any way possible.” 
“I can wipe myself, thanks,” Arturo said. He washed his face twice and tried to rinse away the flavor left behind by whatever had shat in his mouth while he was unconscious. There was a splayed toothbrush in a glass by the sink, and if it was his wife’s—and whose else could it be?—it wouldn’t be the first time he’d shared a toothbrush with her. But he couldn’t bring himself to do it. Instead, he misted some dentifrice onto his fingertip and rubbed his teeth a little. 
His voice sounded like it was coming from a million miles away. Shrouded in her breathing hood, Valentine felt like she was in the first days of a better nation, a time when everything worked and smelled of sharp cleanliness, not rot and ruin. Hooded figures walked past them without a glance. 
The old hero led her deep into the maze, then through yet another airlock. 
“Comrade,” the old hero said. “A word, please.” 
The hooded figure to whom he spoke looked up from its workbench and peered through the old hero’s hood. Then it saluted smartly and hurried to the old hero’s side. 
“General—” The hooded figure had a man’s voice, almost as old as the old hero’s voice. 
The old hero—the general—touched his hand to his hood and then pulled a retractable wire out of his helmet and presented it to the other. The other patched it into his helmet’s collar. Even with her marvelous new ears, Valentine couldn’t hear what they said. 
They released their umbilicus a moment later and the other one turned to Valentine. 
I shied away from that thought. Bridges, crossing them, whatever. I could wait and see how this played out first. 
I returned her message, telling her to pick up the burner in Hollywood at ten p.m. the following night. Then I sent a message to the Lancer: Everything is in motion. How soon can you be in Los Angeles? 
Now it was time to booby-trap my own building to catch him in. 
I returned from a full night of making preparations to find two messages waiting for me. 
En route, was all Martinez’s said. The Lancer’s was a lot more suspicious, quizzing me about my plans and making it clear he wanted to be with me at the pickup from the beginning. 
Do not double-cross me. I know who your associates are. With the click of a button, I could ruin you. 
Damn the fact that I’d had to use my real name. Real name? You know it’s not your real— I slammed away that line of thought. The Lancer was implicitly threatening Tegan, and probably also Arthur; it wouldn’t take much asking around to find out we worked together on occasion. Fucker. 
It was black and more rust-free than the other cars parked along the curb. (Did I mention we live in South Minneapolis? The part that isn’t gentrified yet?) The parking situation was tighter than usual, with a snow emergency in effect and parking limited to one side of the street. I would probably hear the plows overnight, 
rumbling and beeping in the darkness. It was a noise I’d soon sleep through as the winter wore on, but in the first weeks of winter it sounded like a nightly invasion of beeping tanks. 
Monica might have to park blocks away, unless somebody left at just the right moment. That’s why I noticed that one of the cars not far from our house had a person in it. His engine was on; I could see the steam billowing up from the tail pipe. I watched for lights to go on as I peddled up the street, thinking I would try to hold the space for her. If she came home before I got into a fight with another driver or died of hypothermia, she’d get a great park- ing space, but the man in the car drive off. 
“Aside from the fact that I’m pretty sure whoever stole her notes cloned her hard drives, because it would be easy so why not do it, yes, I did. First of all, the note she showed you guys was emailed to her first, probably right after the robbery.” 
“She didn’t mention that,” I said. 
“Because she didn’t see it. It went to spam. That’s probably why she didn’t get the note until the next day.” 
Hmm. How had the perpetrators known their email had gotten spammed? Maybe they’d left spyware on her computer. It didn’t seem likely they would’ve broken back into her office unless they’d known they needed to. 
“Also, you know the email she sent to her friend at the NSA?” Checker continued. “The reason she approached him wasn’t that she was robbed. She started talking to him about the proof a few weeks ago, way before the burglary. I’m guessing she thought to start checking in with him about NSA possibilities after she finished the proof, but maybe she wanted to sit on the result for a little while before turning it over. Point is, that’s a pretty big coincidence.” 
“A hacker, you mean,” Arturo said. “A Eurasian agent. And my daughter is not in school. She used ExcuseClub to get out of school this morning and then she went to Fairview Mall and then she—” disappeared . The word died on his lips. That happened and every copper knew it. Kids just vanished sometimes and never appeared again. It happened. Something groaned within him, like his ribcage straining to contain his heart and lungs. 
“Oh, man,” the kid said. “Ada was the ExcuseClub leak, damn. I shoulda guessed.” 
“How do you know my daughter, Liam?” 
“She’s good at doing grown-up voices. She was a good part of the network. When someone needed a mom or a social worker to call in an excuse, she was always one of the best. Talented. She goes to school with my kid sister and I met them one day at the Peanut Plaza and she was doing this impression of her teachers and I knew I had to get her on the network.” 
Ada hanging around the plaza after school—she was supposed to come straight home. Why didn’t he wiretap her more? “You built the network?” 
“God, I can’t believe I finally found you. I’ve been searching everywhere. You know you’re the only conscious AI on the whole goddamned sea?” 
“I know,” Robbie said. There was a noticeable lag in the conversation as it was all squeezed through the satellite link and then across the unimaginable hops and skips around the solar system to wherever this instance was hosted. 
“Whoa, yeah, of course you do. Sorry, that wasn’t very sensitive of me, I guess. Did we meet this morning? My name’s Tonker.” 
“We weren’t really introduced. You spent your time talking to Kate.” 
“God damn ! She is there! I knew it ! Sorry, sorry, listen—I don’t actually know what happened this morning. Apparently I didn’t get a chance to upload my diffs before my instance was terminated.” 
“Terminated? The reef said you left the shell—” 
“Well, yeah, apparently I did. But I just pulled that shell’s logs and it looks like it was rebooted while underwater, flushing it entirely. I mean, I’m trying to be a good sport about this, but technically, that’s, you know, murder .” 
His eyes were firmly shut and he didn't stir in the slightest. He was in a deathlike stupor, and there were large bruises on his face and a bandage across his nose. Then his bed shift fell open and I noticed another bandage on his groin. 
"You've already done it!" I whirled back, ready to kill the bastard. 
"As I said, he was injected with a mild sedative." He had walked over and started taking Steve's pulse. "Given the . . . condition he was in, I decided to go with the simplest pro­cedure possible. After he was brought in, I made a small incision in the vas deferens and extracted a substantial quan­tity of motile sperm." He was turning down the lights. "Don't worry. I've performed the procedure before. The last was a Swedish tourist who was in a car accident up by Lake Atitlan and then lay in a coma in Guatemala City for weeks on end." 
I listened to him, my mind racing. I'd thought Kevin and Rachel looked Nordic, big and blond. That Swede must have been their father. 
"Those ova of mine you took, the way you stole Sarah's, and all the other women you've brought here—you don't use them for research." 
“I see!” she said slowly. “Then you’re going to—” 
“You are discharged,” interrupted Mrs. Enderby, “because I do not like to have my daughter’s companion running into the park to meet a young man.” 
“I see!” said Lexy again. 
And nothing more. All the warmth of her anger had gone, and in its place had come an overwhelming depression. For all her sturdiness and courage, she was young and generous and sensitive, and those words of Mrs. Enderby’s hurt her cruelly. 
She sat very still, looking out of the window. They had left the city now, and were on the Boston road. It was a sweet, fresh April day, and under a bright and windy sky the countryside was showing the first soft green of spring. 
Lexy remembered. She remembered the things she had so valiantly tried to forget—the dear, happy days that were past, spring days like this, in her own home, with her mother and father; early morning rides on her little black mare, and coming home to the old house, to the people who loved her; her father’s laugh, her mother’s wonderful smile, the friendly faces of the servants. 
“Shouldn’t have at all, really,” he admitted. “Everything’s gone upside down and backwards. The doc, too. First time I met her, she was the soul of diplomacy, thought I’d never see anything disturb that poise. And now she’s...” 
“Unhinged?” 
“It’s been a trying case,” he said. 
“She’s very...dedicated,” I offered. 
“That ain’t a tenth of it. You know, we both started getting death threats, anonymous, after this whole thing started—not sure if I should be insulted no one’s tried to follow through, by the by—and she always laughed. Said if someone killed her, they might start taking her husband’s death seriously.” 
“Really?” 
“Yeah. Some guy even threatened her son once. She got him a bodyguard and didn’t look back.” 
“Wow.” 
“Yeah.” Tresting leaned back in his chair and closed his eyes. “She’s a trip. Can’t even say she’s the craziest client I ever had, neither, though this is by far the craziest case. Glamorous life of a private eye, huh?” 
“Speaking of, what does a PI license let you do?” I asked, curious. 
"Yeah," Maya said. "How? They know everything about us. They can see every search. Every email. Every time we've been caught on the webcams. Who is in our social network -- you know that if you've got more than fifteen Orkut buddies, it's statistically certain that you're no more than three steps to someone who's contributed money to a 'terrorist' cause? Remember the airport? Imagine a lot more of that." 
"Maya," he said, carefully. "I think you're over-reacting. You don't need to go to Mexico. You can just quit. We can do a startup together or something. Or you can move to the country and raise dogs. Whatever. This is crazy --" 
"They came to see me today," she said. "At work. Two of the political officers -- the minders who monitor our sensitive projects. And they asked me a lot of very heavy questions." 
"About the googlecleaner?" 
"About my friends and family. About my search history. About my political beliefs." 
"Jesus." 
"They were sending me a message. They were letting me know that they were onto me. They're watching every click and every search. It's time to go -- time to get out of range." 
I almost followed up with “Has anyone told you your kitchen could be listed on the EPA website as a dangerous toxic waste site?” but because of Wilson, I kept it to myself. 
“How old are you?” 
I started to say something, then for some reason told the her truth. “nineteen.” 
“Shouldn’t you be in school?” 
“I go to an alternative school. It’s all self-paced. Besides, school let out already.” 
She sipped her tea, then seemed annoyed that it fogged up her glasses and she had wipe them off with a handkerchief. “So, your brother was arrested on terrorism charges?” she finally said. 
“Bogus terrorism charges. There’s video of it online.” I pulled out my phone, found the clip that was making the rounds on YouTube, then handed it over to her. 
She squinted, turned it on its side. “What am I supposed to do with this?” 
“Push the little arrow.” 
She pushed it, lowered it into her lap, then tried looking at it from under her glasses, as if trying to sneak up on it. “The screen’s far too small.” 
"Yes," Ethan said. "I typed roughly fifteen million words." 
"Nowadays, of course, no one types. It's all talking to computers now. When I was a girl, they all said that you'd always have a job if you just learned to type. Times sure change, don't they?" 
"Yes," Ethan and Grampa said together. Grampa startled like he'd been shocked. 
"Dad's coming tomorrow?" Sean said. 
Grampa said, "Yes. He's catching the 6 AM. He'll be here by 10." 
"Isn't that nice ," Adele said. 
They left Grampa and Ethan sitting at the table together. Sean looked back over his shoulder before they got on the elevator, and Grampa was still switched on, staring hard at him. 
"You must be excited about seeing your father again," Adele said to him when they were sitting around the pool. 
Sean was getting the hang of talking to Adele. "Ethan and my grandfather seem to be hitting it off." 
"Oh, I certainly hope so! Ethan could use some friends at that place." 
Sean pictured the two of them, seated across from each other at the ward table, running maintenance routines at each other, saying, "Yes," "Yes." Unbidden, a grin came to Sean's face. 
"A great philosopher once said, All religions are true.' Who are we to judge?" He paused. "Let me try and explain something. Those patterns you see the women weaving on the fabrics down in Baalum, those patterns are actually just like the designs on that thousand-year-old pyramid. But though that pyramid had been buried and lost to them for so many years, they still made the designs all those years, be­cause those symbols are a road map of their unseen world. Not the forest here where we are now, but their real world, where the gods dwell who rule the lightning bolts, the ger­mination of corn." He was at the door, preparing to leave, but he paused. "They also understand the . . . special infants who come are miracles that must be returned. They receive but they also must give. Now they wish you to be part of that." 
With that he closed the door with a swing of his long hair, a slam followed by a hard click. 
A s I watched him depart, hallucinations swirling through my brain like furious fireworks, I had a bizarre thought. In an ancient rainforest all things are still possible. The old fairy tales we grew up with mostly took place in a deep wood where evil could lurk unfettered. Today, though, the earth's forests no longer symbolize the unknowable dark within us. Nowadays, the ogres of our nightmares descend from outer space or even from our inner selves, places we can't physi­cally know or subdue. Here, though, at this very moment, Steve and Sarah and I were marooned in a thousand-year-old forest where horror still lived. 
“Think it’s a security thing,” Arthur answered. “Probably don’t want it digital until it’s behind enough sets of closed doors. Too easy for someone to copy it.” 
The afternoon we put on the final touches, Halliday and I sat out on the deck of the safe house, staring at the neatly completed proof stacked between us. I was drinking tequila out of the bottle and appreciating the fact that my various recent injuries had all mostly healed. She had a glass of ginger ale. 
“When’s the switchover happening?” I asked. I was exhausted, but something felt...good about finishing this. Complete. Like it had been a job that meant something. 
“Xiaohu’s coming by tomorrow morning, and I’ll be passing it off to him.” Halliday smiled. “He was giddy as a schoolboy when he told me they’d cleared him to take custody. I think a promotion might be in his future.” 
“He seems like a good guy,” I said. 
“Yes. And he reminds me...” She stood and wandered over to the railing. “He reminds me of why we do this. Of how amazing this is, what we are a part of, what we can build. He reminds me to love it. Sometime between the kidnapping and the government custody I had lost that.” 
His glassy and staring eyes. His gangly, purple limbs. Ray has the boy's sweet corpse smell up his nostrils, a constant sensory companion, though he knows he's just imagining it. The subconscious picks at horror like it's a scab. Any decent military psychologist will tell you that this is a good thing; it's an indicator that your coping mechanisms are on-line and humming feverishly over the task of putting the event behind you. 
Ray has had to rush to the head three times in the last two hours to vomit. He supposes that this is a coping mechanism, too. 
He doesn't feel like he's coping. He feels like he's being eaten alive. 
The traditional Marine response to stress on this scale of magnitude is to round up some similarly stressed buddies, find a bar frequented by military types and spend several hours getting astoundingly drunk. 
Additional therapy comes in the form of locating other military individuals attached to a different branch of the service (e.g., Air Force guys) who seem to have not encountered a combat level of stress induced psychological damage and thumping on them until they can begin to empathize. 
Sean gave Adele a ride the next day. She wore the sunhat and a lightweight cotton dress and sandals, and looked frail and quaint. 
Sean thought Adele would get off at a different floor, to visit Ethan, but she walked with him across Grampa's ward. 
Grampa was sitting just where he had been the day before. His chin was shaved blue, and he was impeccable. He was methodically slicing and eating a hamburger. 
"Grampa," Sean said. 
"Hello, Sean," Grampa said. He laid his knife and fork in a precise X on his plate and pushed it aside. 
"This is Adele. Her son is in the zero-function ward. She wanted to meet you. Adele, this is my grandfather, Brice Devick." 
"Pleased to meet you, Adele," Grampa said, and shook her hand. 
"Likewise," she said. "Do you know my Ethan? I'm worried that he doesn't seem to have any friends here." 
"I haven't met him," Grampa said. 
"Well, would you do an old lady a big favor? Go and visit him. Your grandson tells me you're smart -- Ethan is as smart as a whip. You two should have lots to talk about." 
"Near? Why, it must be thousands of miles! We came from Temperance in the cars. Then we drove a long ways to cousin Ann's and went to bed. Then we got up and drove ever so far to Maplewood, where the stage was. Our farm is away off from everywheres, but our school and meeting house is at Temperance, and that's only two miles. Sitting up here with you is most as good as climbing the meeting-house steeple. I know a boy who's been up on our steeple. He said the people and cows looked like flies. We haven't met any people yet, but I'm KIND of disappointed in the cows;—they don't look so little as I hoped they would; still (brightening) they don't look quite as big as if we were down side of them, do they? Boys always do the nice splendid things, and girls can only do the nasty dull ones that get left over. They can't climb so high, or go so far, or stay out so late, or run so fast, or anything." 
Mr. Cobb wiped his mouth on the back of his hand and gasped. He had a feeling that he was being hurried from peak to peak of a mountain range without time to take a good breath in between. 
"She seems to be turnin' out smart enough lately, but she's consid'able heedless," answered Miranda, "an' most too lively." 
"We must remember that it is deficient, not excessive vitality, that makes the greatest trouble in this world," returned Mr. Burch. 
"She'd make a wonderful missionary," said Mrs. Burch; "with her voice, and her magnetism, and her gift of language." 
"If I was to say which of the two she was best adapted for, I'd say she'd make a better heathen," remarked Miranda curtly. 
"My sister don't believe in flattering children," hastily interpolated Jane, glancing toward Mrs. Burch, who seemed somewhat shocked, and was about to open her lips to ask if Rebecca was not a "professor." 
Mrs. Cobb had been looking for this question all the evening and dreading some allusion to her favorite as gifted in prayer. She had taken an instantaneous and illogical dislike to the Rev. Mr. Burch in the afternoon because he called upon Rebecca to "lead." She had seen the pallor creep into the girl's face, the hunted look in her eyes, and the trembling of the lashes on her cheeks, and realized the ordeal through which she was passing. Her prejudice against the minister had relaxed under his genial talk and presence, but feeling that Mrs. Burch was about to tread on dangerous ground, she hastily asked her if one had to change cars many times going from Riverboro to Syria. She felt that it was not a particularly appropriate question, but it served her turn. 
Of course, now I had to get off the grounds. Grigoryan had probably raised every alarm in the place before he set foot in that room. I flicked the M16’s selector lever to semiauto—automatic fire was for people more concerned with looking impressive and chewing up furniture than being deadly. I didn’t need spray-and-pray; I needed precision. 
The one thing M16s do pretty well is accuracy. If you’re a good shot, it’s possible to hit a target six hundred meters away. And I was better than a good shot. When it came to guns, I was a fucking computer program. 
Some people—those I might be tempted to call “good people”—preferred a fair fight. Sniping a target from a long distance without any warning at all was disturbing to them. Killing at all was disturbing to them. 
I wasn’t one of those people. 
With every loud bark of the M16 in my hands, the projectile motion played out perfectly and another tiny target dropped in the distance, efficiently clearing my way to exit the Grigoryan estate. It was like reading a particularly artistic mathematical proof: every step as it should be, every piece following seamlessly from the last with no wasted moves. 
I had no proof Sarah was in Guatemala yet, and if she was, it would doubtless be under a different name. What's more, telling them my suspicion that she'd been kidnapped by a high official and brought here would definitely brand me as a conspiracy theorist. So for now, all I could really hope to get from them was an address for Alex Goddard's clinic, someplace to start. Where and what was "Ninos del Mundo"? Apparently the woman hadn't fully understood that. 
Moments later a thirtyish male attache showed up, looking very harried. He also could have been president of the local Young Republicans, with a cute haircut and preppie tie, knot­ted perfectly. 
"Hi, I'm Mel Olberg. How can I . . .?" 
I told him I wanted to see someone who was responsible for the records of missing American tourists. I also sensed he was edgy and trying to get it over with fast; all the while he kept checking his watch, only half listening. 
"Gee, I really wish you'd come earlier," he said. "Monday afternoons are a little nuts around here, weekly reports due and all, and it's getting late." When he glanced at his watch again, making sure I noticed, I found myself wanting to yell at the guy. "I mean it's been two years since this woman you're looking for filled out a landing card. We might have something in the files, but. . . would it be possible for you to come back tomorrow?" 
Sean's father stared right through her, at Sean. "It's an obvious question, I know, but what are you doing here?" 
"It's my thesis," Sean said, and floored the rental, headed for the Home. 
"Whee!" Adele said. 
"How's Grampa?" Sean's father asked. 
"Oh, he's delightful," Adele said. "We introduced him to my Ethan yesterday, and they're getting along famously. Sean, introduce me to your charming father, please." 
"Dad," Sean said, through grit teeth, "This is Adele. Adele, my father, Mitch. We were thinking of getting day-passes for Grampa and Ethan and taking them to Universal. You ever been to Universal, Dad? I hear you come down here a lot." His normally fragmented attention was as focused as a laser, boring into his father through the rear-view. 
His father's stern face refused to expose any of his confusion. "I don't think I want to go to Universal," he said. 
"Oh, but it's wonderful ," Adele gushed. "You shouldn't knock it until you've tried it." 
"I don't think so," Sean's father repeated. "What's your thesis?" 
"Do you eat meat?" Mom's pretty acclimated to living in California. 
"I eat anything that doesn't eat me first," she said. 
"She's a hot-sauce junkie," I said. "You could serve her old tires and she'd eat 'em if she could smother them in salsa." 
Ange socked me gently in the shoulder. 
"I was going to order Thai," Mom said. "I'll add a couple of their five-chili dishes to the order." 
Ange thanked her politely and Mom bustled around the kitchen, getting us glasses of juice and a plate of biscuits and asking three times if we wanted any tea. I squirmed a little. 
"Thanks, Mom," I said. "We're going to go upstairs for a while." 
Mom's eyes narrowed for a second, then she smiled again. "Of course," she said. "Your father will be home in an hour, we'll eat then." 
"Yeah," she said. "I was going to clean out my bank account on the way home at an ATM. I've got maybe five hundred saved up." 
"What am I going to spend it on?" she said. "Ever since the Xnet, I haven't had to even pay any service charges." 
When supper was cleared away Rebecca insisted on washing and wiping the dishes, while Mrs. Cobb worked on the dress with an energy that plainly showed the gravity of the task. Rebecca kept leaving her post at the sink to bend anxiously over the basin and watch her progress, while uncle Jerry offered advice from time to time. 
"You must 'a' laid all over the breedge, deary," said Mrs. Cobb; "for the paint 's not only on your elbows and yoke and waist, but it about covers your front breadth." 
As the garment began to look a little better Rebecca's spirits took an upward turn, and at length she left it to dry in the fresh air, and went into the sitting-room. 
"Have you a piece of paper, please?" asked Rebecca. "I'll copy out the poetry I was making while I was lying in the paint." 
Mrs. Cobb sat by her mending basket, and uncle Jerry took down a gingham bag of strings and occupied himself in taking the snarls out of them,—a favorite evening amusement with him. 
Rebecca soon had the lines copied in her round school-girl hand, making such improvements as occurred to her on sober second thought. 
I tightened my grip on the chain, and before I could second-guess myself I leaned my whole body weight on it and hauled. 
The door screeched up on its tracks with a violence that made adrenaline spike into my bloodstream. I found my four little electromagnets with my eyes to make sure they’d stayed in place, even though if they hadn’t, I wouldn’t very well have had time to look. 
I pried my damp grip off the chain and staggered back a few steps. A dusty breeze blew in from the alley outside, turning the perspiration on my face clammy. Without warning the urge to vomit redoubled itself, and my legs wanted to melt while my left hand started burning like a motherfucker. 
Apparently my body knew how dumb I was being, even when I didn’t. And it wanted nothing more than to walk right out and not look back. 
But I still had eighteen and a half minutes, and fuck it, the dangerous part was over. I had my exit, and the batteries wouldn’t drain in the time before the building pulverized itself. No reason to waste the opportunity. 
“She’s a walking skeleton.” The beautiful blonde woman was in the kitchen, tinkering with the cooker. It was the pre-war kind, capable of printing out food with hardly any intervention. Valentine was hypnotized by her fingers. 
“You want...  her with some drinking chocolate, Ana,” the wizard said....  love chocolate.” 
She hadn’t tasted chocolate in—She didn’t know. Her mouth was flooded with saliva. The woman, Ana, pressed some more buttons and then took down a bottle of rum from a cupboard. 
“Will you have rum in yours, little girl?” 
“I—” 
“She’s a little young for rum, Ana,” the wizard said. He sat down on one of his curvy sofas and it embraced him and unfurled a foot-rest. 
“I’ll have rum,” she said. She was dying, and she wouldn’t die without at least having one drink, once. 
“Good girl,” Ana said. “There’s a war on, after all.” She poured a liquid with the consistency of mud into a tall mug and then added a glug or two of rum and pushed it across the counter then fixed one for herself. “Come and get it, no waitress service here.” 
She concentrated on her monitor. “I told you to leave me alone.” 
“You called me,” he pleaded. 
“In a moment of weakness. I believe I was very clear I do not want any help from you.” 
“Arthur?” I said. 
He made a “back off” motion at me with one hand. “You need help. You told me I wouldn’t understand, well, I brought someone who will. Just talk to us. Please.” 
“What is your area of specialization?” said Halliday. 
She hadn’t looked up, and it took me a second to realize she was talking to me. I wasn’t great at reading people’s tones, but it had never been more obvious someone was trying to set me up to fail. 
Oh, fuck you. 
I plopped down in one of the chairs across from Halliday’s desk, sprawling in an inelegant slouch. “You know. I do a little of everything.” 
“I do not mean to be rude,” said Halliday, “but Arthur does not grasp the level of depth and complexity in my field—” 
“Liar,” I said. “You do mean to be rude. Go on, say what you’re thinking.” 
She finally turned to regard me, folding her hands on the desk in front of her. “Miss...Miss Russell,” she said, the title only slightly questioning, “I know personally everyone in the same line of research as myself. You must understand how specialized areas of higher math are. Even doctorates in the same general area would require a great deal of study to understand what—” 
Rhindquist laughed and said Jap, my bright boy, you are a treasure, a walking focus-group. I'm not paying you enough. And then he gave me a raise! He called someone on his phone and said, Give my boy a raise, and they did! I am sending home a little money as an attachment with this note, and a picture of me in my Special Vice-President's suit. 
Every afternoon, Rhindquist shuts off his phone and my watch, and a pretty secretary wheels in a big TV. We watch movies! Rhindquist says he likes to unwind with a movie at the end of the day. The movies are old and funny, and I've never seen them before. Rhindquist sure has, though! He knows most of them by heart! Yesterday, we watched one called Educating Rita, and Rhindquist told me that I am like Rita. I already had that figured out, though. Rita is a dumb girl from England, Ltd., and she works as a hairdresser until someone from management teaches her all about life. I liked the movie a lot. I think that Rhindquist will teach me lots and lots about management, too. 
"There's a person we want to find. A person who's left the country, apparently headed for Mexico. She knows certain things that are, as of today, classified. She needs to be briefed on her new responsibilities." 
Greg stood up. "I'm not going to find Maya for you." He pulled on his jacket. 
"There are plenty of people here who will. It's up to you, though. You can work here with her, being productive, or you can find out just how rotten life can get -- while she works here, being productive with your co-workers." 
Greg stared at him, his hands balled into fists. 
"Come on," the rumpled man said. "Greg, we both know how this goes. When you said yes to me in your kitchen, you lost the option of saying no. It's not so bad, is it? Who would you rather have doing the nation's intelligence: you and your pals here in the Valley, or a bunch of straight-edge code-grinders in Virginia?" 
Greg turned on his heel and left. He made it all the way to the parking lot before he stopped and kicked a wall so hard he felt something give way in his foot. 
“And to keep the street safe,” Arthur added absently. 
He always had a higher opinion of me than was warranted, but at this particular moment I wanted to deck him for it. Instead I just didn’t correct him. 
I parted ways with Arthur and jetted my sport bike up to Van Nuys, a slightly less glamorous neighborhood in the Valley where people who weren’t movie stars could afford to live. I parked the motorcycle a few blocks from Checker’s house and snuck around the block and through his backyard, just in case there were already eyes on him. Not that it would help if the men in black came knocking. Fucking NSA. 
Checker’s computer cluster and workspace was a converted garage he had affectionately nicknamed “The Hole,” and I pushed open the side entrance to find it a flurry of activity. The space was already crowded, what with the stacks of computer towers and monitors wallpapering it on all sides, and in the small space in the middle Checker was zipping his wheelchair back and forth and throwing tablet computers at Pilar while trying to tell her things she obviously already knew. 
"It is coming, Emmie," she said presently; "do you remember in The Mill on the Floss, when Maggie Tulliver closed the golden gates of childhood behind her? I can almost see them swing; almost hear them clang; and I can't tell whether I am glad or sorry." 
"I shouldn't care how they swung or clanged," said Emma Jane, "if only you and I were on the same side of the gate; but we shan't be, I know we shan't!" 
"Emmie, don't dare to cry, for I'm just on the brink myself! If only you were graduating with me; that's my only sorrow! There! I hear the rumble of the wheels! People will be seeing our grand surprise now! Hug me once for luck, dear Emmie; a careful hug, remembering our butter-muslin frailty!" 
Ten minutes later, Adam Ladd, who had just arrived from Portland and was wending his way to the church, came suddenly into the main street and stopped short under a tree by the wayside, riveted to the spot by a scene of picturesque loveliness such as his eyes had seldom witnessed before. The class of which Rebecca was president was not likely to follow accepted customs. Instead of marching two by two from the seminary to the church, they had elected to proceed thither by royal chariot. A haycart had been decked with green vines and bunches of long-stemmed field daisies, those gay darlings of New England meadows. Every inch of the rail, the body, even the spokes, all were twined with yellow and green and white. There were two white horses, flower-trimmed reins, and in the floral bower, seated on maple boughs, were the twelve girls of the class, while the ten boys marched on either side of the vehicle, wearing buttonhole bouquets of daisies, the class flower. 
"I'm sorry, ma'am," he informed her. "I really can't understand what you're saying." 
She seemed to wilt at first, but came back at him bravely, with just a tint of self-deprecation. Still very game, 
and pleased by his clear understanding of standard American. "My pronunciation is that bad, then? I suppose lessons will only take one so far. It's always better to become immersed in the culture. " 
"I don't know. I'm not sure what language it was you were trying to speak." 
That, apparently, was a stunner. "But it was Mexicali!" 
"Huh. News to me. I don't speak Mexicali." 
"But..." And she tried, honestly tried, to stop herself before it popped out, before she looked like an idiot. 
He used to get that quite a bit, back when he was fresh to EED, away from Terran space, where...  hispanics were curiosities, cultural artifacts for people who had left Terra in their youth, or knew all they did about her from books and vids and computer software. Enamored by Aztecs was what they were. 
Except, he's not really even hispanic, either, not in the classical, racial, cultural sense. His great-great-grandfather was hispanic, actually lived in a Mexicali barrio. But his great-great-grandmother was Swiss- Austrian. They both had spoken pure, unadulterated American from birth. Worked in American cities, 
"He's going to be the best of us all." 
"I hope you don't slight things in the kitchen because I ain't there. Do...  it upside down on the winder-sill?" 
"Yes, aunt Miranda." 
"It's always 'yes' with you, and 'yes' with Jane," groaned Miranda, trying to move her stiffened body; "but all the time I lay here knowin' there's things done the way I don't like 'em." 
There was a long pause, during which Rebecca sat down by the bedside and timidly touched her aunt's hand, her heart swelling with tender pity at the gaunt face and closed eyes. 
"I was dreadful ashamed to have you graduate in cheesecloth, Rebecca, but I couldn't help it no-how. You'll hear the reason some time, and know I tried to make it up to ye. I'm afraid you was a laughin'-stock!" 
"No," Rebecca answered. "Ever so many people said our dresses were the very prettiest; they looked like soft lace. You're not to be anxious about anything. Here I am all grown up and graduated,—number three in a class of twenty-two, aunt Miranda,—and good positions offered me already. Look at me, big and strong and young, all ready to go into the world and show what you and aunt Jane have done for me. If you want me near, I'll take the Edgewood school, so that I can be here nights and Sundays to help; and if you get better, then I'll go to Augusta,—for that's a hundred dollars more, with music lessons and other things beside." 
Her gaze flickers away uncertainly. "My brother was sent to fetch me, to bring me home. My mother is ill. 
The family needs— oh, you know. Family responsibilities. Frederick still bears the brunt of it, of course, 
because he is the scion of such a great and noble house, but he can't care for mother and the charitable trust and the businesses and everything else, even with Amah-" She stops herself abruptly. "It's boring, Ray. A long and boring story." 
Ray nods. He understands something about exigencies, long and boring, but which remain exigencies nonetheless. 
"I'm sorry," he says. 
"Don't worry. I'm certain Frederick has already provided the necessary tutors to complete my education. He can't very well let his little sister be practically a cultural illiterate ! That would be so mundane, so crass. " 
Ray had actually been thinking about the ailing family matriarch, but he thinks it's probably best not to clarify the point. Instead, he says, "Well, maybe getting home won't be so bad. I'm sure there have been some exciting changes in your absence. Outlier colonies tend to ebb and flow rapidly." 
"It started with China," she said. "Once we moved our servers onto the mainland, they went under Chinese jurisdiction. They could google everyone going through our servers." Greg knew what that meant: if you visited a page with Google ads on it, if you used Google maps, if you used Google mail -- even if you sent mail to a gmail account -- Google was collecting your info, forever. 
"They were using us to build profiles of people. Not arresting them, you understand. But when they had someone they wanted to arrest, they'd come to us for a profile and find a reason to bust them. There's hardly anything you can do on the net that isn't illegal in China." 
Greg shook his head. "Why did they put the servers in China?" 
"The government said they'd block them if they didn't. And Yahoo was there." They both made a face. Somewhere along the way, Google had become obsessed with Yahoo, more worried about what the competition was doing than how they were performing. "So we did it. But a lot of us didn't like the idea." ...  her voice. One of the dogs whined. "I made it my 20 percent project." Googlers were supposed to devote 20 percent of their time to blue-sky projects. "Me and my pod. We call it the googlecleaner. It goes deep into the database and statistically normalizes you. Your searches, your gmail histograms, your browsing patterns. All of it." 
They’d had a fleet of at least four SUVs and the windowless van. Figure about fifteen hundred square feet just for those vehicles—that was the size of a small house. And they probably had more. 
These guys had a ton of gear, but it wasn’t high-end or exotic, it was cheap and effective. This wasn’t going to be one of the more unusual enemies I’d gone up against—they weren’t Dawna Polk with her shiny military precision and ornate secret base or Vikash Agarwal with his absurd ray gun and ridiculous mountain lair. These people were more like me. All about business. 
Which meant I was looking for a building that had already existed, not an unmapped metal dome in the middle of the desert or a special underground staging area. The unpopulated bits of my search ring faded out, too. 
And I knew what I was looking for. A large building, probably an industrial warehouse of some kind. 
There weren’t all that many places left to look. Doing a drive through all the most likely ones would only take me about five hours, depending on how bad rush hour traffic got out here. 
"I remember," Ray says, scowling. 
It may be that Holcomb remembers it the same way. A fleeting shadow, like pain or guilt, clouds his features. 
He continues, "I was a grand fool then, Ray. I admit that. But I was a fool because I came from a rational tradition. Our culture, our society, put away a belief in devils around the time of the Salem witch trials. We responded to our own penchant for hysteria by denying its source, by embracing science and tactual reality and the physical world as a singular, dominant principle. We threw out the baby with the bath water, as it were. 
"After Ba'dai, I was insane for quite some time. I won't pretend that I was anything else. I have distinct memories of babbling to you about things I'm sure neither one of us understood at the time. But I wasn't insane in the traditional sense. I was achieving some sort of radical reorientation of consciousness. I was developing a perception of the dual nature of existence, with all that such a transformation entails. You know what that looks like, don't you? What it means? You've seen filthy old sinners converted to good Baptist standing, struck by Grace, transmogrified into Sunday-suit wearing zealots who see the finger of the Divine in every decision, every coincidence, every conversation. Conversion to a new paradigm is the introduction to a vast and terrible unexplored country. And turning your back on accepted reality— the reality that the mass of humanity has created and agreed upon— is the definition of madness. 
"Sell me your stake. He sells Mac his stake. The paperwork's inside, on the fax machine." 
"You're joking," the Series A man said. 
"That's the deal," Lee-Daniel said. "And I don't see anyone offering anything better." 
There was a tinkle from the bus and Joey Riel sped away with a stack of optical switches, off into the night, staggering slightly from the burden and the booze. 
"I need to call the partners," the Series A man said. 
"You have fifteen minutes. Better not take much longer," Lee-Daniel said, as an expensive crash resounded from the direction whence Joey Riel had gone. 
"Fifteen minutes?" the Series B man said, whitening. 
"You want several weeks?" Lee-Daniel said. He wiped his palms on his thighs and kept his grin off his face. It'd be good to get back in the driver's seat. 
Hi, Mom! 
Wow, you won't believe what happened today. First of all, I was nearly late for work because my new roommate is worried about the electrical and he pulled out all the plugs last night, even my alarm clock! His name is Tony, and I think he is either weird or crazy, or maybe both! He keeps saying that the Company uses the plugs to listen to our minds! He unplugged all the electricals and put tape over them in the middle of the night. When I woke up this morning, my room was totally black! I had my flashlight from work on the chair near my bed, and I used that to find the living room. 
A million words jammed together in my mouth that I couldn’t get out, like when you hit too many keys on an old-fashioned typewriter and they get stuck together. Proof? Like, women are supposed to take pictures when they’re being attacked or it didn’t happen? I wanted to punch that big nose of his. 
“She knows,” Sarahh said. And that was that. Zeke looked like he wanted to keep arguing about it, but then he looked at me and gave a small shrug. Okay. He’d take my word for it. Barely. 
My phone gave a loud blurp. 
<nikko> done <Zen> how' d it go? 
Seconds ticked by before another message gurgled in. 
<nikko> we have a problem “So?” I asked him when he arrived at the hotel suite. “What happened?” 
“It started out fine,” he said, “but then . . .” His voice trailed away as he caught sight of Sarah. “Oh, hi.” 
“You’re Nikko,” she said, sweeping over to him with a hand outstretched. “I hear you’re a talented actor.” 
“Well, I actually, um . . .” His face grew red as he took her hand, 
but he looked more mortified than happy. “It’s awesome to meet you. I really admire your work.” 
"Hello." It was a man's voice that sounded vaguely fa­miliar. "Thought I'd check in and see how things are going with your search." 
"Hi," I answered back after a pause, trying to place his intonation. 
"Oh, sorry. Barry Morton. Remember me? Fortress Amer­ica. You came by the office yesterday." 
"How . . . ?" Why was he calling me? "How did you get this—?" 
"You must have accidentally put the wrong hotel on your landing card as your address in Guatemala City." He hesi­tated a second then said "But I had my secretary call around and . . . well, it happens all the time." 
"I see." It did have the ring of logic. And I had put down a different hotel. A safety measure. "Do you always take this much . . . interest in your fellow citizens?" 
"Only when they come to see me personally." He chuck­led. "So how's it going?" 
"Well, thanks for calling," I said. "Everything's moving along." 
"Good, good." There was another pause, then, "Inciden­tally, you having any luck finding that Ninos del Mundo place you were looking for?" 
The horribleness of the roadhouse went asymptotic to infinity at minute four, as you sat down and tried to eat...  down at a table crowded with middle-managers in need of reassurance while swatting away the buzzing aerostats that probabilistically routed towards those diners with the highest credit ratings, delivering pitches whose tone and content had been honed by genetic algorithms that sharpened them to maximal intrusiveness and intriguingness. It took a genetic algorithm to make a high colonic sound like an afternoon at a spa. 
"I'm getting too old for this shit," said Joey Riel, a 17-year-old metis whose fluency...  made him the youngest middle manager in CogRad history, eight months before. He'd started griping about his road-weariness within days of his promotion up from antennaman. It made him fit in with the other, older middle...  whose time on the road had drummed out any footloose spirit they might have once possessed. 
Further down the arcade, the investors were waving their tokens over a trading table, playing the instant futures market. An aerostat overhead mirrored the gameplay, and as Lee-Daniel watched, MacDiarmid doubled his money on a short-odds bet on two cherries and a lemon, then Earnshaw lost big when his long-odds investment on uranium and coal came back with two windmills and a photovoltaic array. 
The ewok held up his paw. "But how much should we be willing to trade, Ms. McCavity?" 
She looked into the camera, keeping her eyes still, the way she'd been told to if she didn't want to appear tourettic. "Wickett, when Franklin said, 'Those willing to give up a little liberty for a little security deserve neither security nor liberty,' he wasn't spouting empty rhetoric, he was laying the groundwork for this enduring democratic experiment that we all love. Look, we're not opposed to the use of autonomous networks for some applications, even most applications, with appropriate safeguards and checks and balances. No nation on earth has the reliance that we do on these networks. Are they an appropriate way of advising you on the best way to get to the mall on a busy Saturday? Absolutely, provided that everyone gets the best advice the system can give, regardless of economic status or influence. 
But should they be used to figure out whom the FBI should open an investigation into? Absolutely not. We use judges and grand juries and evidence to establish the sufficiency of a request to investigate a private citizen who is considered innocent until proven guilty. We learned that lesson the hard way, during the War on Terrorism and the Ashcroft witch-hunts. Should we trade grand juries and judges for ant-colonies? Do you want the warrant for your wiretap issued by an accountable human being or by a simulated ant-hill?" 
For a time her relief was an ecstasy. She could trust herself again. She was so happy in that knowledge that she could have shouted aloud, to waken Mrs. Royce and Captain Grey, and tell them. The monstrous burden was lifted, she was free, she was her old sturdy, trustworthy self again. 
She sank into a chair by the kitchen table, staring before her into the dark, her lips parted in a smile of gratitude and delight; and then, suddenly, the smile fled. She rose to her feet, her hands clenched, her whole body rigid. 
“He did it!” she said again. “It’s the vilest and most horrible thing anyone can do. He tried to steal my soul. He turned me into that poor, terrified, contemptible creature. I’ll never in all my life forgive him. I’m going to find out—about that, and about Caroline. I’ll never give up trying, and I’ll never forgive him!” 
She groped her way through the dark kitchen and into the hall. That was where she had first seen Dr. Quelton. She stopped and turned, as if she were looking into his face. 
Ray thinks about it for a moment. His understanding of the drone data core environment is less than profound. 
"What would be the ramifications if I did that?" 
"The dialogue transform capability as Lawrence designed it is deeply imbedded in the dynamic apprehension logic. Dynamic apprehension is, in turn, related to parameter driven task streams-what you might think of as personal initiative and individualized goal setting constructs. You might see shifts in my behavior. I might become a bit contentious when your commands conflicted with my own perception of mission value and/or risk acceptability. There are other issues, but I'll need some processing time to give you a detailed report. Too many variables." 
What can it hurt? 
So, did you realize that human user Ray, who has been observed conducting highly secure transmissions with officers of the Criminal Investigations Unit of the EED, this same Ray develops a shift in blood flow patterns suggesting tumescence when in spatial proximity to human user designated Emma Whiston? 
into yer and "for" into/er. 
In Ray's line of work, finding someone who can make a successful go at assuming a role to which he is entirely unsuited and despite his copious shortcomings is distinctly comforting. 
Inside, Frankie is playing maitre d' to a rapidly thinning clientele, tall and stiff in a shining dark suit with lapels that are too wide and a red silk shirt beneath open at the collar to show his (dyed) chest hair. He spots Ray and scampers across the dining room, lunges for Ray's outstretched hand and circles it in a double-fisted, 
vigorous shake. 
"Hey! Mr. Marlowe, benevenutti, eh? Carlo said yous was gonna stop by for a little somethin' this afternoon. 
How's it treating you?" Frankie isn't paying attention to Ray at all, but rolling his eyes up and down Emma's curves with lascivious attention to detail. When he's finished his survey, he cocks his head to Ray, wide smiles, winks. "Forget I asked. It's treating you good, real good, I see." 
He's having too much fun for Ray to tell him to can it.  1 1 1 "You want a table or a boot, Ray?" 
I wasn’t under arrest, it turned out. Whatever I had heard in the confusion must have been a mistake, or so they claimed. 
The handcuffs, too. Crossed signals. Mistakes...  listened to their excuses with one eyebrow raised, perfectly polite and absolutely clear that she didn’t believe a word of it Later, I found out that Nikko had live- tweeted the bust, grabbing and posting shots from the video feed as events unfolded, then uploading short snippets from the sting, 
Besides, I probably had worse bruises than he did. 
At the same time, by strange coincidence, a photo of Simon Meyer turned up on Instagram and rapidly went viral. It didn’t take long for people to connect the dots. Good old Simon was not only a sexual predator, he was a fake activist on the FBI’s payroll. 
The afternoon and evening was a blur of fear and excitement and bureaucracy and sitting on hard chairs, waiting for decisions to be made. We’d done it. We’d exposed how these stings worked. 
After being publicly humiliated they’d have to let my brother go. I felt like a balloon filling up with righteousness and excitement, as if my skin was actually stretching to contain it all. But instead of lifting me up so I could float away, it popped. 
Lexy looked at Mr. Binz with an angry and reproachful frown, which the poor man did not understand. He had only wanted to give helpful advice. 
“Come on, then!” she said to Captain Grey. 
“I’ll leave you at Mrs. Royce’s,” he told her. 
“No, you won’t!” she contradicted with a trace of severity. “If you will go, I’m going with you!” 
He protested against this, but she would not listen, and so they went to the garage for Joe’s taxi; but Joe and his taxi had gone out. An interested bystander said that they could get a “rig” from the livery stable with no trouble at all. They had only to find the proprietor, and he, in turn, would find the driver, who would harness up the horse. 
“No, thanks,” said Captain Grey. He turned to Lexy. “I can’t wait,” he told her. “I’m going to walk. Thank you for—” 
“I can walk, too,” said Lexy. “It’s only three miles.” 
“I don’t want you to, Miss Moran.” 
“I’m coming anyhow,” she replied. 
For that instinct in her, the thing which was beyond reason, drove her forward. She could not let him go alone. She had walked that three miles once before to-day, and she had walked farther than that with Houseman in the afternoon. 
Ray leans out over the railing where he can observe a two hundred meter scalloped cross-section of the thirty levels above and below. 
Most of them have been powered down by Environmental Control to simulate late evening, close-of-business-hours inactivity. From this vantage point, if he cranes his neck, he can see all the way up to the plastisheen observation dome that pokes from the ship's outer hull like an opalescent pimple. He doesn't do this anymore, because even at relativistic velocities, the starfield doesn't change enough to be noteworthy. 
Ray can feel the heavy beat of kettledrums rolling up from the deck into his calves. Through the theater doors, he detects the occasional slap of cymbals or the fine, low hum of orchestral strings. After a few minutes, there's silence, then a burst of applause whose thunderous sincerity suggests the performance wasn't a canned holo from the ship's data library. Either that or the Madame was augmenting the response track to provide her customers with the subliminal cue that they'd gotten their monies worth. 
but for some reason, the most popular girls, who had been best friends with her, suddenly decided she was a joke. A total fail. 
A person who was so awful nobody could have anything to do with her unless torture was involved. They would invite her to parties and spend the whole time making fun of her. They said mean things about her in places where they knew she would over- hear them. 
One week they would repeat everything she said in a weird, nasal voice. The next week, they would all pretend she wasn’t there at all, staring right through her, which you could tell really got to her, being suddenly invisible, moving through the school hallways like a ghost. They snickered when she got called on in class, which made her freeze up and stutter. They wrote mean things on her locker. They had a Facebook group about her and bragged about the Snapchats they sent her saying, basically, 
you’re fat, you’re ugly, nobody likes you, why don’t you just die, 
already? 
Your typical eighth grade misery in concentrated form. 
A reference to the craft's flight data recorder. There's nothing more pathetic than a pilot covering his ass when asked to break protocol. 
Ray flips his comm to the open channel and informs his men that the drop point is getting fat. He listens as they sound off, one by one. In the background are reassuring military noises: the click of safeties off, the ratchet of rounds being advanced into chambers, the mutter of private "hoo-ah" pep talks. 
Then they're on the ground and the choppers are peeling back to a safe recon position like candy wrappers caught in a stiff breeze. They sprint almost due east, profiles low, clattering like some antique Industrial Revolution manufacturing machine. He's left the comm channel open, and he can hear his men, a Greek chorus of grunts and strong, disciplined exhalations. Their breath surrounds him like a geas of invulnerability. 
Ray drops the visor on his command helmet, obliterating a night of moonlit sand and night shadows. 
Geography becomes a sickly, greenish mottle sliced by gridlines and a peripheral scroll of compass points and tactical information. Just above his blind spot, left edge, a computer simulation tracks his squad of seven as orange, prokaryote blobs ranged around the yellow sliver that's supposed to represent him. He jumps the  display from light enhanced night vision to infrared with a sub-vocalized command. There are no heat signatures outside the ambient glow of the desert bleeding stored sunshine and the pulsating forms of Marines. 
<Gargle> You're not one of the nine? 
<Shad> Not me. My brother is. 
<Gargle> Oh fOrk. That sucks. 
<Shad> I'm really scared about this. He can't handle prison. 
Other people joined the thread. 
<inky> It's sounds like a total setup. 
<Shad> It was. One of those guys is working for the FBI . 
<inky> That's entrapment. 
<callmecheese> Isn't entrapment illegal? 
<DoDec> Technically, but most of the terror- ist convictions in the US since 9/11? That's how they got them. They *invented* them. Total set-up jobs. 
That was typical of DoDec. Whenever there was a question about whether something was illegal or not, he wrote these long, 
detailed answers. What’s weird is that he lives in Thailand where he runs a tech consulting company, but law is interesting to him, 
so he answers questions about it, whether the law someone is ask- ing about is in America or Australia or China or the terms of some obscure trade agreement. There are a lot of really smart people in the Group. 
<DoDec> The exceptions tend to be attacks that come out of the blue. Isolated people with a grudge and easy access to guns or small groups like the 7/7 bombers in London. They're not connected to known terrorist organizations except emotionally so they're really hard to anticipate . 
I strained at pulling my eyelids up and managed a foggy strip of light. 
Clack, clack, clack. 
I pushed as hard as I could, willing my muscles to contract, to twitch, but nothing happened. 
“It’s a neuromuscular blocker,” said a voice above me. “It paralyzes you. And besides that, you’re trussed up like a Christmas turkey.” 
I managed to focus my eyes a bit. My wrists were on the floor in front of me, in irons. They looked like my arms, my hands, but felt completely divorced from my body, like someone else’s limbs. 
In the background were two large booted feet and an intricately carved walking stick. 
Clack, clack, clack, went the meditation balls. 
A stack of papers hit the ground in front of the feet: the documents and credit cards I’d had Tegan mock up. 
“Seems you were planning to double-cross me,” said the Lancer’s voice. “I’m not into that.” 
Yeah. 
“I would have killed you right off—I usually kill people who double-cross me. But you still have information I want.” Clack, clack, clack. 
He came nearer, but the nurse drew back and stood with her back against the door. 
“Dr. Quelton has given strict orders—” she repeated. 
“No more of that, please!” he said with a frown. “I’m going to see Mrs. Quelton for a moment. Stand aside, please!” 
He did not raise his voice, but the quality of it was oddly changed. Lexy felt a thrill of pleasure in its cool assurance and authority. Perhaps he objected very much to “making a row,” but what a glorious row he could make if he chose! If he would only once face Dr. Quelton like this! 
“Stand aside, if you please!” he repeated, and the poor little nurse, very much flustered, did so. 
“I’m afraid Dr. Quelton will be—” she began, but Captain Grey had already entered the room. 
The nurse followed him, closing the door after her. Lexy opened it at once and went in after them. She caught a glimpse of the young man and the nurse vanishing through one of the long windows that led out to the balcony. For a moment she hesitated, looking about her at the big, dim room. The dark shades were pulled down, and not a trace of the spring’s brightness entered here. 
“I could introduce him to one of your agents, somebody undercover.” 
“I’ll bet you could. The questions you asked? Nicely done. 
You’d make one hell of an interrogator.” He turned to Jankovich. 
“I want to recruit this young man when he’s a little older. Sorry Janet. I got first dibs.” 
She blew air out of her cheeks and looked at her watch, mak- ing it clear that she wanted to get this show on the road. 
“Thing is, Nikko?” Martens said. “Given your age, we can’t ask you to take on a dangerous job.” 
“I don’t mind. I want to help.” 
“I appreciate that, but you’re a minor. It’s against the rules. So what I want you to do is stay away from Mr. Meyer and his big mouth. Far away.” 
“But . . . seriously?” 
“Oh, I’m serious, son. If he tries to talk to you again, make some excuse, get out of the situation without cluing him in that you’ve been talking to us. We’ll take it from here.” 
“But he trusts me. What if he’s already planning something? If we don’t act now, it could be too late.” 
“Son, your parents would be all over us if we put you in a situ- ation like this. I wouldn’t blame them, either. Bottom line: It ain’t gonna happen. That doesn’t mean we aren’t going to look into this guy now that you put him on our radar. We have people in the field. Professionals. We got this.” Martens stood and thrust out a hand. “Appreciate you coming in. You did the right thing.” 
Tonker shouted at him again, startling him. 
“Where’d you come from?” 
Robbie knew he was right. And he knew what he had to do. 
The Free Spirit and its ships’ boats all had root on the shells, so they could perform diagnostics and maintenance and take control in emergencies. This was an emergency. 
It was the work of a few milliseconds to pry open the Isaac shell and boot the reef out. Robbie had never done this, but he was still flawless. Some of his probabilistic subsystems had concluded that this was a possibility several trillion cycles previously and had been rehearsing the task below Robbie’s threshold for consciousness. 
He left an instance of himself running on the row-boat, of course. Unlike many humans, Robbie was comfortable with the idea of bifurcating and merging his intelligence when the time came and with terminating temporary instances. The part that made him Robbie was a lot more clearly delineated for him—unlike an uploaded human, most of whom harbored some deep, mystic superstitions about their “souls.” 
“Couldn’t tell; it was all coded up. But it’s useless.” 
“How do you know that if it’s encrypted?” 
His face was all moon-eyed hopelessness. “Asked Dawna Polk about it. She said it was nothing.” 
Holy crap. “Arthur, where is the drive now?” 
“Checker’s got it. I’m going to get it back from him and toss it, though.” 
“Arthur! Arthur, no, that’s—that’s not you talking; that’s—forget it. Have you talked to Checker about this yet?” 
He sighed. “I can’t reach him.” 
I was suddenly having trouble breathing. “You can’t reach him?” 
“No. It’s strange, you know? He usually answers. I can’t reach...I can’t reach anybody.” 
Oh, crap. Oh, fuck. How had I not thought of this before? Shit, I had mentioned Checker in my generous tell-all to Dawna, and I had only just met him. Arthur worked with him all the time. 
“Arthur,” I said carefully. “Don’t freak out, but did Dawna ask you about Checker?” Would it matter? Could she have seen everything anyway, whether or not she had asked? 
“No,” Arthur answered. “Well, not until after I mentioned him. She was real interested. He’s a heck of a guy, you know?” 
When the first brown gingham frock was completed, the child seized what she thought an opportune moment and asked her aunt Miranda if she might have another color for the next one. 
"I bought a whole piece of the brown," said Miranda laconically. "That'll give you two more dresses, with plenty for new sleeves, and to patch and let down with, an' be more economical." 
"I know. But Mr. Watson says he'll take back part of it, and let us have pink and blue for the same price." 
"Did you ask him?" 
"Yes'm." 
"It was none o' your business." 
"I was helping Emma Jane choose aprons, and didn't think you'd mind which color I had. Pink keeps clean just as nice as brown, and Mr. Watson says it'll boil without fading." 
"Mr. Watson 's a splendid judge of washing, I guess. I don't approve of children being rigged out in fancy colors, but I'll see what your aunt Jane thinks." 
"I think it would be all right to let Rebecca have one pink and one blue gingham," said Jane. "A child gets tired of sewing on one color. It's only natural she should long for a change; besides she'd look like a charity child always wearing the same brown with a white apron. And it's dreadful unbecoming to her!" 
“Oh, really? Why don’t you tell me then, Mr. SSA Finch?” 
Sweat had broken out all across his face, exacerbating the grayness. He rolled his gaze desperately toward Tresting, but the PI’s expression was unreadable. “I...I can get you a meeting with my supervisor,” he offered finally. “Please.” 
I began to be more than a little unnerved by his reaction. The man was folding like a wet piece of cardboard. Who the hell was Dawna Polk? Christ, my head hurt. “Fine,” I said. “Let’s go.” 
“You’ll come with us,” added Tresting. “We’ll set up a meet in a neutral place.” 
“Yes, all right, okay.” Finch sounded so desperate that I wouldn’t have been surprised if he’d started offering up friends and family as human sacrifices to us. “We can do that.” 
The doorbell rang. 
We all jumped. 
Tresting went to the window and peeked around the closed blinds. He swore softly. “Cops.” 
I looked at Leena. “Can you go out and tell them nothing’s wrong?” 
Tresting shook his head. “Too many. Shit. They already think something’s going down here. Someone must’ve seen us pull a weapon.” 
“Yes?” she said. 
“Open the door!” ordered Dr. Quelton’s voice. 
“No!” Lexy promptly replied. 
She put the handkerchief inside her blouse and stood facing the closed door, with her hands clenched. Now he knew! She heard him laugh quietly. 
“Perhaps you’re right,” he said. “It is better, perhaps, for us not to meet again. Even making every allowance for your hysterical, unbalanced mind, I find it difficult to excuse this latest manifestation which I have just this moment discovered. It was you, of course, who filled that bottle with water?” 
She did not answer. 
“Why you did it, I don’t know,” he went on, “and probably you don’t know yourself. It was the wanton mischief of an irresponsible child, but the consequences in this instance are serious—very serious. Mrs. Quelton will suffer for them. I doubt if she will recover. No, Miss Moran, you are too troublesome a guest. You had better go—at once!” 
“All right!” said Lexy, in a defiant but trembling voice. 
“At once!” he repeated. “I shall send your bag this afternoon.” 
"And since you're going to be here, that's our contact information. You see or hear anything strange, or you remember something you haven't told us, you give me ring, okay? Day or night, one of us will be around to take the call." 
Kilgore winks, smiling. "Can you dig it, Diggsy?"  "Man, don't make me bust you up." Then, to Ray, "I'll keep you in mind, Mr. Marlowe. You're gonna catch this guy, right?" 
"I'm going to do my best." 
But Diggs isn't happy with that answer. His gaze bores into Ray's eyes, his jaws set firmly. "I ain't no officer, 
sir. I do what I'm told-always have. But I keep my eyes open and pay attention to the lie of the land so to speak. There's something that's not right about this. It gives me the heebs; I ain't ashamed to admit that." 
A nod, that's all Ray gives him, just enough to show the warning was heard. "You're not the only one." 
"You watch your back, Mr. Marlowe." 
They arrive back on the Garden a little after midnight. Kilgore makes some noises about it being too late for proper carousing, like it's a duty he's itching to perform, but shuts himself up when they find a sec-o waiting outside their door. The man sees them coming and snaps to attention. 
