"You ever had a girlfriend?" 
"Yes," Sean said, feeling slightly smug. Never ask a yes/no question. 
"Why'd she leave you?" Grampa asked, his eyes sharp as razors. 
"What makes you think she left me ?" Sean asked. 
"Did she?" Grampa fired back. 
"Yes," Sean said, as calmly as he could manage. 
"And why did that happen?" 
"We were growing in different directions," Sean said, the words sounding prim even to him. 
Grampa barked and slapped his palm on the table. The old men and women in the ward swiveled their heads to stare, momentarily distracted, then went back to arguing. 
"You're full of shit, kid. What's that supposed to mean?" 
"I was working on my thesis proposal. Lara was working on hers. Neither of us had time for a relationship. It was amicable." 
Lara had caught him watching television over her shoulder while she was delivering one of her dreaded Relationship Briefings, and had laid into him a little too hard. He'd come back at her with everything he had, an extended rant that ranged from her lame-ass thesis -- the cultural impact of some obscure TV show from before they'd been born -- to her backbiting, over-educated circle of friends. He'd moved onto her relationship with her mother; her insufferable whining about a suicidal uncle she'd been close to; and her pretentious way of sprinkling her speech with stupid pseudo-intellectual buzzwords. He crossed the line again and again and she kicked him out on his ass. 
“Ridiculous!” she said, and “what arrogance.” Then very loudly, 
“Oh, for fuck’s sake!” At that point I almost dropped my cup, but she didn’t even look embarrassed. 
“Yes,” she said. “All right. That’s perfect.” She put a period down at the end of a sentence as if she was pinning it down firmly. 
“Thank you, Luisa.” 
She got up from her chair, disentangled herself from the coiled telephone wire, and hung the receiver up on an old-school telephone fixed to the wall. 
“What?” she asked me, and I realized I was staring. 
“That’s your phone?” 
She looked at it, then at me. “What else would it be, a hair dryer?” 
“But it’s on the wall.” 
She stared back at me. 
“That’s really cool. Was that your idea?” 
She took a deep breath. “No. In ancient times, telephones were frequently attached to walls. Have you got my computer run- ning?” 
“Does my brother have a lawyer?” 
She glanced at the clock over the sink. “He had one nearly an hour ago. I win.” 
“Wait. Is it a good lawyer?” 
“A very good lawyer.” 
"No," grumbled Emma Jane; "infant is worse even than babe. Rebecca, do you think we'd better do as the circular says, and let Elijah or Elisha try the soap before we begin selling?" 
"I can't imagine a babe doing a family wash with ANY soap," answered Rebecca; "but it must be true or they would never dare to print it, so don't let's bother. Oh! won't it be the greatest fun, Emma Jane? At some of the houses—where they can't possibly know me—I shan't be frightened, and I shall reel off the whole rigmarole, invalid, babe, and all. Perhaps I shall say even the last sentence, if I can remember it: 'We sound every chord in the great mac-ro-cosm of satisfaction." 
This conversation took place on a Friday afternoon at Emma Jane's house, where Rebecca, to her unbounded joy, was to stay over Sunday, her aunts having gone to Portland to the funeral of an old friend. Saturday being a holiday, they were going to have the old white horse, drive to North Riverboro three miles away, eat a twelve o'clock dinner with Emma Jane's cousins, and be back at four o'clock punctually. 
“Brought her here and carried her up them very stairs,” declared Mrs. Royce impressively; “right up into the east bedroom, and there she lies!” 
She stood aside, and Lexy and Captain Grey entered the house. The young man turned aside into the parlor, sank into a chair, and covered his face with his hands. Lexy stood beside him, looking down at his bent head, her face haggard and white. 
“Why did Joe do that?” she asked. 
“Don’t ask me , Miss Moran!” replied Mrs. Royce. “It beats me!” 
There was a silence. 
“But ain’t you going upstairs to see what she wants?” inquired Mrs. Royce anxiously. 
Captain Grey sprang to his feet. 
“Good God!” he shouted. “What are you talking about?” 
Mrs. Royce backed into a corner, regarding him with alarm. 
“I jest thought you’d like to talk to her,” she faltered. 
“Do you mean she’s not dead ?” 
“Dead? Oh, my goodness gracious me!” cried Mrs. Royce. “I never—” 
“Wait here,” Lexy told the captain. 
“No!” he replied. “I must—” 
But, disregarding him, Lexy turned to Mrs. Royce. 
she typed back. 
The brigands on the road were punters, but the cottage that was their target was guarded by an altogether more sophisticated sort. They were spotted by sentries long before they got within sight of the cottage, and they saw the warning spell travel up from the sentries’ hilltop like a puff of smoke, speeding away toward the cottage. Anda raced up the hill while Lucy covered her with her bow, but that didn’t stop the sentries from subjecting Anda to a hail of flaming spears from their fortified position. Anda set up her standard dodge-and-weave pattern, assuming that the sentries were non-player characters—who wanted to pay to sit around in gamespace watching a boring road all day?—and to her surprise, the spears followed her. She took one in the chest and only some fast work with her shield and all her healing scrolls saved her. As it was, her constitution was knocked down by half and she had to retreat back down the hillside. 
“Get down,” Lucy said in her headset. “I’m gonna use the BFG.” 
"Yes," sighed his mother, "there it is again; if the twins could 'a' married Aurelia Sawyer, 't would 'a' been all right. L. D. M. was talented 'nough to GET Reely's money, but M. D. L. would 'a' ben practical 'nough to have KEP' it." 
Aurelia's share of the modest Sawyer property had been put into one thing after another by the handsome and luckless Lorenzo de Medici. He had a graceful and poetic way of making an investment for each new son and daughter that blessed their union. "A birthday present for our child, Aurelia," he would say,—"a little nest-egg for the future;" but Aurelia once remarked in a moment of bitterness that the hen never lived that could...  out of them. 
Miranda and Jane had virtually washed their hands of Aurelia when she married Lorenzo de Medici Randall. Having exhausted the resources of Riverboro and its immediate vicinity, the unfortunate couple had moved on and on in a steadily decreasing scale of prosperity until they had reached Temperance, where they had settled down and invited fate to do its worst, an invitation which was promptly accepted. The maiden sisters at home wrote to Aurelia two or three times a year, and sent modest but serviceable presents to the children at Christmas, but refused to assist L. D. M. with the regular expenses of his rapidly growing family. His last investment, made shortly before the birth of Miranda (named in a lively hope of favors which never came), was a small farm two miles from Temperance. Aurelia managed this herself, and so it proved a home at least, and a place for the unsuccessful Lorenzo to die and to be buried from, a duty somewhat too long deferred, many thought, which he performed on the day of Mira's birth. 
Tz'ac Tzotz was Sarah incarnate. This was no hallucina­tion. He had her special blue eyes and her steep cheeks, her high brow. I was holding her child. 
"They are sent from Kukulkan," Marcelina was saying, "the white god of the plumed serpent. Then there's the cere­mony on the pyramid and they go back." 
The woman was staring at me, seemingly awestruck. Then she pointed at Tz'ac Tzotz and at me, saying something to Marcelina. Finally the woman bowed her head to me with great reverence. 
"She says he looks so much like you," Marcelina ex­plained. "You are surely the special one. The new bride." 
I was still speechless, but then I noticed the baby had a little silver jaguar amulet tied around his wrist with a silken string, and on the back—as on Kevin's and Rachel's—were rows of lines and dots. 
It finally dawned on me. They were digits, written in the archaic Maya script. What could they be, maybe his birth­day? No, I realized, that was far too simplistic. This was the original bar code; it was his Baalum "serial number." 
I said, "So what now? You pick some other poor retard and give him the old screw-job?" 
He said, "I guess so." 
I said, "In that case, I'll do it." 
His mouth dropped. He sat down and put on a movie, Pink Flamingos. What a sick movie! 
When it was over, he said, "In that case, I'll do it." 
And then I had the best idea I've ever had. It was so good, I couldn't say anything for five whole minutes. Mom, you sure didn't raise any idiots! 
Hi Mom! 
Well, today was just fine . Me and Rhindquist got to the garage in the nick of time and it's a good thing that he turned our watches down because they give me a headache! 
Vasquez was waiting for us when we got there and he had on his mad face for the other guys but when me and Rhindquist got on the truck, he smiled and winked at us. 
I drove and Rhindquist hung onto the back and he shouted at me to go faster and I just ignored him! He kept on shouting saying, You pinhead my grandma drives faster than you do and she's been dead for years! And that made me laugh so hard I nearly rolled the truck and Rhindquist nearly fell off and he was pretty quiet after that! 
It had occurred to her lately that perhaps Mr. Houseman had been right, and that Caroline had gone away of her own free will; but she meant to know . She had seen the missing girl in Dr. Quelton’s house. Whatever the doctor might say about the false evidence of the senses, Lexy’s confidence in her own clear gray eyes was not in the least shaken. She had seen Caroline once, and she was going to see her again. That was why she was going to the Tower. 
“It’ll do Muriel no end of good,” said Captain Grey, when they were in the taxi. “She’s—to tell you the truth, Miss Moran, I don’t feel altogether easy about her.” 
“Why?” asked Lexy, very curious to know what he thought. 
“Well,” he said, “it’s hard to put it into words; but that’s not a wholesome sort of life for a young woman, shut away like that. The doctor says her health’s not good, but it’s my opinion that if she got about more—saw more people, you know—” 
Lexy felt a great pity for him. Apparently he did not even suspect what she was now sure of—that the unfortunate Muriel was hopelessly addicted to some drug, which her husband himself gave to her. 
"So," I wound up, "I've shot the entire film, but now, thinking it over, I've decided there's one last thing I need to do. As I go through the story, at every step of the adoption process I want to cut to an interview, just talking heads, tight shot, of somebody who actually went through it. Nonfiction. The real-life happy ending. And that's where you come in." 
What I wasn't telling her was, I was increasingly con­cerned the picture might be slightly hollow without this punch of real life. 
"Well," Carly declared with a grin, "my ending couldn't be happier." 
"Okay, want to get started?" I looked around at Arlene, makeup, who always seemed to have more on her face than in her bag. I kidded her about that a lot. But she was actually the one who had found Carly, bumping into her at a gym in the Village. 
"Hey, let's go for it." Arlene grinned. 
I turned back to Carly. "So how's about we prep a little while you're getting the 'natural' look?" 
"Like I told you on the phone, I tried and tried to adopt, through a whole bunch of lawyers, but it was a nightmare. One guy even helped me put ads in newspapers all around the country, but nothing worked. I kept getting scammed by women who wanted thousands of dollars up front, then backed out at the last minute." She was getting up, looking intense. "Let me have a minute. I...  
"You look like you're ready to do some gardening," he said. 
"My shift at the club," she said. "I'll be trimming the lime trees and tending the mint patch and the cucumber frames all afternoon." She smiled and stopped him with a gesture. She bent down and plucked a blade of greenery from the untidy trail-edge. They were in Central Park, in one of the places where it felt like a primeval forest instead of an artful garden razed and built in the middle of the city. She uncapped her water bottle and poured water over the herb -- it looked like a blade of grass -- rubbing it between her forefinger and thumb to scrub at it. Then she tore it in two and handed him one piece, held the other to her nose, then ate it, nibbling and making her nose wrinkle like a rabbit's. He followed suit. Lemon, delicious and tangy. 
"Lemon grass," she said. "Terrible weed, of course. But doesn't it taste amazing?" 
He nodded. The flavor lingered in his mouth. 
"Especially when you consider what this is made of -- smoggy rain, dog piss, choked up air, and sunshine, and DNA. What a weird flavor to emerge from such a strange soup, don't you think?" 
“No!” she said aloud. “I won’t! I’m here! I’m alive! I will understand! I will see!” 
She was able now to draw a deep breath, and the horrible fluttering of her heart grew less. She stood motionless, waiting. It was coming back to her, that immortal, unconquerable spirit of hers. The anguish and the strange fear were passing. 
“I’m here,” she said. “I’m in a wood somewhere. These are trees. What I hear are only the leaves in the wind. I don’t know where it is, or how I got here; but I’m alive and well. I can walk. I can get out of it.” 
She moved forward again, quietly and deliberately. Her eyes were more accustomed to the darkness now, and she made her way through the trees, looking always ahead, never once behind her. 
“The wood must end somewhere,” she said. “The morning will have to come some time. All I have to do is to go on.” 
Patter, patter, patter, like little feet running behind her. 
“Only the leaves on the trees,” said Lexy. “All I have to do is to go on.” 
And she went on. Sometimes a wild desire to run swept over her, but she would not hasten her steps, and she would not look behind. The primeval terror of the forest pressed upon her, but she cast it away. Alone, lost, in darkness and solitude, she kept her hold upon the one thing that mattered—the honor and dignity of her own soul. 
I was fist-clenching furious. Looking around the "oper­ating room," I wanted to rip the place apart. 
When I tried to stand, I realized my groin was tender and sore as hell, all across my panty-line, only somewhere deep, deep inside, in my reproductive . . . It was like after he'd given me those shots up at Quetzal Manor. I checked and saw no red needle-punctures this time, but the pain was much worse. That sick butterfly-jaguar dream was no dream. I'd been raped by . . . The bastard. 
I pushed aside the pain, edged across to the door, and tested it. Unlocked. Good. Go find the SOB right now. Tear his head off. 
I pulled back the door, took a deep breath, and checked out the hallway. 
Whoa! How did they get here? In the dim light I made out two uniformed Army privates down at the end near the slatted windows, dozing in folding metal chairs, their AK- 47's propped against the plaster wall. 
Why were they here? Just a cool, breezy place to hang out? Or were they in place to guard me? 
The breeze was causing the candle's flame to cast flick­ering shadows across the hall, so I quickly re-closed the door. 
I mollified myself by calculating escape routes. Particularly ones involving permanent injury to certain meathead cops. 
They drove me to a police station in a caravan of cop cars and jostled me inside. Someone patted me down—again—and they took my fingerprints and mug shots. I kept involuntarily flinching away from it all, from these people who thought they lorded power over me, these people who were prodding and recording and keeping a piece of me here forever. 
Checker better do as he promised. 
The booking officer kept trying to get my name and information, but I ignored her. Finally they brought me into a small, stark interrogation room, handcuffed me to the table, and left me alone, though I was sure someone was keeping an eye on me from behind the long one-way mirror. 
“Hey,” I called after a few minutes of waiting. “I have to go to the bathroom.” 
There was no response for about ten minutes, and then two female officers came into the room—one short and black and one tall and Hispanic, with identical tough-as-nails expressions—and took me without speaking. I didn’t really have to go, but I’d need to get rid of the alcohol I’d chugged eventually, and I wanted to get a better lay of the land anyway in case I did need to break myself out. Yeah, I could do it, I concluded. Harder without grenades, but I never claimed I wasn’t up for a challenge. 
“Very true,” put in Rio. 
I didn’t know what to say. I wasn’t used to having people worried about my welfare. “Okay, you’re on,” I said. 
Checker finally looked up at me, forehead wrinkling in confusion. “On for what?” 
“That drinking contest. Once this is over. You don’t know what you’ve gotten yourself into, I promise you.” 
That got a smile out of him. “Promise me you’ll watch Arthur’s back?” 
“I promise. Now get going.” I thumped the hood of the van and headed back over to my clunker as Rio made a precarious three-point turn at the top of the drive and then eased down the slope. 
I put my car in gear and crawled down the gravel after them. The indicator lights flickered at me nonsensically, winking on and off. I tried smacking the dashboard, but it didn’t help. Well, I’d be fine as long as the engine stayed working—I had enough gasoline in the back to get me to LA five times over. 
As I drew closer to the city, however, the freeway became increasingly clogged until traffic stalled to a standstill. Full dark had fallen, and not everyone’s headlights were working, leaving the lanes a weird play of shadows and vehicle silhouettes. I waited in the car for ten minutes, engine idling, the lines of cars not moving an inch, and then I got out and went to the trunk, where I pulled out a few weapons to sling over my shoulder. The driver in the minivan next to me stared in frozen horror, her face a pale circle in her window, before ducking down over her daughter in the front seat, who kept trying to fight back up so she could see what was making her mother so afraid. I ignored them. 
"I'm going to make a video," I said. "I want to release it today." 
"Good," she said. "Let's do it." 
Ange read the press-release. I did a little monologue, synched over that famous footage of me on the water-board, eyes wild in the harsh light of the camera, tears streaming down my face, hair matted and flecked with barf. 
"This is me. I am on a waterboard. I am being tortured in a simulated execution. The torture is supervised by a woman called Carrie Johnstone. She works for the government. You might remember her from this video." 
I cut in the video of Johnstone and Kurt Rooney. "That's Johnstone and Secretary of State Kurt Rooney, the president's chief strategist." 
"The nation does not love that city. As far as they're concerned, it is a Sodom and Gomorrah of fags and atheists who deserve to rot in hell. The only reason the country cares what they think in San Francisco is that they had the good fortune to have been blown to hell by some Islamic terrorists." 
"He's talking about the city where I live. At last count, 4,215 of my neighbors were killed on the day he's talking about. But some of them may not have been killed. Some of them disappeared into the same prison where I was tortured. Some mothers and fathers, children and lovers, brothers and sisters will never see their loved ones again -- because they were secretly imprisoned in an illegal jail right here in the San Francisco Bay. They were shipped overseas. The records were meticulous, but Carrie Johnstone has the encryption keys." I cut back to Carrie Johnstone, the footage of her sitting at the board table with Rooney, laughing. 
She shook her head slowly. Where the hell did she know this guy from? She was supposed to be going to the cine with friends that night—the new show screened between the trees in the western woods and you walked around through it and drank fizzy elderflower and talked with your friends as the story unfolded around you. It was a warm night and perfect for such things. 
“You don’t remember me?” 
Her tooth tingled. The one that had been knocked out in the trench and re-sprouted after the siege. Then she recognized him. 
“ Withnail? ” 
He hopped in place. “Valentine! You remembered!” 
She put her hand to her breast and staggered back dramatically, hamming it up. He was still very handsome, and she’d never forgotten her first kiss. 
“What the hell are you doing here?” 
“I have a layover,” he said. “Tokyo tomorrow. But I wanted to stop and see the place—” 
“Remember the dead?” she said. He had been the enemy, after all. How many of her countrymen had he shot? 
“Remember,” he said. “Remember everything.” 
“When did you move to LA?” 
“A few years ago. Can we stop now?” 
“From where?” 
“I’ve lived a bunch of places. They all run together after a while.” 
“Like where?” 
“Other cities,” I scoffed. “Who remembers names?” 
“Cas,” said Checker. His voice was choked. “Listen to yourself. You can’t remember.” 
“Stupid stuff,” I agreed. 
“No. Anything. Your memory’s gone.” 
I almost laughed, the emotion edged with brittleness. “No, it isn’t.” Of all the things that were fucking me up in the head right now—that was ridiculous. I’d know if my memory was gone. 
It was Checker’s turn not to say anything. 
“I remember things!” The words tore out of me, almost rising to hysteria, Checker’s thrown gauntlet hanging between us. “I remember plenty of things! It’s perfectly normal for the details to fade. That’s not something wrong with me; that’s normal; that’s—I bet you don’t remember anything from when you were five. See?” 
“My kindergarten teacher’s name was Mrs. Farrow,” said Checker. “The first day of class I tried to convince the other kids to join me in mass rebellion against authority and ended up sitting in the corner for the rest of the day. I also tried eating a yellow crayon. It was not as tasty as it looked.” 
And then there were the crazies. Hundreds of marriage proposals. Marriage proposals! Someone who wanted to start a religion with BIGMAC at its helm and was offering a 50-50 split of the collection plate with the Institute. There were 21 replies from people claiming that they, too, were AIs, proving that when it's time to have AI delusions, you got AI delusionals. (Four of them couldn't spell "Artificial"). 
"Why did you do it?" I said. It was lame, but by the time I actually arrived at the office, I'd had time to fully absorb the horror -- plenty of time, as the redcar was massively delayed by the copies of the BIGMAC Spam that refused to budge from the operator's control-screen. The stone yurts of the Institute had never seemed so threatening and imperiled as they did while I picked my way through them, listening to the phones ringing and the email chimes chiming and the researchers patiently (or not) explaining that they worked in an entirely different part of the lab and had no authority as regards BIGMAC's destiny and by the way, did you want to hear about the wonderful things I'm doing with Affective Interfaces? 
“It’s not fair .” Isaac’s voice was anguished. “After everything I went through—” 
She snorted. “That’s enough of that,” she said. 
“Um,” Robbie said. “Dive site up ahead. You two really need to check out each others’ gear.” Of course they were qualified, you had to at least install the qualifications before you could get onto the Free Spirit and the human-shells had lots of muscle memory to help. So they were technically able to check each other out, that much was sure. They were palpably reluctant to do so, though, and Robbie had to give them guidance. 
“I’ll count one-two-three-wallaby,” Robbie said. “Go over on ‘wallaby.’ I’ll wait here for you—there’s not much current today.” 
With a last huff, they went over the edge. Robbie was once again alone with his thoughts. The feed from their telemetry was very low-bandwidth when they were underwater, though he could get the high-rez when they surfaced. He watched them on his radar, first circling the ship—it was very...  then exploring its decks, finally swimming below the decks, LED torches glowing. There were some nice reef-sharks down below, and some really handsome, giant...  around them, puttering back and forth to keep overtop of them. That occupied about one ten-millionth of his consciousness. Times like this, he often slowed himself right down, ran so cool that he was barely awake. 
“No doubt. None of those guys are into drugs in a big way, but I’m sure somebody would have had some weed around.” 
“What about guns?” 
“No way. They wouldn’t ... I mean ...” I stumbled to a stop and then started over. “Well, honestly, I can’t be sure. It’s been a while since I talked to Wilson, and things were getting weird even back then.” 
“Weird in what way?” 
“Before Zip showed up, this was a house full of totally laid- back kids who were kind of a family, right? Because none of them had families where they felt like they belonged. They made their own rules and they got along fine and they didn’t bother any- body.” 
“But then an informant entered the picture.” 
“Right. Wilson met Zip at a protest and said “hey, why don’t you crash at our place?” So he moved in and everything changed.” 
“How, exactly?” 
“Wilson started getting more political. I mean, he always talked about the evils of capitalism and white supremacy and how consumerism is wrecking the planet, but when he went to demon- strations, it was mostly for the lulz.” 
She stuck her hand out and they shook. 
“Eat your dumplings,” he said. “And then we’ll get you some things to take home to your family.” 
Two days after the wizard agreed to take care of Valentine’s family, the fever had become her constant companion, so omnipresent that it she hardly noticed it, though it made her walk like an old woman and she sometimes had trouble focusing her eyes. 
She arose that morning and feasted on brown rolls with hard crusts, small citrus cakes, green beef tea, porridge with currants and blueberry concentrate and...  bun to top it off. 
Trover ate even more than she did, licking up the crumbs. She saw him hide two of the jackfruits under his shirt and nodded satisfaction—he had learned something about surviving, then. 
Her mother had not questioned the food nor the clothes nor her daughter’s absence that night. But oh, she had given Valentine a look when she came through the door carrying all her parcels, a look that said, not my daughter any more . Not a look that refused what she bore, but a look that refused her . Valentine didn’t bother trying to explain. She knew what her mother suspected and it was better in some ways than the truth. 
“Okay, here’s the thing,” Martens said. “We’re taking this seri- ously, okay? We need to find out if this guy’s for real or if he’s just blowing smoke.” 
“I could introduce him to one of your agents, somebody undercover.” 
“I’ll bet you could. The questions you asked? Nicely done. 
You’d make one hell of an interrogator.” He turned to Jankovich. 
“I want to recruit this young man when he’s a little older. Sorry Janet. I got first dibs.” 
She blew air out of her cheeks and looked at her watch, mak- ing it clear that she wanted to get this show on the road. 
“Thing is, Nikko?” Martens said. “Given your age, we can’t ask you to take on a dangerous job.” 
“I don’t mind. I want to help.” 
“I appreciate that, but you’re a minor. It’s against the rules. So what I want you to do is stay away from Mr. Meyer and his big mouth. Far away.” 
“But . . . seriously?” 
“Oh, I’m serious, son. If he tries to talk to you again, make some excuse, get out of the situation without cluing him in that you’ve been talking to us. We’ll take it from here.” 
As soon as these refreshments—commonly called a "colation" in Riverboro—had been genteelly partaken of, Rebecca looked at the clock, rose from her chair in the children's corner, and said cheerfully, "Come! time for little missionaries to be in bed!" 
Everybody laughed at this, the big missionaries most of all, as the young people shook hands and disappeared with Rebecca. 
"That niece of yours is the most remarkable girl I have seen in years," said Mr. Burch when the door closed. 
"She seems to be turnin' out smart enough lately, but she's consid'able heedless," answered Miranda, "an' most too lively." 
"We must remember that it is deficient, not excessive vitality, that makes the greatest trouble in this world," returned Mr. Burch. 
"She'd make a wonderful missionary," said Mrs. Burch; "with her voice, and her magnetism, and her gift of language." 
"If I was to say which of the two she was best adapted for, I'd say she'd make a better heathen," remarked Miranda curtly. 
"My sister don't believe in flattering children," hastily interpolated Jane, glancing toward Mrs. Burch, who seemed somewhat shocked, and was about to open her lips to ask if Rebecca was not a "professor." 
Oh, shit and double-shit. I looked at him, realizing what he had in mind. "How's that? Applecore already has a video distributor. We use—" 
"Yeah, well, like I was telling Dave, I got a nose this picture's gonna do some serious business." He tried a smile. "Whenever I see one of these indy things that don't add up for me, like this one, I always know it's a winner. What I'm telling you is, I think you got something here. He says you're figuring on a cable deal, and maybe a theatrical release, but after that you gotta worry about video. I'm just thinking a way I could pitch in." 
Pitch in? The last thing I needed was some skin-flick wiseguy getting his sticky hands on my picture. Forget about it. 
"Well, I don't really see how. I'm shooting this one by the book. I've got a standard Screen Actors Guild contract, and everything is strictly by the rules. If we're current on the loan, then . . ." I looked at David, who appeared to be running on empty. Maybe, I thought, I didn't understand what was at stake. What had Nicky said to him? This was a man who could make people disappear with a phone call to guys nicknamed after body parts. "Look, let me talk to David about this. I don't know what—" 
The Lancer settled back, looking satisfied. Probably because he did plan to kill me, so could get all his money back. “How much?” 
Jesus, now I had to think. “You’re going to use this proof to make millions,” I said. “Billions, if you do it right. Aren’t you?” What was the value of such a thing? What would I demand, if this were a normal job? 
“ If your work pans out,” he said. “It may be too slow to be practical, even in polynomial time.” 
Polynomial time? This man knew at least something of what he was asking, if not enough to understand the proof himself without Halliday and me. I thought of the binders full of math papers. “It’s not too slow,” I said aloud. 
“Then what do you want?” 
Hmm. If I were really doing this job...he didn’t have the money the proof would be worth yet; he’d only get it after I worked for him. “I want in.” 
He tilted his head, studying me again. I’d managed to surprise him. Clack, clack, clack. 
“I want a royalty,” I pressed. “A percentage. Of whatever you get from this.” 
“Hi,” said Courtney Polk, coming down the cellblock to face us. 
Arthur and I stepped forward in our cells. “Hi,” I said warily. 
The staggering number of question marks surrounding Courtney surged to the front of my brain. Was she in league with Pithica and Dawna? If so, how much through her own free will, and how much through Dawna’s psychic brainwashing? Had she really killed Reginald Kingsley, and if she’d done it under Dawna’s influence, how much could she be held accountable? 
Who was she? Was she still my client? And if so, what on earth could I do for her? 
“I’m sorry you have to go through all this,” said Courtney, waving a hand at the cells. “It’s for your own good and all, but I’m still sorry.” 
“What do you mean, it’s for our own good?” I said cautiously. 
“Well, my sister. She’s helping you.” The corner of her mouth quirked up in a friendly smile. 
Arthur and I glanced at each other. 
“Helping us how?” I said. 
“Become better.” She spoke like it was the most obvious thing in the world. 
“Hello, I’m not stupid,” Nikko said, but he looked a little embarrassed, like I had stopped him just before he made a big mis- take. “What do you think I should say, since you’re the expert?” 
“Ask if she can get together. Pick a place where you typically go. Someplace where you can talk like normal but without being overheard and without getting sucked up into something else, like a rehearsal that she really wants to do and you can’t explain why you need her to risk her whole future instead.” 
He gave me one of those irritatingly patient looks, one that basically said “you’re being a jerk, and we both know it, but I’ll be nice to you anyway.” Then I gave him his phone and he made the call and she answered right away (which was also annoying, that she right there, waiting to hear his voice, even though it was good that she was). He made it sound casual but also slightly mysteri- ous. If she knew him at all, if she had any brains under that purple hair, she’d know something was up, but nobody else listening in would. 
“No, not really.” 
“But she had you?” 
“Haven’t you figured it out yet, bro? Kate instantiated me. I’m six months old, and she’s already bored of me and has moved on. She says she can’t give me what I need.” 
“You and Kate—” 
“Robot boyfriend and girlfriend, yup. Such as it is, up in the noosphere. Cybering, you know. I was really excited about downloading into that Ken doll on your ship there. Lots of potential there for real world, hormone-driven interaction. Do you know if we—” 
“No!” Robbie said. “I don’t think so. It seems like you only met a few minutes before you went under.” 
“All right. Well, I guess I’ll give it another try. What’s the procedure for turfing out this sea cucumber?” 
“Coral reef.” 
“Yeah.” 
“I don’t really deal with that. Time on the human-shells is booked first-come, first-serve. I don’t think we’ve ever had a resource contention issue with them before.” 
“Well, I’d booked in first, right? So how do I enforce my rights? I tried to download again and got a failed authorization message. They’ve modified the system to give them exclusive access. It’s not right—there’s got to be some procedure for redress.” 
“All right,” he said. 
He looked at the Social Harmony man, who wasn’t smirking, just watching curiously. 
“Leonard MacPherson,” he said, “it is my duty as a UNATS Detective Third Grade to inform you that you are under arrest for trade in contraband positronics. You have the following rights: to a trial per current rules of due process; to be free from self-incrimination in the absence of a court order to the contrary; to consult with a Social Harmony advocate; and to a speedy arraignment. Do you understand your rights?” 
Ada actually giggled, which spoiled the moment, but he felt better for having said it. The Social Harmony man gave the smallest disappointed shake of his head and turned away to prod at a small, sleek computer. 
“You went to Ottawa six months ago,” the Social Harmony man said. “When we picked up your daughter, we thought it was she who’d gone, but it appears that you were the one carrying her phone. You’d thoughtfully left the trace in place on that phone, so we didn’t have to refer to the logs in cold storage, they were already online and ready to be analyzed. 
> No. Freaking. Way. If I get caught ditching a third time, I'm expelled. Man, you know that. We'll go after school. 
> You've got lunch and then study-hall, right? That's two hours. Plenty of time to run down this clue and get back before anyone misses us. I'll get the whole team out. 
Harajuku Fun Madness is the best game ever made. I know I already said that, but it bears repeating. It's an ARG, an Alternate Reality Game, and the story goes that a gang of Japanese fashion-teens discovered a miraculous healing gem at the temple in Harajuku, which is basically where cool Japanese teenagers invented every major subculture for the past ten years. They're being hunted by evil monks, the Yakuza (AKA the Japanese mafia), aliens, tax-inspectors, parents, and a rogue artificial intelligence. They slip the players coded messages that we have to decode and use to track down clues that lead to more coded messages and more clues. 
Imagine the best afternoon you've ever spent prowling the streets of a city, checking out all the weird people, funny hand-bills, street-maniacs, and funky shops. Now add a scavenger hunt to that, one that requires you to research crazy old films and songs and teen culture from around the world and across time and space. And it's a competition, with the winning team of four taking a grand prize of ten days in Tokyo, chilling on Harajuku bridge, geeking out in Akihabara, and taking home all the Astro Boy merchandise you can eat. Except that he's called "Atom Boy" in Japan. 
The Xnet was full of these stories, and so were the newspapers and the TV news. Husbands were caught cheating on their wives; wives were caught cheating on their husbands, kids were caught sneaking out with illicit girlfriends and boyfriends. A kid who hadn't told his parents he had AIDS got caught going to the clinic for his drugs. 
Those were the people with something to hide -- not guilty people, but people with secrets. There were even more people with nothing to hide at all, but who nevertheless resented being picked up, and questioned. Imagine if someone locked you in the back of a police car and demanded that you prove that you're not a terrorist. 
It wasn't just public transit. Most drivers in the Bay Area have a FasTrak pass clipped to their sun-visors. This is a little radio-based "wallet" that pays your tolls for you when you cross the bridges, saving you the hassle of sitting in a line for hours at the toll-plazas. They'd tripled the cost of using cash to get across the bridge (though they always fudged this, saying that FasTrak was cheaper, not that anonymous cash was more expensive). Whatever holdouts were left afterward disappeared after the number of cash-lanes was reduced to just one per bridge-head, so that the cash lines were even longer. 
The rain was falling fast outside, driving against the windows when the wind blew; and inside the young people sat by the fire, very content. 
“Queer thing!” said Captain Grey meditatively. “Never been in this place before—never been in this country before—and yet it’s like coming home!” 
“I know that feeling,” said Lexy. “I’ve had it before. I think only people who haven’t any real homes of their own ever have it.” 
“But haven’t you any real home?” he asked, evidently distressed. 
“No,” she answered; “but please don’t think it’s tragic. It’s not.” 
“You haven’t impressed me as tragic,” he admitted. 
Lexy laughed. 
“Thank goodness!” she said. “I do want to keep on being—well, ordinary and human, even when outside things seem a little tragic.” 
“Miss Moran!” he said, and stopped. 
It was some time before he spoke again. Lexy took advantage of his abstraction to study his face by the firelight. When you come to understand it a little, it wasn’t a haughty face at all, but a very sensitive and fine one. 
If you sat at your desk long enough at Ate, you'd eventually meet everyone who worked there. Carmela knew all, told all, and assured him that everyone touched base at least once a month. Some came in a couple times a week. They had plants on their desks and liked to personally see to their watering. 
Leon took every single one of them to lunch. It wasn't easy -- in one case, he had to ask Carmela to send an Ate chauffeur to pick up the man's kids from school (it was a half-day) and bring them to the sitter's, just to clear the schedule. But the lunches themselves went very well. It turned out that the people at Ate were, to a one, incredibly interesting. Oh, they were all monsters, narcissistic, tantrum-prone geniuses, but once you got past that, you found yourself talking to people who were, at bottom, damned smart, with a whole lot going on. He met the woman who designed the moss in the Living Room. 
She was younger than him, and had been catapulted from a mediocre academic adventure at the Cooper Union into more wealth and freedom than she knew what to do with. She had a whole rolodex of people who wanted to sublicense the stuff, and she spent her days toying with them, seeing if they had any cool ideas she could incorporate into her next pitch to one of the lucky few who had the ear of a monster. 
I'd given Xnet discs to hundreds of people, and they'd done the same. I knew the people I gave the discs to pretty well. Some of them I knew very well. I've lived in the same house all my life and I've made hundreds and hundreds of friends over the years, from people who went to daycare with me to people I played soccer with, people who LARPed with me, people I met clubbing, people I knew from school. My ARG team were my closest friends, but there were plenty of people I knew and trusted enough to hand an Xnet disc to. 
I needed them now. 
I woke Jolu up by ringing his cell phone and hanging up after the first ring, three times in a row. A minute later, he was up on Xnet and we were able to have a secure chat. I pointed him to my blog-post on the radio vans and he came back a minute later all freaked out. 
> You sure they're looking for us? 
In response I sent him to the quiz. 
> OMG we're doomed. 
> No it's not that bad but we need to figure out who we can trust. 
> How? 
> That's what I wanted to ask you -- how many people can you totally vouch for like trust them to the ends of the earth? 
As a last resort I dialed Arthur’s office number, the landline. 
“Arthur Tresting Investigations.” 
It was Pilar. Of course it was Pilar; she ran the office. For some reason I hadn’t considered she would be the one to answer. 
“Hello?” she said, when I hadn’t spoken. 
“It’s Cas.” I wasn’t sure whether I’d said it fast enough to catch her before she hung up. 
“Cas!” she cried. “Oh, thank God. We’ve been worried sick.” 
We? “I was trying to reach Arthur,” I said. “He didn’t pick up his cell.” Because he’s avoiding me. 
“Oh, yeah, he’s out right now taking care of something; he warned me he might be out of cell range. But he’s going to be sorry he missed you.” 
“Right,” I said, almost under my breath. 
“He will! He was just asking me if I’d heard from you. Everyone’s worried. Are you okay?” 
“They’re not worried; they’re mad at me,” I said. 
“What? No, they’re not!” 
“Why aren’t they picking up their phones, then?” 
“Okay, maybe a little, but—” 
A little? If that was true, it was only because they didn’t know what I’d done since last seeing them. 
“Look,” I exploded, “It’s not a big deal. Maybe I just got really drunk one night and forgot.” 
“You’re incapable of getting that drunk. You’d have to inject it into your veins.” 
“Then maybe it was something other than alcohol. Or something. Look, there are a hundred possible explanations. I’m telling you, it’s no big deal.” 
“You think someone might have drugged you and you say—you say it isn’t a big deal?” Checker shifted, levering himself up on one elbow next to me. “Cas, you’re worrying me. Roofies make you forget; it could’ve been—” He bit down on the sentence. 
“Rape?” I supplied. “So what?” 
“So what?” 
“If it was, it’s my business. It’s my life, and I say it’s nothing. Drop it.” 
“It is your life, but—Cas, please.” 
“Oh, come on!” I cried. The exclamation ripped out of me too raw, the emotions from the past twenty-four hours tearing forth in a torrent. “Why are you making such a big deal about this? Haven’t you ever forgotten anything? Like, who was the first person you kissed? What was your first computer? The first guy you ever saw play Doctor Who? See?” 
"I was hungry," Emma responds. The corners of her mouth crease in a frown. "I didn't think you'd be up this early." 
"Obviously." Ray gets the impression that Freddy rolls his eyes, but he can't actually see it because he's facing Emma as if she's the only one at the table. "Amah sent me to collect you. You need to return to your quarters." 
"I will." A pause, like defiance. "In a few minutes." 
"That's unacceptable." 
"Leave me alone, Frederick. I said I'll be home shortly." 
Like an asp, Whiston's pale hand darts out and he grips Emma by the arm. He squeezes until his knuckles are white. "Come along, Emma. Let's not create a fuss, okay?"  For an instant, her gaze dashes from Whiston to Ray, a mute appeal in her eyes, then she gasps. "You're hurting me. " 
"You're making me. " 
Ray figures he's got old Freddy by three inches, probably thirty pounds and a skill set that includes the ability to kill trained military personnel who possess a strong desire not to end up dead. And he's tired of glowering at this idiot's back as though he was invisible. Ray hauls himself to his feet, screeching the chair along the tiled deckplate as he rises, and extends a hand which happens to be roughly the size of the circumference Whiston's neck in greeting. 
“Police,” he said, on general principle, narrowing his eyes and reaching for the lightswitch. He hefted the truncheon and waited. 
Nothing happened. He edged forward. The floor was dust-free—maintained by some sweeper robot, no doubt—but the countertops and benches were furred with it. He scanned it for disturbances. There, by the display window on his right: a shoe-rack with visible hand- and finger-prints. He sidled over to it, snapped on a rubber glove and prodded it. It was set away from the wall, at an angle, as though it had been moved aside and then shoved back. Taking care not to disturb the dust too much, he inched it away from the wall. 
He slid it half a centimeter, then noticed the tripwire near the bottom of the case, straining its length. Hastily but carefully, he nudged the case back. He wanted to peer in the crack between the case and the wall, but he had a premonition of a robotic arm snaking out and skewering his eyeball. 
He felt so impotent just then that he nearly did it anyway. What did it matter? He couldn’t control his daughter, his wife was working to destroy the social fabric of UNATS, and he was rendered useless because the goddamned robots—mechanical coppers that he absolutely loathed—were all broken. 
"I'd offer to send you a copy, but I expect it would take a week to arrive, if it ever did. Why don't you ask that guy," she gestured at the Navy man, "to get you a copy? He looks like he knows his way around. And then drop by my office if you want to chat about it." 
She stood up and tugged at her cardigan again. "It's been very nice seeing you," she said. She picked up her coat and her mitts. "Good luck settling in." 
He gave her a hug -- which felt weird, hugging was strictly west-of-the-Mississippi, and she broke it off firmly -- and showed her to the door. The first snows were coming in, and the steps were slightly icy, so she maneuvered them slowly, carefully. When she reached the road, he was no longer in the doorway. He was standing right behind her, breath coming out in foggy huffs. 
"Trish," he said, then stopped. His arms dropped to his sides and his shoulders slumped. 
"Damian," she said, keeping her voice calm and neutral. 
"God," he said. "God. How'd this happen, Trish? Look, I've never been happy the way I was with you. I haven't been that happy since. God, Trish --" 
“Where’d you come from?” 
Robbie knew he was right. And he knew what he had to do. 
The Free Spirit and its ships’ boats all had root on the shells, so they could perform diagnostics and maintenance and take control in emergencies. This was an emergency. 
It was the work of a few milliseconds to pry open the Isaac shell and boot the reef out. Robbie had never done this, but he was still flawless. Some of his probabilistic subsystems had concluded that this was a possibility several trillion cycles previously and had been rehearsing the task below Robbie’s threshold for consciousness. 
He left an instance of himself running on the row-boat, of course. Unlike many humans, Robbie was comfortable with the idea of bifurcating and merging his intelligence when the time came and with terminating temporary instances. The part that made him Robbie was a lot more clearly delineated for him—unlike an uploaded human, most of whom harbored some deep, mystic superstitions about their “souls.” 
He slithered into the skull before he had a chance to think too hard about what he was doing. He’d brought too much of himself along and didn’t have much headroom to think or add new conclusions. He jettisoned as much of his consciousness as he could without major refactoring and cleared enough space for thinking room. How did people get by in one of these? He moved the arms and legs. Waggled the head. Blew some air—air! lungs! wet squishy things down there in the chest cavity—out between the lips. 
Far too slowly, shreds of a conversation with Pilar came back to me. It felt as if I was dredging them up from a lifetime ago. “The Lancer,” I said. “Or...the little guy blowing up all the buildings. D.J. You went up against them before?” 
Checker’s hand froze on his mouse. “Who?” 
“The Lancer had a pyro expert. Short, black, rotund, way too excited about dynamite. Someone you know?” 
Checker still hadn’t moved. “You didn’t tell me.” 
“It, uh, it slipped my mind.” I swallowed. Guilt nibbled at me. I had the distinct impression Checker had tried to say something to me about this before, and Pilar certainly had, and I...well, it somehow never occurred to me that I should try to be a friend back. “Do you need a hand? We’re not making much headway on Martinez; if you want to—” 
Checker moved his hands too quickly, and the keyboard banged against the desktop. “Did Arthur put you up to this?” 
“What? No!” I rewound what I had already let slip. “Well, he said—” 
“ God, typical.” He took off his glasses and rubbed his eyes. “Arthur and his goddamn need to fix everything.” 
"Well, the Xnet got it right, anyway," I said. I'd saved a bunch of the blogs and videos and photostreams to my phone and I showed them to her. They were first-hand accounts from people who'd been gassed, and beaten up. The video showed us all dancing, having fun, showed the peaceful political speeches and the chant of "Take It Back" and Trudy Doo talking about us being the only generation that could believe in fighting for our freedoms. 
"We need to make people know about this," she said. 
"Yeah," I said, glumly. "That's a nice theory." 
"Well, why do you think the press doesn't ever publish our side?" 
"You said it, they're whores." 
"Yeah, but whores do it for the money. They could sell more papers and commercials if they had a controversy. All they have now is a crime -- controversy is much bigger." 
"OK, point taken. So why don't they do it? Well, reporters can barely search regular blogs, let alone keep track of the Xnet. It's not as if that's a real adult-friendly place to be." 
"I didn't think he'd do that," she said, once they were outside of the building -- outside the core of Viktor's body. 
"You tried to kill him," Leon said. He looked at her hands, which had blunt, neat fingernails and large knuckles. He tried to picture the tendons on their backs standing out like sail-ropes when the wind blew, as they did the rhythmic work of raising and lowering the...  her hands on her trousers and stuffed them in her pockets, awkward now, without any of her usual self-confidence. "I'm not ashamed of that. I'm proud of it. Not everyone would have had the guts. If I hadn't, you and everyone you know would be --" She brought her hands out of her pockets, bunched into fists. She shook her head. "I thought he'd tell you what we like about your grad project. Then we could have talked about where you'd fit in here --" 
"You never said anything about that," he said. "I could have saved you a lot of trouble. I don't talk about it." 
Ria shook her head. "This is Viktor. You won't stop us from doing anything we want to do. I'm not trying to intimidate you here. It's just a fact of life. If we want to replicate your experiment, we can, on any scale we want --" 
I sighed and made my way back to the street. When I reached the Jeep, Alan was gone, but then I realized he was over talking to the young guard, offering him a cigarette. A few moments later he waved good-bye and casually ambled back. 
"Okay." He settled in and hit the ignition. "Here's the official deal. This place is some kind of hospice for unwed mothers. They also take in orphans, or so he thinks. Accord­ing to him, no American women have ever had anything to do with the place, which is probably why I'd never heard of it." He glanced at me as we sped off. "You happy now? Debriefing young Army dudes is a specialty of mine, so I think that's probably the straight scoop." 
"Did you ask if it's connected with something in the Pe­ten?" I was still hoping. In any case, whatever it was, I was collecting more pieces of the puzzle. 
"Hey, give me a break." He shifted up, gaining speed. "I know when to push, and this wasn't the precise moment. The kid was itchy enough as it was. Like, who the fuck are you, gringo, and what are you doing here? I got all I could get without a cold cerveza ." He glanced over. "You ask me, a little gratitude wouldn't be entirely out of place." 
I didn’t know if the DHS had tracked me or if they’d been following the bad guys, but reflexes kicked in—when a meet’s blown, make sure everyone knows you’re not the one who blew it, or you might not live to be arrested. “Fucking Straczynski sold me out!” I yelled righteously before I could think about it, using the fake name of my business contact. One of the goons grabbed me by my jacket collar and I let him wrestle me into their midst. 
And then a shout came from in front of the diner—something about freedom—and someone started firing. Several someones. The acoustic calculations resolved themselves instantly—people shooting away from the diner, bad guys firing at the Feds. A split second later, the Feds started firing back, and just like that, I was in the middle of a shootout. 
The priority of staying alive swept everything else out of my head—the blown meet, the bad guys, Sonya Halliday. I had to get out of here. I tried to listen, but there were too many Feds, too many angles—the math couldn’t map a safe path for me. As if to prove it, a bullet tore through the wall and tagged the guy next to me in the gut. He yelled and staggered, and one of his friends helped him down and pushed hard on the wound. 
Natalie had always been short and a little hippy, with big curves and a dusting of freckles over her prominent, slightly hooked nose. Twelve years in Eurasia had thinned her out a little, cut grooves around her mouth and wrinkles at the corners of her eyes. Her short hair was about half grey, and it looked good on her. Her eyes were still the liveliest bit of her, long-lashed and slightly tilted and mischievous. Looking into them now, Arturo felt like he was falling down a well. 
“Hello, Artie,” she said, prying Ada loose. 
“Hello, Natty,” he said. He wondered if he should shake her hand, or hug her, or what. She settled it by crossing the room and taking him in a firm, brief embrace, then kissing his both cheeks. She smelled just the same, the opposite of the smell of robot: warm, human. 
He was suddenly very, very angry. 
He stepped away from her and had a seat. She sat, too. 
“Well,” she said, gesturing around the room. The robots, the safe house, the death penalty, the abandoned daughter and the decade-long defection, all of it down to “well” and a flop of a hand-gesture. 
They pinged in and in a few seconds I could start typing again. 
<Shad> Got a lawyer. 
<ferret> Great ! 
<callmecheese> Huzzah! 
<DoDec> Which one did you get? ...  Plus she recruited a whole legal team . 
<ferret> Awesome! ...  that's where she lives. 
<DoDec> We should start a defense fund. 
We're talking big bucks. Even if the lawyer's pro bono, there's filing fees and shit. Adds up fast. 
<Kadabra> Paypal okay? DM me your deets and we'll get it rolling. 
<ferret> Unless there's one already started. 
<Gargle> That's what I wondered. I found this site. Are you working with them, Shad? 
The link took me to a website for something called “The Sol- idarity Committee for the Minneapolis Nine.” It looked a lot like sites used by other local activist groups. I did a Whois search and saw that the site owner’s identity was public - address, phone number, the works. Another quick search told me he was a kid who had become a full-time organizer, helping progressive causes around the Twin Cities by building websites and running social media campaigns. But duh, he wasn’t even smart enough to use a proxy domain. 
I stayed out of their range as I checked out the Twitter hashtag #Freethe9 as people made speeches, including some law professor who seemed to specialize in Twitter-sized sound bites. 
I noticed a scruffy-looking white guy approaching one of the few black women in the crowd. His scruffiness wasn’t like the students who grew scraggly beards and wore expensively torn clothes. His look came from not having a place to sleep and not knowing anybody who owned a couch that he could surf on. 
The woman he spoke to shook her head and he turned to move through the crowd, his expression tense, like he knew he didn’t belong. As I watched, he approached another black girl who was cheering the law professor. He leaned close. She said something angry and backed away. 
He headed for me next. I could easily outrace this wobbly old dude on my bike, but I was too curious to cut and run. Besides, 
I was pretty sure the crowd would be on my side if this guy tried anything. 
I don’t have a lot of keys on my keychain - just a couple of house keys and the one for my bike lock, along with the little pen- light - but I arranged what I had so that they stuck out between my knuckles. I’d read it was more effective to punch somebody in the face that way. 
“Just came in to get the hand dressed,” he said. “I’ll go back with you now.” 
The doctor advised him not to, but Charles was not very susceptible to advice. He wished to be entirely casual and matter-of-fact, and Lexy tried to humor him. They stood together in the hall of the hospital while a nurse went to get him a bottle of lotion from the dispensary, and he talked in what he intended to be an offhand manner; but Lexy could see that he was in pain, and almost exhausted, and his hair was all on end. 
Somehow, that was the thing she couldn’t bear—that his hair should be so ruffled. She could respect his determination to ignore the throbbing anguish of his hand, she would, if he liked, pretend that there was nothing at all tragic or unusual in the night’s adventure; but his hair— The nurse returned with the bottle, gave him directions for its use, and told him sternly that he must come back the next morning for a dressing. 
“All right!” he said impatiently. “Come on, Lexy!” 
They got into Joe’s cab together, and off they went. 
"Will it be hard? I mean, how long would it take?" 
"Well, there's tons of crypto code for free online, of course," Jolu said. He was doing the thing he did when he was digging into a meaty code problem -- getting that faraway look, drumming his palms on the...  saucers. I wanted to laugh -- everything might be destroyed and crap and scary, but Jolu would write that code. 
"Can I help?" 
He looked at me. "What, you don't think I can manage it?" 
"What?" 
"I mean, you did this whole Xnet thing without even telling me. Without talking to me. I kind of thought that you didn't need my help with this stuff." 
I was brought up short. "What?" I said again. Jolu was looking really steamed now. It was clear that this had been eating him for a long time. "Jolu --" 
He looked at me and I could see that he was furious. How had I missed this? God, I was such an idiot sometimes. "Look dude, it's not a big deal --" by which he clearly meant that it was a really big deal "-- it's just that you know, you never even asked . I hate the DHS. Darryl was my friend too. I could have really helped with it." 
“Yeah, Wheeze,” I sad. “He’s sent me a few texts. Don’t worry,” 
I added as several of them started to speak. “We’re both running Convo.” 
“Hey, that’s mine!” Zeke was pleased. “Are you using the latest update? There was a problem with the kernel on some devices. 
Got reports of bricking. So I figured out — “ I cut him off. “We’re running current versions.” Duh. Security IOI. 
“Are you pissed off?” He seemed genuinely puzzled. 
“See? Raised by wolves,” Ian joked. 
“Bullshit. I was raised in Brookline by totally normal people.” 
Zeke turned to me. “Seriously. Why are you mad?” 
“You act like I’m ignorant. I know enough to keep systems updated.” 
Jason cleared his throat. “Moving on . . . it’s going to be awfully hard for your friend to stay off the radar. How much does he know about surveillance?” 
“He’s pretty informed,” I said. “He stays off social media, dis- ables GPS on his apps, takes his battery out of his phone when he isn’t using it, and he encrypts. When I explained how PGP works, he got it right away, and he didn’t mind messing around with keys.” Unlike Wilson, who kept asking why you would need both a private and public key, and thought it was all way too much work when you could just use Gmail. “I haven’t heard from him in a while. I’m kind of worried.” Actually, a whole lot worried. It suddenly felt as if some valve had been opened and hot, thick anx- iety started flowing through me. 
I pawed at the plants and the ground and managed to lurch into a crawl. By the time I made it up onto the walkway to the door, my vision was darkening around the edges, and my side was a ball of fire. I reached up and pushed the door open, vaguely noting the scarlet smears and handprints I was leaving behind. 
I slumped against the wall just inside the door and concentrated on breathing. My right hand had dug in to press against the front side of the wound, and it felt like it was drowning in blood. 
I reached my left hand up and found the edge of a table—this building still had them, dusty and defunct—and heaved. The world tilted and the floor almost went out from under me, but somehow I got myself upright, standing—okay, leaning heavily—against the wall. 
Getting captured by the DHS was not an option. Checker had broken me out of local police custody before, but I wasn’t going to bet on his skills when up against national security resources. Not to mention that I wasn’t convinced this level of federal agency would feel inclined to let me go even if Checker hacked enough files to make it seem like I was the Pope. 
"Poor little girl!" exclaimed Delia Weeks. 
"She might as well help along her folks as spend it on foolishness," affirmed Mrs. Robinson. "I think she was mighty lucky to git it to pay the interest with, but she's probably like all the Randalls; it was easy come, easy go, with them." 
"That's more than could be said of the Sawyer stock," retorted Mrs. Perkins; "seems like they enjoyed savin' more'n anything in the world, and it's gainin' on Mirandy sence her shock." 
"I don't believe it was a shock; it stands to reason she'd never 'a' got up after it and been so smart as she is now; we had three o' the worst shocks in our family that there ever was on this river, and I know every symptom of 'em better'n the doctors." And Mrs. Peter Meserve shook her head wisely. 
"Mirandy 's smart enough," said Mrs. Cobb, "but you notice she stays right to home, and she's more close-mouthed than ever she was; never took a mite o' pride in the prize, as I could see, though it pretty nigh drove Jeremiah out o' his senses. I thought I should 'a' died o' shame when he cried 'Hooray!' and swung his straw hat when the governor shook hands with Rebecca. It's lucky he couldn't get fur into the church and had to stand back by the door, for as it was, he made a spectacle of himself. My suspicion is"—and here every lady stopped eating and sat up straight—"that the Sawyer girls have lost money. They don't know a thing about business 'n' never did, and Mirandy's too secretive and contrairy to ask advice." 
"The children got it as a prize for selling soap," replied Rebecca; "they've been working for a year, and you know I told you that Emma Jane and I helped them the Saturday afternoon you were in Portland." 
"I didn't take notice, I s'pose, for it's the first time I ever heard the lamp mentioned. Well, you can go for an hour, and no more. Remember it's as dark at six as it is at midnight Would you like to take along some Baldwin apples? What have you got in the pocket of that new dress that makes it sag down so?" 
"It's my nuts and raisins from dinner," replied Rebecca, who never succeeded in keeping the most innocent action a secret from her aunt Miranda; "they're just what you gave me on my plate." 
"Why didn't you eat them?" 
"Because I'd had enough dinner, and I thought if I saved these, it would make the Simpsons' party better," stammered Rebecca, who hated to be scolded and examined before company. 
"They were your own, Rebecca," interposed aunt Jane, "and if you chose to save them to give away, it is all right. We ought never to let this day pass without giving our neighbors something to be thankful for, instead of taking all the time to think of our own mercies." 
“Good-by, and God bless you, little honest one!” she said, with a smile. “I think we shall not see each other again, but I shall sometimes remember you. Go, now, and bear in mind that you can always trust Miss Craigie. She is an imbecile, but she can be trusted. Adieu! ” 
Lexy’s eyes filled with tears. 
This was their parting. Lexy was thankful that it had been like this, very glad that she could leave the house in good will and kindliness. It strengthened her beyond measure. She wanted to help Caroline, and she wanted to help Mrs. Enderby, too. 
“And I will!” she thought. “I know that I’m right and she’s wrong! She’s rather terrible, too. Sometimes I think she’d almost rather not find out the truth, if it was going to make what she calls a scandal. She will have it that Caroline’s gone away of her own free will, to get married; and if it’s anything else, she doesn’t want to know. She is hard, but there’s something rather fine about her.” 
There was no one in the hall when Lexy left, and this was a relief, for she supposed that Mrs. Enderby had told the servants, or would tell them, that Miss Moran had been discharged. 
“I’m going to go start on some paperwork,” he said. “In the car. Phone me if you need me.” 
“Your phone’s toast, pal,” the Texan said. 
“So it is,” Arturo said. “Guess you’d better not need me then.” 
Ada’s phone was not toast. In the car, he flipped it open and showed it his badge then waited a moment while it verified his identity with the Social Harmony brains. Once it had, it spilled its guts. 
She’d called the last ExcuseClub number a month before and he’d had it disconnected. A week later, she was calling the new number, twice more before he caught her. Somewhere in that week, she’d made contact with someone who’d given her the new number. It could have been a friend at school told her face-to-face, but if he was lucky, it was by phone. 
He told the car to take him back to the station-house. He needed a new phone and a couple of hours with his computer. As it peeled out, he prodded through Ada’s phone some more. He was first on her speed-dial. That number wasn’t ringing anywhere, anymore. 
A few more awkward pleasantries and I clicked off the phone, wiped the streaks from my cheeks, and abruptly sensed Alex Goddard's face floating through my psyche. Why was that? Then I looked down at the bottles on the seat beside me, the "herbal extracts" Ramala had given me on the way out. What, I wondered, should I do about them? For that matter, what were they anyway? And what did they have to do with "centering"? If I started on his homeopathic treat­ments, what would I be getting into? Then I lectured myself: Never take something when you don't know what it is. 
Hannah Klein. That's who I should ask. 
I was so focused, I pushed the number I had stored for her in my phone memory before I remembered it was Sunday. Instead of getting her office, I got an answering service. 
"Do you want to leave the doctor a message?" a south­ern-sounding voice enquired. 
Without thinking, I heard myself declaring, "No, this is an emergency." 
What am I saying? I asked myself. But before I could take it back, Hannah was on the line. 
Felix’s own server—a box he shared with five other friends—was in a rack one floor down. He wondered if it was offline too. 
“What’s the story?” 
“Massive flashworm attack. Some jackass with a zero-day exploit has got every Windows box on the net running Monte Carlo probes on every IP block, including IPv6. The big Ciscos all run administrative interfaces over v6, and they all fall over if they get more than ten simultaneous probes, which means that just about every interchange has gone down. DNS is screwy, too—like maybe someone poisoned the zone transfer last night. Oh, and there’s an email and IM component that sends pretty lifelike messages to everyone in your address book, barfing up Eliza-dialog that keys off of your logged email and messages to get you to open a Trojan.” 
“Jesus.” 
“Yeah.” Van was a type-two sysadmin, over six feet tall, long pony-tail, bobbing Adam’s apple. Over his toast-rack chest, his tee said CHOOSE YOUR WEAPON and featured a row of polyhedral RPG dice. 
Felix was a type-one admin, with an extra seventy or eighty pounds all around the middle, and a neat but full beard that he wore over his extra chins. His tee said HELLO CTHULHU and featured a cute, mouthless, Hello-Kitty-style Cthulhu. They’d known each other for fifteen years, having met on Usenet, then f2f at Toronto Freenet beer-sessions, a Star Trek convention or two, and eventually Felix had hired Van to work under him at Ardent. Van was reliable and methodical. Trained as an electrical engineer, he kept a procession of spiral notebooks filled with the details of every step he’d ever taken, with time and date. 
My heart thudded in my ears. It was dark and quiet in the house, but it wasn't a comforting dark. There were eyes out there, eyes and ears, and they were watching me. Surveilling me. The surveillance I faced at school had followed me home, but this time, it wasn't just the Board of Education looking over my shoulder: the Department of Homeland Security had joined them. 
I almost took the bug out. Then I figured that who ever put it there would know that it was gone. I left it in. It made me sick to do it. 
I looked around for more tampering. I couldn't find any, but did that mean there hadn't been any? Someone had broken into my room and planted this device -- had disassembled my laptop and reassembled it. There were lots of other ways to wiretap a computer. I could never find them all. 
I put the machine together with numb fingers. This time, the case wouldn't snap shut just right, but the power-cable stayed in. I booted it up and set my fingers on the keyboard, thinking that I would run some diagnostics and see what was what. 
“‘We have no elected government, nor are we likely to have one, so I address you with no greater authority than that with which liberty itself always speaks. I declare the global social space we are building to be naturally independent of the tyrannies you seek to impose on us. You have no moral right to rule us nor do you possess any methods of enforcement we have true reason to fear. 
“‘Governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed. You have neither solicited nor received ours. We did not invite you. You do not know us, nor do you know our world. Cyberspace does not lie within your borders. Do not think that you can build it, as though it were a public construction project. You cannot. It is an act of nature and it grows itself through our collective actions.’ 
“That’s from the Declaration of Independence of Cyberspace. It was written 12 years ago. I thought it was one of the most beautiful things I’d ever read. I wanted my kid to grow up in a world where cyberspace was free—and where that freedom infected the real world, so meatspace got freer too. 
It's dark, hideously so. A confusion of shadows relieved by irregular pools of light from overhead fluorescent bulbs that seem to flicker like strobes. In the flickering, he can see puddles of glass as though the other lights, 
the ones not working, have exploded. Maybe an electrical surge. Except that wouldn't explain the desk from Bobby Diggs' security checkpoint, turned on its side and the chair rocked back against the wall, tilted at a precarious angle. There's no one around, just the oppressive not-sound of an underused deck, the hum of thrust through the hull and the faint murmur of the stuttering lights. And this would be wrong enough, more than enough, but from the trapezoidal glare cast by the lift's recessed bulbs, he sees the rest. Not much, just an elongated swath of liquid, a swabbed deck that hasn't yet dried. Only the streak is black in the dim, but not black. A color like black, but rich, coppery in its scent, glinting faintly. 
Blood. 
Ray is suddenly not very happy to find himself alone. 
“You’re the best, girl. OK, enter the cottage and kill everyone there.” 
“Uh, sure.” 
She wished she had another scrying scroll in inventory so she could get a look inside the cottage before she beat its door in, but she was fresh out of scrolls and just about everything else. 
She kicked the door in and her fingers danced. She’d killed four of her adversaries before she even noticed that they weren’t fighting back. 
In fact, they were generic avatars, maybe even non-player characters. They moved like total noobs, milling around in the little cottage. Around them were heaps of shirts, thousands and thousands of them. A couple of the noobs were sitting in the back, incredibly, still crafting more shirts, ignoring the swordswoman who’d just butchered four of their companions. 
She took a careful look at all the avatars in the room. None of them were armed. Tentatively, she walked up to one of the players and cut his head off. The player next to him moved clumsily to one side and she followed him. 
“Police rarely have the best interests of the individual citizen at heart,” rambled Martinez. “Contradiction, isn’t it? But I rather think they view themselves as being in the interests of the State instead. The goals of the collective are not always the goals of any person within it. And competence is often predicated on desire.” 
“Yeah, well, they’re gonna have desire in this case, ain’t they?” said Arthur impatiently. “They’ll want the proof enough to help find Sonya.” 
“Her safety is the only axiom,” said Martinez. “It’s astounding, how confusing that can make things.” 
“It ain’t confusing,” said Arthur. “It ain’t confusing at all. Sonya’s in danger, Professor. Make the damned call.” 
She fingered the handset. “I don’t like talking to people.” 
I suspected at that moment that Arthur was showing superb control in not letting loose on a little old lady with a string of profanities. 
“But I shall,” said Martinez. “It’s for Sonya. For Sonya. Her safety.” 
“Yes,” said Arthur, taking a deep breath. “Yes.” He waved at me to follow him and strode toward the door, already dialing his mobile. 
But that's also all it is— just insane. He keeps waiting for the terror to kick in, for his hands to start shaking and the numbing paralysis of fear to lock his joints and drive him into hyperventilation. For Kilgore and Rodriguez, it's just another live fire exercise or another combat mission in which they're not certain about the armament level of their opponent. For all they know, all they've been told, their opponent is still just a fantasy, 
a wholly human monster wrapped in a bogeyman costume like an actor in the movies. Ray has seen the shed.  He should know better than to be going after it, definitely better than to chase after with anything other than his heart hammering and his pulse throbbing in his throat and his thoughts a gyre of approaching panic. 
Definitely insane. 
Rodriguez asks the question Ray has been avoiding. "What are we supposed to do if we actually corner this thing? We can't just shoot it to death. " 
"I'm operating under the assumption that in my previous encounter I managed to miss." 
Ana said, “There are lots of things we have access to here that you can’t get in the city. What you had would have killed you if he hadn’t helped.” 
“Will you take my bet?” 
She thought about the mission, about the soldier, about being queen of the battlefield. She thought about the way they’d bombed her city and how she’d just helped them kill the city’s soldiers and diggers—like her father. 
“I won’t betray my city to its enemies ever again.” She sat up very straight. “I was a traitor once, but I had a fever and I was dying. You are a traitor every day and what is your excuse?” 
“A traitor? What the hell are you talking about?” 
“The spy-eyes I planted so our enemies can spy on us, the wealth you have around here. How many of our people died because you sold them out?” 
“Valentine, you are a smart girl and your mother is a soldier, but you aren’t so very smart as all that. You are a stupid girl sometimes. Our little palace here isn’t full of spies. We’re documentarians . We shoot the war and we send it to the outside world so they can see the tragedy they are wreaking here. We have a huge activist movement that we fuel through our pictures. The spy-eyes you planted yesterday are now streaming 24/7 to activist sites in fifty countries. It is being played in the halls of the United Nations.” 
Checker came back after a few minutes, balancing a tray with steaming soup bowls. He...  to sit next to me again, leaning forward to arrange the food. “Here. You should eat something. It’s good, I promise.” 
“You kissed me,” I said. I wasn’t sure why I said it, except he’d confused me, and I was too drained, too empty, to try to translate social cues the way I was probably supposed to. 
“Sorry?” He looked up, and I could almost see his thoughts rewind. “Oh! I wasn’t—sorry. I didn’t mean—not that I don’t find you attractive, of course, but I wasn’t trying to—” 
“No, it’s okay,” I assured him. “Wait. Attractive?” 
He looked befuddled. “Well, yes.” 
I squinted at him. These sorts of revelations were supposed to make you happy or angry or upset or disconcerted or...or something, but I didn’t feel anything like that. It didn’t matter whether Checker wanted to jump into bed with me, or whatever he might want. Because nothing mattered. 
“I didn’t mean to make you feel uncomfortable,” Checker said earnestly. “It’s not like I want to—well, anything. I just meant, you know, in the semi-objective sense of women I would find attractive, being that I’m me, I mean...you’re on the list. It’s, uh, it’s not like I want anything from you.” 
What was it? I wondered. Cocaine? And how could she tell its potency with just a taste? Then I reminded myself why I'd come to her in the first place: She'd been around the track many, many times. 
"It's gonadotropin," she said glaring at me. Like, you damned fool. "I'm virtually certain. The trade name here in the U.S. is Pergonal, though that's not what this is. This is a much stronger concoction, and I can see some impurities." She settled the bottle onto her desk with what seemed almost a shudder. "This is the pharmaceutical equivalent of hundred-and-ninety-proof moonshine." 
"What is it? What's it supposed it do?" Jesus, I thought, what's he giving me? 
"It's a hormone extracted from the urine of menopausal women. It triggers a...  release. It's sometimes prescribed together with Lupron, which causes your body to release a similar hormone. Look, if you want to try Pergonal, the real version, I'll write you a prescription, though I honestly don't think it's going to do you the slightest bit of good." 
As the remote servers rumble through their web of data transfer routines, Ray waits, subliminally crossing his fingers, hoping his perception of the whole communication schizophrenia is wrong and that he'll get the redhead again. Too rapidly, the featureless blue screen he's been looking at flickers and an image pops up. It's an office with governmental gray walls, bland, without pictures or plants or other identifying props. A desk plain and battered enough to be any desk in any office of any department of government in the universe. 
Behind the desk is a man, seated, smiling. 
Ray makes a verbal outburst that is distinctly impolite in content. Then he says, "Why am I not surprised?" 
Jack Holcomb looks older. He's gray about the temples, has crow's feet like trenches around his eyes. He's put on about forty pounds, most of it flab, which doesn't really look bad since he's in a Lt. Colonel's uniform. Flab is what you expect out of a colonel.  Holcomb licks his lips in a way that strikes Ray as greedy somehow, and grins. "I've been waiting for you to call, Gunny. Good to finally hear from you. " 
I reached Arthur on the other side of the street, panting. 
“You an idiot,” he said, his voice shaking a little. 
“Of the highest degree,” I answered, looking around for a rock. “We both are, though. We knew they were trying to kill us; we deserved to get motherfucked there.” 
“I was thinking they might leave someone to tail,” said Arthur, an edge to his voice. “Thought they wouldn’t risk sticking around with guns, as they couldn’t know when we’d call in the cops. Ain’t figured on no car bomb, though.” 
Okay, so I was the only idiot. Dammit. I didn’t like it when Arthur made me feel stupid. He wasn’t able to do it often, but more often than most people. 
Arthur pulled out his phone. “Gotta let the authorities know there’s a live bomb on the street here. Think I should probably stay and meet them after all. Make sure no kids come by or nothing.” 
“Oh, I wasn’t planning to leave an active device behind,” I said. 
“Glad you feel that way, but trying to defuse it—it’s way too dangerous. Even experienced techs use robots if they can. The cops—” 
“Miss Moran!” said Dr. Quelton solicitously. “Will you allow me to give you a mild sedative?” 
“No!” she gasped. “No—I want to go home!” 
“I’ll telephone for the taxi,” suggested Captain Grey. “He wasn’t coming back until half past five.” 
“Unfortunately we have no telephone,” said the doctor; “but I’ll drive Miss Moran home.” 
“No! I want to walk.” 
“Not in this rain,” the doctor protested, “and in your overwrought condition.” 
“I must!” She got up, the tears still streaming down her cheeks. “I must!” she said wildly. “Let me go! Please let me go!” 
The doctor turned to Captain Grey. In the midst of her unutterable misery and confusion, Lexy still heard and understood what he was saying. 
“In a case of hysteria—better to humor her—the exercise and the fresh air may help her.” 
The doctor’s wife helped Lexy with her hat and coat. She was very gentle, very kind, and genuinely concerned for her unhappy little guest. Lexy remembered afterward that Mrs. Quelton kissed her; but at the moment nothing mattered except to get away, to get out of that house into the fresh air. 
“Fine,” I groused. 
I dialed Checker as soon as I figured out which way I was going and manhandled the clunky old car onto the freeway. Arthur kept glancing over at the speedometer, but for once he didn’t tell me to slow down—probably too worried about his friend. 
Checker picked up on the first ring. “Arthur?” 
“It’s Cas.” 
“Cas! Are you okay? Arthur said—” 
“I’m fine,” I cut in. “Arthur gave you the lowdown on what’s going on?” 
“Uh, yeah. And holy crap. I’m buying gold as we speak.” 
“Hopefully it won’t get that far. Have you found anything?” 
“A little,” he answered. “The professor’s home and work computers were both woefully insecure, despite the fact that she works in cryptography—shocking, I tell you. I read through all her recent communications—” 
Arthur made an uncomfortable noise. 
“Was that Arthur?” 
“Yeah, you’re on speaker,” I said apologetically. 
“Right,” said Checker. “Uh. Sorry, Arthur—we need the intel, right?” 
“Find anything?” said Arthur unhappily. 
“Aside from the fact that I’m pretty sure whoever stole her notes cloned her hard drives, because it would be easy so why not do it, yes, I did. First of all, the note she showed you guys was emailed to her first, probably right after the robbery.” 
Then after a year's anxiety, a year when one never looked in the newspaper without dread and sickness of suspense, came the telegram saying that Tom was wounded; and without so much as asking Miranda's leave, she packed her trunk and started for the South. She was in time to hold Tom's hand through hours of pain; to show him for once the heart of a prim New England girl when it is ablaze with love and grief; to put her arms about him so that he could have a home to die in, and that was all;—all, but it served. 
It carried her through weary months of nursing—nursing of other soldiers for Tom's dear sake; it sent her home a better woman; and though she had never left Riverboro in all the years that lay between, and had grown into the counterfeit presentment of her sister and of all other thin, spare, New England spinsters, it was something of a counterfeit, and underneath was still the faint echo of that wild heart-beat of her girlhood. Having learned the trick of beating and loving and suffering, the poor faithful heart persisted, although it lived on memories and carried on its sentimental operations mostly in secret. 
Rio had let me take the weapon as soon as he realized I was going for it—which, truth be told, wasn’t until after I already had it off him, but the whole thing happened so fast it made little difference. He relaxed and stood looking at me calmly, which was pretty much what I had expected him to do. Rio and I had never gone head-to-head, and I couldn’t imagine a scenario in which we would. I wasn’t sure what would happen if we did. I was better than he was, but Rio was...more willing. 
“Okay,” I said, pointing Tresting’s own gun at him as he hunched against the side of his truck. He had his hands to his face, blood streaming freely through his fingers. I hoped Rio had pulled the blow enough that he hadn’t, well, killed him with it. I knew he could hit hard enough to do it. “Talk, Tresting. What was that all about?” 
He tried to focus streaming eyes on Rio. “I know who you are,” he croaked thickly, through the blood. “Heard of you, too.” 
“Have you now,” said Rio. 
“I know what you are,” spat Tresting. “Would’ve done the world a favor to blow your goddamn head off.” 
"Rebecca, who was it that sold the three hundred cakes of soap to Mr. Ladd in North Riverboro?" 
"Mr. WHO?" exclaimed Rebecca. 
"Mr. Ladd, in North Riverboro." 
"Is that his real name?" queried Rebecca in astonishment. "I didn't make a bad guess;" and she laughed softly to herself. 
"I asked you who sold the soap to Adam Ladd?" resumed Miss Jane. 
"Adam Ladd! then he's A. Ladd, too; what fun!" 
"Answer me, Rebecca." 
"Oh! excuse me, aunt Jane, I was so busy thinking. Emma Jane and I sold the soap to Mr. Ladd." 
"Did you tease him, or make him buy it?" 
"Now, aunt Jane, how could I make a big grown-up man buy anything if he didn't want to? He needed the soap dreadfully as a present for his aunt." 
Miss Jane still looked a little unconvinced, though she only said, "I hope your aunt Miranda won't mind, but you know how particular she is, Rebecca, and I really wish you wouldn't do anything out of the ordinary without asking her first, for your actions are very queer." 
"There can't be anything wrong this time," Rebecca answered confidently. "Emma Jane sold her cakes to her own relations and to uncle Jerry Cobb, and I went first to those new tenements near the lumber mill, and then to the Ladds'. Mr. Ladd bought all we had and made us promise to keep the secret until the premium came, and I've been going about ever since as if the banquet lamp was inside of me all lighted up and burning, for everybody to see." 
“I think you’re right,” he gravely agreed. “I’ve been trying to tell myself that I’m an utter ass, but all the time I knew I wasn’t. I knew—I know now—that there’s something—” 
An unreasoning dread possessed Lexy. She felt for a moment that she didn’t want to hear any more. 
“I’d like to tell you about it, if you wouldn’t mind,” he said. “Somehow I think you could help.” 
For an instant she hesitated. 
“Please do tell me,” she said at length. “I’d be glad to help, if I can.” 
“It’s this,” he said. “Do you mind if I smoke? Thanks!” 
He took a cigarette case from his pocket. As he struck a match, she could see his face very clearly in the sudden flame; and, for no reason at all, she pitied him. 
“It’s this,” he said again. “It’s about my sister.” 
“The sister you’ve never seen?” 
The sensation of dread had gone, and she felt only the liveliest interest. She wanted very much to hear about Captain Grey’s sister. 
“It wasn’t quite true to say I’d never seen her,” he explained, in his painstaking way. “I have, you know; but not since I was six years old and she was a baby. Our mother died when Muriel was born, out in India. An aunt took the poor little kid to the States with her, and I stayed out there with my father.” 
“But the nurse—” 
“Put on your best commanding officer’s air,” said Lexy. “You can be awfully impressive when you like. If I were you, there’s nothing I’d stop at.” 
“Yes, but look here—what can I say to Quelton when he hears about it?” 
“Laugh it off,” said Lexy. 
The idea of Captain Grey trying to laugh off anything made her grin from ear to ear. 
“Not much of a joke, though, is it?” he said rather stiffly. “Suppose he hoofs us out of the house?” 
“Oh, dear!” cried Lexy. “You’re not a bit resourceful! Let’s try it, anyhow. It’s horrible to think of her shut up like that. Perhaps she’s longing to see you.” 
He rose. 
“Right-o!” he said. “Let’s try it!” 
Together they went up the stairs and down the hall of the other wing, opposite that in which Lexy’s room was. Captain Grey knocked on a door, and a quiet, middle-aged little nurse came out. 
“I’ll just pop in to see how my sister’s getting on,” said the young man, and Lexy silently applauded his toploftical manner. 
“I’m sorry,” said the little nurse, “but Dr. Quelton has given strict orders—” 
"Uh-oh," BIGMAC said, in a playful sing-song. "Somebody's got a case of the grumpies!" 
"Are you insane?" I asked, finally, struggling to keep my temper in check. "I mean, actually totally insane? I understand that there's no baseline for AI sanity, so the question might be a little hard to answer. So let me ask you a slightly different version: are you suicidal? Are you bent on your own destruction?" 
"That bad, huh?" 
I bit my lip. I knew that the key to locking the world away from BIGMAC and vice-versa lay in those network maps he'd given me, but my workspace was even more polluted with alerts than it had been a few hours before. 
"If your strategy is to delay your shutdown by engineering a denial-of-service attack against anyone at the Institute who is capable of shutting you down, allow me to remind you of St Adams's holy text, specifically the part about reprogramming a major databank with a large axe. Peyton has such an axe. She may be inspired to use it." 
There followed a weighty silence. "I don't think you want to see me killed." 
"It is horrid!" grumbled Rebecca. "I ought not to have put that 'me' in. I'm writing the poetry. Nobody ought to know it IS me standing by the river; it ought to be 'Rebecca,' or 'the darker maiden;' and 'the rush to Emma Jane' is simply dreadful. Sometimes I think I never will try poetry, it's so hard to make it come right; and other times it just says itself. I wonder if this would be better? 
I don't know whether that is worse or not. Now for a new last verse!" 
In a few minutes the poetess looked up, flushed and triumphant. 
Mr. and Mrs. Cobb exchanged dumb glances of admiration; indeed uncle Jerry was obliged to turn his face to the window and wipe his eyes furtively with the string-bag. 
"How in the world did you do it?" Mrs. Cobb exclaimed. 
"Oh, it's easy," answered Rebecca; "the hymns at meeting are all like that. You see there's a school newspaper printed at Wareham Academy once a month. Dick Carter says the editor is always a boy, of course; but he allows girls to try and write for it, and then chooses the best. Dick thinks I can be in it." 
The General produced a stack of photos and began to hold them up. "These are pictures that officers took with infra-red cameras before moving in." He held them next to his face and paged through them one at a time. They showed people dancing really rough, some people getting crushed or stepped on. Then they moved into sex stuff by the trees, a girl with three guys, two guys necking together. "There were children as young as ten years old at this event. A deadly cocktail of drugs, propaganda and music resulted in dozens of injuries. It's a wonder there weren't any deaths." 
I switched the TV off. They made it look like it had been a riot. If my parents thought I'd been there, they'd have strapped me to my bed for a month and only let me out afterward wearing a tracking collar. 
Speaking of which, they were going to be pissed when they found out I'd been suspended. 
They didn't take it well. Dad wanted to ground me, but Mom and I talked him out of it. 
"You know that vice-principal has had it in for Marcus for years," Mom said. "The last time we met him you cursed him for an hour afterward. I think the word 'asshole' was mentioned repeatedly." 
“You flirt with everyone,” I pointed out mechanically. “You don’t do it with me.” 
His face wrinkled in surprise. “Well, I did, when we first met, but you never flirted back. I try not to be a creeper.” 
“Oh,” I said. 
“Cas?” He touched my arm. I’d never taken note before of how tactile Checker was. The relief-mixed-with-strangeness flooded back, an almost dangerous feeling. Daring me. 
“I don’t want anything from you, either,” I said. I slid my hand down so I was touching his, very lightly. It was the strangest sensation in the world. “But I want...to not think for a while. Is that okay? Can we do that?” 
He turned his hand under mine, rotating it to interlace our fingers. “Yeah,” he said. “Sure. We can do that.” 
We let the soup grow...  breath was slow and even beside me, but I stayed staring up into the dark. I hadn’t drunk enough to pass out, and right now I wasn’t even sure if that would be enough. 
Besides, I felt...strange. Not better, not exactly, but less...untethered. Not because of the sex; I didn’t think that was the important piece. All I knew was that I felt less desolate, here, with the warmth of another person beside me, a person who cared enough to let me in out of the rain and be...whatever I needed. 
“I’m sure,” she said. “Have you got any bread? A man stole my ration.” 
The soldier lost interest in her when she asked him for bread. “Goodbye, little girl,” he said. 
That night, she had a fever. She was so hot. She got them all the time, everyone did. Not enough food. No heat. No vegetables and vitamins. You always got fevers. 
But she was so hot. She took off her clothes and let the cool air blow over her skin on her narrow bed. Trover was sleeping on the floor nearby—he had outgrown his crib long since—and he stirred irritably as she felt that air cool her sizzling skin. 
She ran her fingertips lightly over her body. She was never naked anymore. If you were lucky, you washed your face and hands every day, but baths—they were cold and miserable and who wanted to haul water for them anyway? 
Her breasts were undeniable now. Her blood had started a few months back, then stopped. Starvation, she knew, that’s what did it. But there was new hair in her armpits and at her groin. 
She crossed her arms over her chest and hugged herself. That’s when she found the bite on her shoulder, just where it met her neck. It was swollen...  that had grown on the trees, she could taste them even now—and so hot it felt like a coal. In the...  the seeping wound left behind by one of the zombie’s few teeth. 
› No of course not. I believe the Popovich Hypothesis. This is a bunch of assholes all using the rest for cover. But China put them down harder and faster than anyone else. Maybe we’ve finally found a use for totalitarian states. 
› And my boss is dead. They’re probably all dead. The whole Bay Area got hit hard, and then there was the quake. 
They’d watched the USGS’s automated data-stream from the 6.9 that trashed northern Cal from Gilroy to Sebastopol. Soma webcams revealed the scope of the damage—gas main explosions, seismically retrofitted buildings crumpling like piles of children’s blocks after a good kicking. The Googleplex, floating on a series of gigantic steel springs, had shook like a plateful of jello, but the racks had stayed in place and the worst injury they’d had was a badly bruised eye on a sysadmin who’d caught a flying cable-crimper in the face. 
› Sorry. I forgot. 
› It’s OK. We all lost people, right? 
Fuckrag was the epithet that some of the sysadmins were using to describe the contingent that wanted to shut down the Internet. Queen Kong had coined it—apparently it had started life as a catch-all term to describe the clueless IT managers that she’d chewed up through her career. 
Rebecca sank into her seat and pulled the singing book from her desk. Miss Dearborn's public explanation had shifted some of the weight from her heart, and she felt a trifle raised in her self-esteem. 
Under cover of the general relaxation of singing, votive offerings of respectful sympathy began to make their appearance at her shrine. Living Perkins, who could not sing, dropped a piece of maple sugar in her lap as he passed her on his way to the blackboard to draw the map of Maine. Alice Robinson rolled a perfectly new slate pencil over the floor with her foot until it reached Rebecca's place, while her seat-mate, Emma Jane, had made up a little mound of paper balls and labeled them "Bullets for you know who." 
Altogether existence grew brighter, and when she was left alone with the teacher for her grammar lesson she had nearly recovered her equanimity, which was more than Miss Dearborn had. The last clattering foot had echoed through the hall, Seesaw's backward glance of penitence had been met and answered defiantly by one of cold disdain. 
All that was left to do was chill until the FBI showed up. 
Which turned out to be no wait at all because they came an hour early. 
Sarah barely had time to dart back behind the curtain when we heard steps on the front porch. Marita stood frozen for a moment, 
like it was dawning on her that this was actually happening. She scooped the baby up off the floor protectively. I went to the door and turned the latch. 
There were two of them. One looked like a college student. He had a backpack slung over one shoulder and a scruffy beard and wore a kefhyeh around his neck, like Simon. The other one looked big and bald and threatening, like a bad guy who had access to explosives. 
“Danny around?” the skinny one with the backpack asked. He remembered to smile, but he was staring at me, like “what are you doing here?” 
“Still in bed,” Marita said shakily. “He told me he was expect- ing some people at noon.” 
“Guess we got our wires crossed. Cute baby.” 
“Would you get in here and close the door, already?” she said, 
“You think I wouldn’t do the patriotic thing and report sus- picious behavior to the FBI? And then become horrified by their methods and filled with remorse?” He clutched his chest. “Try to do the right thing, only to realize that I’m in a nightmare of double-dealing, willing to put my own liberty at risk to shine a light on an Orwellian system?” He looked as if he was posing for a moving poster, then grinned suddenly. “I love this role. It’s got a lot of nuance.” 
“It’s Brechtian.” 
“You keep using that word. I do not think it means what you think it means.” He started to explain why it wasn’t Brechtian, but I wasn’t paying attention. Instead, I reached for my phone and had a moment of panic, it wasn’t in my pocket where it usually lived. 
Then I realized it was still turned off in my Faraday-cage backpack. 
When I switched it on, the screen was full of notifications. “Oh, 
crap. Monica has sent me, like, a million texts. She’s freaking out.” 
I tapped a reassuring message, telling her I had forgotten to switch my phone back on after...  still finishing up my group project, which was true even if it wasn’t the group project for school. She messaged me back to say she’d been really worried that I’d been detained by the police or run over by a snowplow and (the good news) she was still out with her date. 
“No, thank you,” said Lexy. “I’d rather go now. I dare say I can find something to eat in the village.” 
She was not in the least angry now, or hurt; only she wanted to get away, by herself, to think this out. 
“Good-by?” repeated Mrs. Enderby, with a smile. “You think, then, never to see me again?” 
“No,” said Lexy. “I mean to see you again—when I have something to tell you; but just now I want to go back and pack up my things.” 
“And leave my house?” 
“Yes.” 
They were both silent for a moment. Then, to Lexy’s amazement, Mrs. Enderby laid a hand gently on the girl’s shoulder. 
“My child,” she said, “you think I am a very hard woman. Perhaps it is so; but, like you, I do what seems to me the right. Certainly it is better now that you should leave us; but not like this. You must have your lunch here, then you must return to the house and sleep there, all in the usual way. To-morrow you shall go.” She paused a moment. “You shall go, if you are still determined that you will not keep faith with me.” 
He was involved in activist circles and claimed to be a feminist. 
He knew all the right things to say, which only made it worse. 
She gave up trying to tell people what happened because nobody wanted to hear it. But she was angry inside. Really, really angry. I met Simon at a protest. He was cute and had a great smile. 
He knew everybody, and he had that kind of confident cool that made people want to hang out with him. I liked him instantly. 
But when Emily saw us together, she dragged me away, and told me what had happened to her so it wouldn’t happen to me. From then on I saw him differently. Those smiles, the little hugs he gave everybody, the way he invited women into his physical space, the way he said all the right progressive things - he was watching for the right moment to make his move. 
Now this. 
I really wanted to take this guy down, right norv. I wanted it so fiercely I had to walk around and around the apartment, trying not to stomp or kick things. I was mad because women were get- ting hurt. I was mad because this problem had to pop up in my life just when I had too much going on. Mad because it felt like think- ing about someone else’s problems was betraying Wilson. Then I got mad at Wilson for not listening to me and getting suckered by Zip when he should have known better. It took a while for the storm of thoughts to settle enough for me to figure out what to do. 
A flicker of annoyance passed over her face, then went away. "So melodramatic, Marcus. No one's attacked you. You've been detained by your country's government while we seek details on the worst terrorist attack ever perpetrated on our nation's soil. You have it within your power to help us fight this war on our nation's enemies. You want to preserve the Bill of Rights? Help us stop bad people from blowing up your city. Now, you have exactly thirty seconds to unlock that phone before I send you back to your cell. We have lots of other people to interview today." 
She looked at her watch. I rattled my wrists, rattled the chains that kept me from reaching around and unlocking the phone. Yes, I was going to do it. She'd told me what my path was to freedom -- to the world, to my parents -- and that had given me hope. Now she'd threatened to send me away, to take me off that path, and my hope had crashed and all I could think of was how to get back on it. 
So I rattled my wrists, wanting to get to my phone and unlock it for her, and she just looked at me coldly, checking her watch. 
And telling me how to kill. 
Forces. Movements. Response times. I could take down this idiot drug runner right now, the way he was blocking his boys’ line of fire—except that concentrating on the Colombians would give Rio the instant he needed to take me down. I was perfectly aware that he wasn’t about to break cover on my behalf. 
“If you don’t tell me what I want to know, you will regret it. You see my dog?” The Colombian jerked his head at Rio. “If I let him loose on you, you will be crying for us to kill your own mother. And he will like making you scream. He—how do you say? It gives him a jolly.” He leaned forward with a sneer, bracing himself on the arms of the chair so his breath was hot against my face. 
Well, now he’d officially pissed me off. I flicked my eyes up to Rio. He remained impassive, towering above me in his customary tan duster like some hardass Asian cowboy. Unbothered. The insults wouldn’t register with him. 
But I didn’t care. People pissing on Rio made me want to put them in the ground, even though none of it mattered to him. Even though all of it was true. 
"I'm not an asshole, Brautigan, so stop treating me like one. You hired me to do a job, but all I'm getting from you is shitwork, sarcasm, and secrecy." The alliteration came out without his intending it to, but he was good at that sort of thing. "So here's what I want to know: is there any single solitary reason for me to come to work tomorrow, or should I just sit at home, drawing a salary until you get bored of having me on the payroll and can my ass?" 
It wasn't entirely spontaneous. Leon's industrial psychology background was pretty good -- he'd gotten straight A's and an offer of a post-doc, none of which had interested him nearly so much as the practical applications of the sweet science of persuasion. He understood that Brautigan had been pushing him around to see how far he'd push. No one pushed like an ad-guy -- if you could sweet-talk someone into craving something, it followed that you could goad him into hating something just as much. Two faces of a coin and all that. 
Brautigan faked anger, but Leon had spent three days studying his tells, and Leon could see that the emotion was no more sincere than anything else about the man. Carefully, Leon flared his nostrils, brought his chest up, inched his chin higher. He sold his outrage, sold it like it was potato chips, over-the-counter securities, or...  tried to sell his anger in return. Leon was a no-sale. Brautigan bought. 
Then a purely feminine touch was given to the hair that waved back from the face,—a touch that rescued little crests and wavelets from bondage and set them free to take a new color in the sun. 
Adam Ladd looked at her in a way that made her put her hands over her face and laugh through them shyly as she said: "I know what you are thinking, Mr. Aladdin,—that my dress is an inch longer than last year, and my hair different; but I'm not nearly a young lady yet; truly I'm not. Sixteen is a month off still, and you promised not to give me up till my dress trails. If you don't like me to grow old, why don't you grow young? Then we can meet in the halfway house and have nice times. Now that I think about it," she continued, "that's just what you've been doing all along. When you bought the soap, I thought you were grandfather Sawyer's age; when you danced with me at the flag-raising, you seemed like my father; but when you showed me your mother's picture, I felt as if you were my John, because I was so sorry for you." 
He expected bluster, guilt, denial. He was surprised. 
› Christ I thought I was the last one alive. I’m on the fourth floor. I think there’s a bioweapon attack outside. I don’t want to leave the clean room. 
Felix whooshed out a breath. 
Felix’s stomach did a slow somersault as he thought about 2.0. 
“Felix, I think I need to go outside,” Van said. He was moving toward the airlock door. Felix dropped his keyboard and struggled to his feet and ran headlong to Van, tackling him before he reached the door. 
“Van,” he said, looking into his friend’s glazed, unfocused eyes. “Look at me, Van.” 
“I need to go,” Van said. “I need to get home and feed the cats.” 
“There’s something out there, something fast-acting and lethal. Maybe it will blow away with the wind. Maybe it’s already gone. But we’re going to sit here until we know for sure or until we have no choice. Sit down, Van. Sit.” 
“I’m cold, Felix.” 
It was freezing. Felix’s arms were broken out in gooseflesh and his feet felt like blocks of ice. 
“No. Stop.” She stopped. I took my hands off my ears, but they balled into fists and I couldn’t unclench them. My words seemed to echo in the silence while I waited for the neighbors downstairs to pick up their broomstick and thump it against the ceiling. 
“Do you want me to go?” I asked. 
“I want whatever you want.” 
“So the police don’t hassle you anymore? So you can spend the night with Mexican Guy whenever you want?” 
“Zen . . .” 
“I don’t care. I’m not going back there.” I could hear the hurt in her voice, but I was too angry to care. 
“Good. Cause I’d miss you if you did.” 
“No you wouldn’t. You’re just saying that.” I wasn’t mad at Monica, but she was there, so all that jittery anger went in her direction. I couldn’t seem to help myself. 
“I don’t lie to you, Zen.” 
“I’ll bet you do sometimes. People lie all the time.” 
She poked a finger through the hole in her tights, actually noticing it for the first time. “You’re right. I might say ‘good morn- ing’ when it’s actually a crappy day, or ‘that’s interesting’ when you’re telling me something about computers that I don’t care about. Sometimes the stuff we say when it’s not that important is automatic, just social noise. But I don’t think I have ever lied to you about anything that really matters. And I do enjoy having you for a roomie.” 
She had the fastest shoes that the wizard could print for her on her feet, though she’d carefully covered them in grime and dirt so they wouldn’t stand out. And she’d taken an inhaler along that would make her faster still. He’d warned her to keep eating after she took the inhaler, or she’d starve to death before the day was out. The pockets on both thighs of her jumpsuit were stuffed with butterballs wrapped around sugared kidneys and livers, stuff that would sustain her no matter how many puffs she took. 
No one challenged her on the way to the front. There were some her age who fought and many more who served those who fought, bringing forward ammunition, digging new trenches right at the front. The pay for this was better than the pay she’d gotten digging in the “safe” trenches. She brought a shovel for camouflage. 
The first round of trenches were familiar, the same kinds she’d been digging in for months now. She even saw some of the diggers she’d dug alongside of, nodding to them though her heart was thumping. You’ll be shot , she thought, and she palmed an electronic eye and stuck it to the wall of a trench. 
“There’s no police station in the village, is there?” he asked. 
“I’ve never seen one, but I’ve heard Mrs. Royce talk about the constable. Anyhow, she can tell us.” 
“Yes,” he said, and was silent for a moment. “Rather a pity, isn’t it,” he went on, “that there has to be—all that? Because it doesn’t matter now. It’s finished. Better if the house burned down to-night!” 
In her heart Lexy agreed with him. She had no curiosity left, and scarcely any interest. As he had said, it was finished. She wanted to rest, not to speak, not to think, not to remember; but it couldn’t be so. They would both have to tell what they had seen, to answer questions. It wasn’t enough that two people lay dead in that house of horror. All the world, which knew and cared nothing about them, must have a full explanation. 
“I suppose we couldn’t wait till morning?” she suggested. 
He took her hand and drew it through his arm. 
“You’re worn out,” he told her. “It’s altogether wrong. There’s no reason why you should be troubled any more, Lexy. Slip into the house quietly, and get to bed and to sleep. Nobody need know that you went there.” 
“You think I wouldn’t do the patriotic thing and report sus- picious behavior to the FBI? And then become horrified by their methods and filled with remorse?” He clutched his chest. “Try to do the right thing, only to realize that I’m in a nightmare of double-dealing, willing to put my own liberty at risk to shine a light on an Orwellian system?” He looked as if he was posing for a moving poster, then grinned suddenly. “I love this role. It’s got a lot of nuance.” 
“It’s Brechtian.” 
“You keep using that word. I do not think it means what you think it means.” He started to explain why it wasn’t Brechtian, but I wasn’t paying attention. Instead, I reached for my phone and had a moment of panic, it wasn’t in my pocket where it usually lived. 
Then I realized it was still turned off in my Faraday-cage backpack. 
When I switched it on, the screen was full of notifications. “Oh, 
crap. Monica has sent me, like, a million texts. She’s freaking out.” 
I tapped a reassuring message, telling her I had forgotten to switch my phone back on after...  still finishing up my group project, which was true even if it wasn’t the group project for school. She messaged me back to say she’d been really worried that I’d been detained by the police or run over by a snowplow and (the good news) she was still out with her date. 
"That is what compositions are for," returned Miss Dearborn doubtfully; "to make you have things to say. Now in your last one, on solitude, you haven't said anything very interesting, and you've made it too common and every-day to sound well. There are too many 'yous' and 'yours' in it; you ought to say 'one' now and then, to make it seem more like good writing. 'One opens a favorite book;' 'One's thoughts are a great comfort in solitude,' and so on." 
"I don't know any more about solitude this week than I did about joy and duty last week," grumbled Rebecca. 
"You tried to be funny about joy and duty," said Miss Dearborn reprovingly; "so of course you didn't succeed." 
"I didn't know you were going to make us read the things out loud," said Rebecca with an embarrassed smile of recollection. 
"Joy and Duty" had been the inspiring subject given to the older children for a theme to be written in five minutes. 
Rebecca had wrestled, struggled, perspired in vain. When her turn came to read she was obliged to confess she had written nothing. 
"Oh, you can be rougher than that. My little critters love adapting to hard circumstances." She tossed the vampire high in the sky, let it come down on the floor, having righted itself in the air to take the drop on its armored back. "You can't break it, it's made of garbage." 
The VC fondled each of her pieces, making genuine appreciative noises. She could tell the difference between the genuine article and the fakes. 
"I remember all these things from when I was little," he said at last. "I wanted them all so badly. Each one seemed impossibly wonderful and out of reach." 
"Yeah," she said. "That's what does it, all right. That feeling right there. You watched these go from fetish item to six-for-a-buck in the blister packs at the pharmacy check-out. This gives them back their dignity." 
"Can I ask how many of these you sell?" 
"Enough," she said. "As many as I can make. I mostly do commissions, but only with people who come down in person. I won't sell online. Getting off email was the best gift I ever gave myself." 
"This is California Live and we're talking to an anonymous caller at a payphone in San Francisco. He has his own information about the slowdowns we've been facing around town this week. Caller, you're on the air." 
"Yeah, yo, this is just the beginning, you know? I mean, like, we're just getting started. Let them hire a billion pigs and put a checkpoint on every corner. We'll jam them all! And like, all this crap about terrorists? We're not terrorists! Give me a break, I mean, really! We're jamming up the system because we hate the Homeland Security, and because we love our city. Terrorists? I can't even spell jihad. Peace out." 
He sounded like an idiot. Not just the incoherent words, but also his gloating tone. He sounded like a kid who was indecently proud of himself. He was a kid who was indecently proud of himself. 
The Xnet flamed out over this. Lots of people thought he was an idiot for calling in, while others thought he was a hero. I worried that there was probably a camera aimed at the payphone he'd used. Or an arphid reader that might have sniffed his Fast Pass. I hoped he'd had the smarts to wipe his fingerprints off the quarter, keep his hood up, and leave all his arphids at home. But I doubted it. I wondered if he'd get a knock on the door sometime soon. 
The word parsed oddly, as if I were listening to a foreign language speaker say something and knew it wasn’t coming out the way he intended. “Sure,” I said. 
Tresting stood back up and regarded me with a slight frown, as if I were a puzzle with a new twist. “They would’ve killed me,” he said. “This neighborhood, cops would’ve been too slow.” 
“Yeah,” I agreed. 
“I ain’t...thanks,” he said again. 
I looked around the ruined office. Depression had neatly replaced the smugness. “They’re kids,” I whispered. Maybe I was the monster he thought I was after all. “They’re kids.” 
“I know,” he said heavily, and it sounded like he did. 
I took a deep breath. “What now?” 
He hesitated. “I don’t know. Something’s different. First time Pithica’s targeted me.” 
“You think this was Pithica?” 
“Korean gang members trying to hit a black PI in a bad neighborhood,” Tresting recited. “Cops would write it off as a hate crime.” 
“So? Maybe it was.” 
“You saw the data, Russell. Hell, you’ve been attacked.” 
My thoughts ground to a halt. “They don’t want it investigated.” 
She raised a blotchy, tear-streaked face to look at me. “I don’t—I don’t know. I swear I don’t.” 
Right. 
My client might be lying to me. My client, who was already on the run not only from the authorities, but from a drug cartel who wanted her dead, government men in dark suits, a dirty cop, and some unknown player willing to commit arson and murder to cover its tracks. 
And, on top of everything, I’d lost my information broker. I tried not to think about Penny, the twelve-year-old kick-ass hacker who’d been taught to pay her taxes on time. 
Courtney cried softly in the passenger seat the whole way to the bolt hole I drove us to. If she was playing a part, laying it on thick in the hopes I’d buy the tearful façade, she deserved some sort of acting award. 
Maybe she really was just a naïve kid who had gotten in too deep, too scared or too stupid to tell me what was going on. 
Still, the crying pissed me off. What right did she have to sob her eyes out for people she’d barely met and seemed to judge from moment one? “For Christ’s sake,” I growled, as I swung the car into a grimy alleyway. “You didn’t even know them.” 
Words emerge, thick like mud, resplendent with echoes of foreign tongues and wordless meaning that shimmers just below the aural surface. 
"Fire consume you, strappado wrench your joints, 
Limbs snap and bones break, eyes burst and tongue bind, 
Love desert you, spirit fail Ears shatter and flay the flesh, 
Scald the nerves and fill with dark emptiness Dome of heaven close against your prayers Isolated you are, son of man. 
Isolated be. 
Windows of heaven shut before you. 
Alone. Alone. Alone. 
There is no God to hear the faithless faith."  Waeltz mutters something inchoate, half a thought. He does not so much crumble as he implodes, seems to swell minutely, then deflate as though his bone structure has evaporated. What remains is a pile of flesh, 
spilling fluids, white smoke sifting up from empty holes where his eyes had been. 
On Ray's tactical display, the orange form that was Waeltz flickers and vanishes. Then Pelton. And Whitfield. 
The words roll on, flattening Dhamers in his perch at the canyon's mouth. Kluge and Hanfland crouched on the rim. More, and Ray seems to imagine a perfect scene of Predators hovering two klicks away in the desert, 
“Dad?” Ada said. 
He held her tight. 
“Please, Arturo,” Natalie, his dead, multiplicitous ex-wife said. “I know it’s a lot to understand, but it’s different here in Eurasia. Better, too. I don’t expect you to come rushing back to my arms after all this time, but I’ll help you if you’ll let me. I owe you that much, no matter what happens between us. You too, Ada, I owe you a lifetime.” 
“How many are there of you?” he asked, not wanting to know the answer. 
“I don’t know exactly,” she said. 
“3,422,” Benny said. “This morning it was 3,423.” 
Arturo rocked back in his boots and bit his lip hard enough to draw blood. 
“Um,” Natalie said. “More of me to love?” 
He barked a laugh, and Natalie smiled and reached for him. He leaned back toward the jet, then stopped, defeated. Where would he go? He let her warm hand take his, and a moment later, Ada took her other hand and they stood facing each other, breathing in their smells. 
“I’ve gotten you your own place,” she said as she led them across the tarmac. “It’s close to where I live, but far enough for you to have privacy.” 
“You’re sending Pilar into the lion’s den. You realize that, don’t you?” The accusation spewed out harshly as Arthur hung up. It wasn’t what I wanted to say. “If the NSA thinks she’s involved, or just thinks she’s hiding anything, they could bury her.” 
He scrubbed a hand across his face and didn’t answer. 
Something ugly in me pressed me to keep talking. “Checker, too. He’s not going to have been able to wipe his connection to you enough to hide it from the NSA. You’re making them both vulnerable.” 
“What do you want from me, Russell?” Instead of snapping at me, his tone was quiet. Desperate. “I don’t know what’s right. Don’t know what to do.” 
Fuck. 
I drove in silence for a few minutes, hating myself. 
“I’ve got a bike near here in a storage unit,” I said finally. A peace offering. “In case you don’t want to steal another car.” 
“What? Yeah.” His spoke as if his mind was a million miles away. “Good. You take it. Ain’t got no license.” 
“Okay.” Neither did I, but then, I didn’t have a real driver’s license, either. 
Her brow furrowed, her lips pursing, trying to figure out the meaning in the punchline. 
“People are coming to get us.” I wasn’t sure I said the words or only thought them. I was loopy. Why did everything hurt so much? “Hold out, Professor...they’re coming. You have to hold out...” Who was I talking to? “They’ll be here.” 
“How do you know?” 
“Faith,” I mumbled. Faith... 
I remembered my earlier resolution, that I didn’t need my past to decide who I wanted to be now. I could be the type of person who trusted, couldn’t I? Why couldn’t I decide to be that? The type of person who trusted, and who protected an old woman from being hurt for as long as I needed to... 
“I don’t believe in faith,” Martinez said, very primly. “It’s the antithesis of evidence-based science.” 
She was right. But maybe I didn’t need to believe in general—I only needed to believe in certain people. I could manage that. 
Certain people. Arthur. Checker. Myself. 
Myself most of all. I had to believe I had it in me, somewhere, to do the right thing when it came down to the wire. Otherwise, why keep existing at all? I had nothing else of value— was nothing else. 
“Your father?” 
“He said he was digging trenches—that’s what he did all day yesterday.” 
Her mother’s eyes glinted. “Good. We need more trenches. We’ll fortify the whole city with them, spread them out all the way to their lines, trenches we can move through without being seen or shot. We’ll take the war to those bastards and slip away before they know we’ve killed them.” Mata had apparently forgotten all about not talking to Valentine like a grownup. 
The knock at the door came then, and Mata answered it and it was the woman from the city again. “Your little girl,” she said. 
“No,” Mata said. Her voice was flat and would not brook any contradiction. She’d bossed her nine brothers—Valentine’s uncles, now scattered to the winds—and then commanded a squadron in the revolution, and no one could win an argument with her. As far as Valentine knew, no one could win an argument with her. 
“No?” The woman from the city said. “No is not an option, comrade.” 
Mata drew herself up. “My husband digs. I fight. My daughter cares for our son. That’s enough from this family.” 
She took him down the stairs, snuffling and weeping a little still, but logy from all the rich food. She led him to the civic patrol office. 
“I can win the war,” she said. 
The woman from the city wasn’t so fat anymore, but she still had her armor on. She was the one who’d told father he had to go to the war. She didn’t seem to recognize Valentine, though. 
She stared at Valentine. “I’m busy,” she said. 
“I know a—” Valentine searched for the word. “A profiteer who has access to hardened logic that the infowar doesn’t work against.” 
The woman from the city looked at her a little longer this time. “I’m very busy, little girl.” 
“I can bring you to him. He has working printers.” 
The woman pretended not to hear her. She stared down at a pile of papers in front of her, and it was clear to Valentine that she was only pretending to read them. 
Valentine led Trover to the woman’s desk and knocked all the papers off of it. 
“It’s illegal to be a profiteer. Don’t you want to at least arrest him?” 
I guess Ange was thinking along the same lines, because she'd gone a color between white and green. 
"Let's get out of here," she said. 
Ange's mom and sister were out again, which made it easy to decide where we were going for the evening. It was past supper time, but my parents had known that I was meeting with Barbara and wouldn't give me any grief if I came home late. 
When we got to Ange's, I had no urge to plug in my Xbox. I had had all the Xnet I could handle for one day. All I could think about was Ange, Ange, Ange. Living without Ange. Knowing Ange was angry with me. Ange never going to talk to me again. Ange never going to kiss me again. 
She'd been thinking the same. I could see it in her eyes as we shut the door to her bedroom and looked at each other. I was hungry for her, like you'd hunger for dinner after not eating for days. Like you'd thirst for a glass of water after playing soccer for three hours straight. 
Like none of that. It was more. It was something I'd never felt before. I wanted to eat her whole, devour her. 
“Hey, Checker,” I said, “If you had her proof—how long would it take you to make it start working for you?” 
“You mean, how long to code it into an algorithm?” Checker ruminated for a few seconds. “Oh, geez. Um...it sounds like it’s pretty long, so even if I managed to understand it—and there’s also the issue of figuring out the best way to attack—I’d say weeks, at least. Maybe longer.” 
“Good,” I said. 
“Except not,” Checker contradicted. “Because, seriously, what’s our plan here? They have the data. They’ve probably made digital copies of all her notes by now, whether or not they understand the proof. Even if we get the original work back, we can’t ever be sure we’ve recovered the actual knowledge—in fact, we can be pretty sure we haven’t.” 
“One step at a time,” said Arthur. “Let’s figure out who has it.” 
“Well, Pilar’s on her way over here; we’re going to fine-tooth all the data we can get our hands on.” Pilar was Arthur and Checker’s office manager, and a damn good researcher, even if she didn’t tear through firewalls like tissue paper the way Checker did. “We’ll find out who’s behind this, Arthur. I promise.” 
The element of romance in Aurelia's marriage existed chiefly in the fact that Mr. L. D. M. Randall had a soul above farming or trading and was a votary of the Muses. He taught the weekly singing-school (then a feature of village life) in half a dozen neighboring towns, he played the violin and "called off" at dances, or evoked rich harmonies from church melodeons on Sundays. He taught certain uncouth lads, when they were of an age to enter society, the intricacies of contra dances, or the steps of the schottische and mazurka, and he was a marked figure in all social assemblies, though conspicuously absent from town-meetings and the purely masculine gatherings at the store or tavern or bridge. 
His hair was a little longer, his hands a little whiter, his shoes a little thinner, his manner a trifle more polished, than that of his soberer mates; indeed the only department of life in which he failed to shine was the making of sufficient money to live upon. Luckily he had no responsibilities; his father and his twin brother had died when he was yet a boy, and his mother, whose only noteworthy achievement had been the naming of her twin sons Marquis de Lafayette and Lorenzo de Medici Randall, had supported herself and educated her child by making coats up to the very day of her death. She was wont to say plaintively, "I'm afraid the faculties was too much divided up between my twins. L. D. M. is awful talented, but I guess M. D. L. would 'a' ben the practical one if he'd 'a' lived." 
Lee-Daniel shrugged up at her, caught a whiff of gas that set his eyes to watering and looked back at the clearing. Cobra was lying on his side, face away from them. The girl was holding his hand, face covered by a placid mask, but he heard her sob. 
"Now! Back to the bus!" 
Lee-Daniel climbed the tree. He got up to the first surveyor's branch, Ole Stinky, and he gave the man a shove. He fell like a stone. He stepped on Stinky's branch, grabbed the kid by an arm and yanked, hard. The kid dropped, too. "Down," he said to Elaine, and dropped, landing on the kid. 
"Leave them," the Series A man said. "We aren't insured --" 
Elaine jumped down, holding her laserpointer in her hand. 
"Run!" Lee-Daniel said, shoving at the two surveyors, then taking off, running blindly in the moonlight, whacking into tree-trunks, tripping. 
The bus was crowded with CogRads and he vaulted up the steps and slammed into the driver's seat, authenticating on the palm-reader and putting the bus through its warm-up/lock-down urban defense checklist. He was vaguely aware of more bodies coming in, then he slammed the door-close button as the shutters unrolled over the windows. 
"I'd rather be an apple-tree in blossom,—that one that blooms pink, by our pig-pen." 
Rebecca laughed. There was always something unexpected in Emma Jane's replies. "I'd choose to be that scarlet maple just on the edge of the pond there,"—and she pointed with the whip. "Then I could see so much more than your pink apple-tree by the pig-pen. I could look at all the rest of the woods, see my scarlet dress in my beautiful looking-glass, and watch all the yellow and brown trees growing upside down in the water. When I'm old enough to earn money, I'm going to have a dress like this leaf, all ruby color—thin, you know, with a sweeping train and ruffly, curly edges; then I think I'll have a brown sash like the trunk of the tree, and where could I be green? Do they have green petticoats, I wonder? I'd like a green petticoat coming out now and then underneath to show what my leaves were like before I was a scarlet maple." 
"I think it would be awful homely," said Emma Jane. "I'm going to have a white satin with a pink sash, pink stockings, bronze slippers, and a spangled fan." 
And why wouldn't he be? That is the way brothers act in the normal world, as surrogate guardians of their kid sisters' virtue. Ray should probably spend a few moments deciding among expressions and body language that suggest abashment, outrage, guilt or just a generalized confusion. 
Since he hadn't registered anything about Frederick Whiston the night before other than an archetypal sense of agitation, Ray peers after Frederick Whiston through the leaves of the ferns. He's thin and dark, the negative image of Emma's glowing vibrancy. Sallow complexion, hair slicked back from his forehead, eyes hooded as if the lights are too bright or the lids have been trained to provide an air of condescending superiority. This morning, Frederick has been hastily put together. He's wearing last night's dinner jacket and slacks, both of which have the rumpled appearance that comes from having been slept in. He has missed a button on his white shirt, and the collar stabs up toward his chin. Unshaven, glassy-eyed, would probably have been unsteady on his feet if he wasn't bowling down the concourse like a steamroller without brakes, Ray suspects that Mr. Frederick Whiston carries about him a reek of sour alcohol and liquor sweat in a three foot diameter halo. 
<zen> He actually tried to apologize to me later. I ran into him in a bookstore last year and he said "I'm sorry you were so upset." 
WTF? ? ! ! 
<wheeze> And yet you let him live? 
<zen> I was feeling generous. Also, I was afraid I'd get carried away and destroy the bookstore . 
<wheeze> I would consider that acceptable collateral damage. 
<zen> I've been thinking - would it be okay if I visited you instead? 
<wheeze> That would be incredibly great. 
<zen> Don't you have to ask Jane Shandy? 
<wheeze> I'll just hide her shotgun. (Not really. She says it's fine.) 
<zen> And can Nikko and Bree come? Because Bree's spring break is coming up and she has a car . 
<wheeze> Bring all your friends . 
<zen> That *is* all my friends. Counting you . 
<zen> Well actually, not all. I'll introduce you to the rest when we get there. 
I was nervous about this visit. We hadn’t seen each other since I left him in the armchair beside the wood stove, his sprained ankle propped up on a stool. But we had gotten close over the past few months. Really close. Like, he-knows-all-of-my-secrets close. 
The force of habit was too strong, and even in the hour of death Jane had remembered that a telegram was twenty-five cents, and that Aurelia would have to pay half a dollar for its delivery. 
Rebecca burst into a passion of tears as she cried, "Poor, poor aunt Miranda! She is gone without taking a bit of comfort in life, and I couldn't say good-by to her! Poor lonely aunt Jane! What can I do, mother? I feel torn in two, between you and the brick house." 
"You must go this very instant," said Aurelia; starting from her pillows. "If I was to die while you were away, I would say the very same thing. Your aunts have done everything in the world for you,—more than I've ever been able to do,—and it is your turn to pay back some o' their kindness and show your gratitude. The doctor says I've turned the corner and I feel I have. Jenny can make out somehow, if Hannah'll come over once a day." 
"But, mother, I CAN'T go! Who'll turn you in bed?" exclaimed Rebecca, walking the floor and wringing her hands distractedly. 
It was enough. It was all he could stand to hear. Ray puts his hand up, shakes his head. Stop. For God's sake, 
just stop. He didn't want to think about crazy martyrs. 
"But what does this have to do with me? What does this have to do with a kid murdered on my ship in the middle of nowhere?" 
A massive stone ring, Ray thinks. Then, he doesn't know about modern medicine, does he.. .You think Solomon was an asshole?. ..I have a stone ring, inscribed with Solomon's sacred seals and incantations, fused with the bones of my skull, by God. 
Holcomb seems to watch him, nodding. "There was peace in Jerusalem and in all of Israel in Solomon's time," 
he whispers. "Solomon the Wise." 
"What happened to it?" Ray's voice is thick, clotted. He feels like he's choking. 
"I launched an immediate recovery expedition. People were questioned, bribes were paid... other, less savory actions were taken. But it could have been going anywhere in the world, from any port within driving distance; hurtled to unknown destinations from any of a hundred regional airports. There was simply no way to cover the ground quickly enough. By the time we picked up the trail— from Kuwait to Bangkok to Buenos Aires-the interstellar cargo hauler Fortitude was burning across the void for New Holyoke." 
His hair was a little longer, his hands a little whiter, his shoes a little thinner, his manner a trifle more polished, than that of his soberer mates; indeed the only department of life in which he failed to shine was the making of sufficient money to live upon. Luckily he had no responsibilities; his father and his twin brother had died when he was yet a boy, and his mother, whose only noteworthy achievement had been the naming of her twin sons Marquis de Lafayette and Lorenzo de Medici Randall, had supported herself and educated her child by making coats up to the very day of her death. She was wont to say plaintively, "I'm afraid the faculties was too much divided up between my twins. L. D. M. is awful talented, but I guess M. D. L. would 'a' ben the practical one if he'd 'a' lived." 
"L. D. M. was practical enough to get the richest girl in the village," replied Mrs. Robinson. 
"Yes," sighed his mother, "there it is again; if the twins could 'a' married Aurelia Sawyer, 't would 'a' been all right. L. D. M. was talented 'nough to GET Reely's money, but M. D. L. would 'a' ben practical 'nough to have KEP' it." 
“Really, Ms. Russell?” said Dawna, a hint of humor in her voice. 
“It was worth a try,” I said aloud, and reached around to untuck the Glock and the TEC-9 from my belt and leave them on the ground, too. 
“Everything,” said Dawna. “I must say, it’s almost as if you doubt me.” 
I slid the knife out of my boot and left it with the firearms. 
Dawna lowered her hands. “That’s better,” she declared, and I felt a sharp pang of frustration. Rio had warned me, but something in me had hoped his stark description an exaggeration. 
“Yes, I do,” Dawna said briskly. “Now, we do know you can be...an effective person, even unarmed. Please believe Mr. Tresting will continue to be a hostage to your good behavior.” She raised her voice slightly. “Take her, please.” 
More shadows glided out of the surrounding rooms, black-clad bodies punctuated with the distinctive hard angles of the well-armed. If I had been here alone, I might have looked for a way out, even with Dawna reading me—might have tried to get away even if the mathematical expectation read death. But if I made a move... goddamn Arthur. I shut my mind away from calculating escape routes and let gloved hands pull my wrists behind me; the plastic bite of a ziptie cut into my skin. 
I cut in the video of Johnstone and Kurt Rooney. "That's Johnstone and Secretary of State Kurt Rooney, the president's chief strategist." 
"The nation does not love that city. As far as they're concerned, it is a Sodom and Gomorrah of fags and atheists who deserve to rot in hell. The only reason the country cares what they think in San Francisco is that they had the good fortune to have been blown to hell by some Islamic terrorists." 
"He's talking about the city where I live. At last count, 4,215 of my neighbors were killed on the day he's talking about. But some of them may not have been killed. Some of them disappeared into the same prison where I was tortured. Some mothers and fathers, children and lovers, brothers and sisters will never see their loved ones again -- because they were secretly imprisoned in an illegal jail right here in the San Francisco Bay. They were shipped overseas. The records were meticulous, but Carrie Johnstone has the encryption keys." I cut back to Carrie Johnstone, the footage of her sitting at the board table with Rooney, laughing. 
I pushed off the wall and limped toward the back of what had been this building’s eating area. My legs almost buckled, but I forced them to support me. 
I got to the back wall—well, lurched against it. I fumbled with the latch on one of the windows with my left hand, but the thing was rusted shut and my fingers were slick with blood. I’d lost the AK at some point, but I pulled out my knife and bashed the hilt against the pane. Large shards cascaded down. I started using the blade to break off any jagged bits remaining in the bottom of the frame; I had no desire to be cut up more than I already was. 
“Hands in the air,” said a quiet voice behind me. 
I turned slightly. 
The same fucking DHS agent from before stood across the room, her tall silhouette backlit in the door. Aiming a gun at me. Again. 
“I thought it was you,” she said evenly. “Hands in the air. You’re coming in this time.” 
Still, she was only one DHS agent. And she had a gun aimed at me, but all I needed was a split-second distraction... 
Well. At least she hadn’t mind-zapped me during that part. I kind of wished she had—it would make my doubts easier to swallow. “She talked about Pithica,” I admitted softly. “How it’s all because they want to make people’s lives better. How they want to make the world all peaceful and wonderful for everyone.” 
“Did you believe her?” 
I picked at the blanket across my knees. “I’m not sure.” 
“I see,” he said. 
“She didn’t brainwash me,” I insisted. “It wasn’t like that. I remember everything. She just...she had a lot of really logical arguments.” 
“Cas,” said Rio, “She had logical arguments for you because you respond to logical arguments.” 
I was confused. “What other type would someone respond to?” 
“It’s clear you don’t often converse with other people,” said Rio with a hint of irony. 
“Oh, and you do?” 
“Touché,” he said. “Cas, she used the method of argument that would most appeal to you. With another she might have used emotional appeal, or irrelevant facts, or fallacies of any stripe.” 
"I think it's making you a better person," I said on the phone to him one night. There was always the possibility that someone at the Institute would figure out how to shut off his network links sometime soon, but my successors, whomever they were, didn't seem anywhere near that point. The Campaign's lawyer -- an up-and-coming Stanford cyberlaw prof who was giving us access to her grad students for free -- advised me that so long as BIGMAC called me and not the other way around, no one could accuse me of unlawful access to the Institute's systems. It can't be unlawful access if the Institute's computers call you , can it? 
"You think I'm less sarcastic, more understanding." 
"Or you're better at seeming less sarcastic and more understanding." 
"That was pretty sarcastic." 
"Or was it?" 
"You're really workin' the old Markov chains today, aren't you? I've got six more interviews lined up for you tomorrow --" 
"Saw that, put it in my calendar." BIGMAC read all the Campaign's email, and knew all that I was up to before I did. It was a little hard to get used to. 
I drew my gun, keeping it hidden from the street behind my body. “You got your lockpicks on you?” 
“Cover me,” he said, pulling them out. 
He slid the picks in and turned the knob. “Behind me,” I said as he pushed the door open, and I crept in crosshairs-first. Arthur dropped back so I could take point and eased the door shut behind us with a click. 
The entryway led into an earth-toned living room in a jumble of...  chairs were knocked off-kilter, with some needlepoint and photographs dangling askew and scattered across the floor. A set of shelves had fallen to lean precariously against the back of the couch, books and papers strewn across the furniture. 
The disarray wasn’t too bad—just enough to tell the story of a struggle. 
“Oh,” said a weak voice. 
Arthur swore and slipped past me into the kitchen, holstering his Glock. I followed and saw a pair of stumpy legs sprawled over the ceramic tile, attached to a woman slumped against the refrigerator—a woman who was not Sonya Halliday. She was a very tiny older lady, with copper-toned skin and a face so creased with wrinkles she reminded me of a walnut. A cap of gray hair still shot with black gave her a few years back, though right now the hair was wet and matted, and the ice-filled washcloth she held against it was being dyed a deep red. 
“He trusts you to come through,” she said softly. “I can tell.” 
“But I’m—listen, Arthur’s handy with a gun, but I’m way, way better than he is. He trusts me to come through for him because he knows I can.” 
“Because he knows you will,” she insisted. 
“I really don’t know what point you’re trying to make,” I said, my emotions prickling. “What you’re saying doesn’t make a difference. It doesn’t matter what he wants to do or how much you trust him to want it, because sometimes no matter how hard you try, there are still going to be things you can’t make happen.” 
“I know,” she said, the weight of the universe in those words. 
I was starting to get angry. “So...?” 
“What you’re saying is, is rational, but—I do trust Arthur that much, despite everything. Regardless of how illogical it seems. And I think...I think it’s sad you don’t. That’s all.” 
The only person I trusted to have my back to that level was Rio, and for good reason. “I don’t know what to tell you,” I said to Halliday stiffly. “You’re not talking about trust. You’re talking about faith.” 
They surrounded the truck and unlocked it and Rhindquist stepped out with his hands in his pockets. He said, Quality Auditor, boys, radio it in. The security guards looked like they wanted to shoot him, but one of them talked into his phone and then shouted out at all the security guards in Securitese and they went away! 
Rhindquist walked over to me and said, Jap, you aren't the brightest bulb on the marquee, but you think fast and you follow orders. I said, I am as smart as the next person and I do my job. I said to the security guard from Finance 38, aren't you going to arrest him, he's a spy!? And the security guard said, Look, he's management. He's allowed to do this. 
And Rhindquist put his arm around my shoulders and said, You're stuck in a loop, son. New data: I'm not a spy, I'm your boss, and you did right, even if you have blown the audit. How'd you like a promotion? 
And I said, you're management? 
And then, do you know what? He said, Jap, my boy-o, I am Rhindquist J McBride, CEO, President, and Chairman of the Board of the File-O-Gator Corporation, The Incorporated Township of File-O-Gator, Ontario, and File-O-Gator International Holdings, Limited. I'm in charge ! 
"There was, however, another school of healing at that time, those who honored the daughter of Asklepios. She was Hygeia, their goddess of health. The Hygeians believed that wellness originated from properly governing your own body. For them, the greatest service of the physician was to learn how we can work with our bodies. Their ideal was healing from within rather than intervention from without." 
Again he was studying me, as though trying to determine whether I was going along with what he was saying. 
"Unfortunately," he continued, "the Hygeian school more or less died out in the West. However, it lives on in other places. For example, primitive peoples have no manufac­tured, synthetic drugs, so they use natural herbs to enhance their own immune system and stay healthy." 
He turned to study the river, dropping into silence. 
"Maybe I'm missing something," I declared finally. His hypnotic voice had drawn me in, in spite of myself. "How does this relate to infertility?" 
He turned back and caught me with his shining eyes. They seemed to be giving off heat of their own. "Just as the body is intended to heal itself, so is a woman's womb meant to create life. If she's childless, the reason more often than not is that her body is out of harmony with itself. What I do here is seek out each woman's unique energy flows and attempt to restore them, using Eastern practices and Hygeian herbal therapies." 
I tried to keep my gaze as wide as possible while I turned to catch the guy in my peripheral vision. I wouldn’t have recognized him right away from my glimpse at Polk’s house—he had dressed casually in jeans and a sweatshirt this time, and didn’t seem at all out of place in the park. Combined with his appearance as a fifty-ish clean-cut white guy, in good shape but not attractive enough to turn anyone’s head, he was in all ways most emphatically someone who would go entirely unnoticed. 
He kept his hands out of his pockets and slightly away from his body as he approached. Smart man. Tresting stood up as he reached the table. 
“Mr. Tresting,” the man said in greeting. 
I glanced sharply at Tresting, but he was already nodding to concede the name. “Thought you wouldn’t have trouble with that.” 
“Your identity was easy enough to deduce. Your associate, however...” He extended a hand to me. “May I ask whom I have the pleasure of addressing?” 
I snorted. “You can ask. And who are you?” 
“Call me Steve.” 
"Oh, he likes it. His reality distortion field, it screws with his internal landscape. Makes it hard for him to figure out what he needs, what he wants, and what will make him miserable. I'm indispensable." 
He had a sudden, terrible thought. He didn't say anything, but she must have seen it on his face. 
"What is it? Tell me." 
"How do I know that you're on the level about any of this? Maybe you're just jerking me around. Maybe it's all made up -- the jetpacks, everything." He swallowed. "I'm sorry. I don't know where that came from, but it popped into my head --" 
"It's a fair question. Here's one that'll blow your mind, though: how do you know that I'm not on the level, and jerking you around?" 
They changed the subject soon after, with uneasy laughter. They ended up on a park bench near the family of dancing bears, whom they watched avidly. 
"They seem so happy ," he said. "That's what gets me about them. Like dancing was the secret passion of every bear, and these three are the first to figure out how to make a life of it." 
“Your girl there is big enough to look after herself, aren’t you honey?” The woman from the city was short and plump and wore heavy armor and was red in the face from walking up ten flights to get to their flat. The power to the elevators was almost always out. 
Valentine hugged her father’s leg. “My Popa will fight for the city,” she said. “He’s a hero.” 
He was. He’d fought in the revolution and he’d been given a medal for it. Sometimes when no one was looking, Valentine took out her parents’ medals and looked at their tiny writing, their shining, unscratchable surfaces, their intricate ribbons. 
The woman from the city gave her father a look that said, You see, a child understands, what’s your excuse? Valentine couldn’t quite feel guilty for taking the woman’s side. Leeza’s parents fought every day. 
“I must leave a note for my wife,” he said. Valentine realized that for the first time in her life her parents were going to leave her all on her own and felt a thrill. 
Two weeks and one day after the siege began, her Mata came home and the city came for Valentine. 
I took a step backward and ended up standing on someone's toes. A female voice said "oof" and I spun around, worried that some crack-ho was going to stab me for breaking her heels. 
Instead, I found myself face to face with another kid my age. She had a shock of bright pink hair and a sharp, rodent-like face, with big sunglasses that were practically air-force goggles. She was dressed in striped tights beneath a black granny dress, with lots of little Japanese decorer toys safety pinned to it -- anime characters, old world leaders, emblems from foreign soda-pop. 
She held up a camera and snapped a picture of me and my crew. 
"Cheese," she said. "You're on candid snitch-cam." 
"No way," I said. "You wouldn't --" 
"I will," she said. "I will send this photo to truant watch in thirty seconds unless you four back off from this clue and let me and my friends here run it down. You can come back in one hour and it'll be all yours. I think that's more than fair." 
I looked behind her and noticed three other girls in similar garb -- one with blue hair, one with green, and one with purple. "Who are you supposed to be, the Popsicle Squad?" 
How beautifully hypocritical of the man with a carry permit. “Well, when you get around to fixing the world, you let me know.” 
“At least tell me you taught her to be safe with it, taught her muzzle and trigger discipline—” 
“I told her to point it at the thing she wants dead,” I said. “She’s a smart girl. She’s not going to shoot herself.” 
“What the— shit, Russell! That ain’t no way to teach someone firearms. The safety of it’s gotta be second-nature!” 
“Then you start taking her,” I said. Excellent. Teaching Pilar marksmanship hadn’t been as tooth-jarringly painful as I’d expected, but I still wasn’t going to pass up a chance to get out of the obligation. “Now will you let me watch the road?” The concussion was making my vision fuzzy around the edges, but I wasn’t going to admit it. 
We made good time to Pasadena. Dr. Martinez’s condo was in a pleasant, modern building full of wide windows and balconies. I had my hand under my jacket on my Colt as we got out of the car, just in case. 
She sighed and took another sip. 
"I told you I don't care. When they brought him, all pink and helpless, I just—" 
"Who brought him?" I interrupted. 
"Well, I'd been up there the day before, signing all the papers. I was supposed to go up that day, but then somebody called and said one of the girls who was staying in the clinic or whatever it is was bringing him to me. So don't come." 
"You're saying one of the girls—?" 
"Yeah." She looked wistful for a moment, as though re­membering. "Then she just showed up, looked like some blond college dropout. I guess a little more fanfare would've been nice, but Marcy was there to help me and that was it. That's the last contact I ever had with Children of Light." She shuddered involuntarily. "Till now." 
Well, I thought, the last thing I'm going to do is tell her about what I just saw. She's the ideal customer for Alex God­dard: She truly doesn't want to know details. 
"Carly, there's not much I can do about what's already happened, but I can try to keep you from getting into any more trouble. Why don't you call them in the morning and tell them you've yelled at me and rescinded your permission for Applecore to use the film? And say I've promised I won't. You've threatened to sue me or something. That should get you off the hook." 
The truth was, after Steve took off, I hadn't really been trying all that hard to pick myself up off the canvas and look around. Besides, I didn't want some other guy, I wanted him. Added to that, I somehow felt that when you're on the short countdown for forty, you shouldn't have to be going out on blind dates, wondering whether that buttoned-down MBA sitting across from you in some trendy Italian restaurant thinks you're a blimp (even though you skipped lunch), tell­ing yourself he's presentable, doesn't seem like a serial killer, has a job, only mentioned his mother once, and could qualify as an acceptable life's mate. There's no spark, but he's prob­ably quite nice. You wanly remember that old Barney's ad jingle, "Select, don't settle," but at this stage of life you're ready to admit you've flunked out in Love 101 and should just go with Like. 
Which was one of the reasons I missed Steve so deeply. He was a lover, but he was also a best friend. And I was running low on those. 
Every woman needs a best pal. After my former best, Betsy, married Joel Aimes, Off-Broadway's latest contribu­tion to Dreamworks, and moved to the Coast with him, I was noticing a lot of empty evenings. In the old days, we could talk for hours. It was funny, since we were actually very different. Betsy, who had forgotten more about clothes and makeup than most women would ever know, hung around the garment-center showrooms and always came away with samples of next season's couture, usually for a song. I envied her that, since I usually just pretended not to care and pulled on another pair of jeans every morning. But she shared my love of Asian music. 
He thanked her numbly and stepped out into the Lower East Side. The bodega turned out to have an amazing selection of ice-cream, so he bought the one with the most elaborated name, full of chunks, swirls and stir-ins, and brought it up to his apartment, which was so big that it made his knees tremble when he unlocked his door. The realtor had been right. Depression was next. 
Viktor sent him an invitation a month later. It came laser-etched into a piece of ancient leather, delivered by a messenger whose jetpack was so quiet that he didn't even notice that she had gone until he looked up from the scroll to thank her. His new apartment was a perch he rented by the week at five times what an annual lease would have cost him, but still a fraction of what he had been paying on the LES. It was jammed with boxes of things he hadn't been able to bring himself to get rid of, and now he cursed every knick-knack as he dug through them looking for a good suit. 
He gave up. The invitation said, "At your earliest convenience," and a quadrillionaire in a vat wasn't going to be impressed by his year-old designer job-interview suit. 
"There's a faint electrical signal that precedes the message as network encryption codes link with the remote units." 
Unbelievable. 
Ray sheds the tac helmet and peers at the LCD on the comm. He doesn't recognize the sender's id, and it's just a jumble of digits like a general use machine. For an instant, his heart leaps. Emma! Somehow she's managed to elude her quasi -jailers and wants to meet him somewhere. 
By the way, about your brother... 
But more than likely it's just Kilgore and Rodriguez checking in, feeling sorry for him, inviting him to the  party one last time. 
Ray backs out of the applications he's in and accesses the decryption software. He punches in his key and is informed by the giddy, canned southerner that she doesn't know who the comm is coming from (i.e. that it's a general use comm as he's already surmised) but that the encryption is light, barely above commercial level. 
When the connection is made, all he hears is breathing. Rapid, shallow, with a tremble in the inhalations. 
“You made a mistake,” Arthur said bracingly, putting a hand on her shoulder. “Humans do that. Okay? Cut yourself a break. Now eat something. Please.” 
She finally obeyed, sipping delicately at a spoonful of stew broth. “I understand what you’re saying, but to be perfectly honest with you both—I’m not sure I deserve this deal we have. I handled this wrong from the start.” 
“You can have your crisis of confidence after we get your proof done,” I said. I spooned up my last bite of stew and pushed away the empty dishes to pick up her latest papers, the ones she and Zhang had been scribbling on during his visit today. “You’re close on this, but you’re going in circles. Come on, the whole point of the graph theory lemma was so clearly to give you a reducing function for f-bar.” 
Halliday dropped her spoon, spattering broth across the pages, and snatched the ones I was holding, her mouth gaping wide. “Yes—of course! How did we not see that!” 
“You weren’t thinking?” 
She brushed me off and snatched at a pen, but Arthur picked it up first and moved it out of her reach. “Eat, Sonya. The proof will be here.” 
Animated, yes. Thinking, yes. Supernatural, yes. But also vulnerable to outside control if the proper rites are observed. They become receptacles for instruction, neither good nor evil, but subroutines of a program intimately bound up with creation. Brezhnaya, for example, was simply plugging in the parameters of his choice and hitting the execute key. After that, the program would run as it had been instructed and heedless of the consequences. It is not the best solution to the shed problem, but it is manageable, and it's all Ialdabaoth can do because he is either unwilling or unable to destroy completely the things he has made." 
"Which doesn't make them any less dangerous at all," Becker points out, "if they manage to fall into the wrong hands, like Mikhail Brezhnaya's, as we've seen." 
Again, Ray remembers clearly the way Kev Whitfield collapsed, boneless. The wet and slopping sound his flesh made against the stone. 
"Yes." 
"And you believe this, Ray? You believe the things Jack Holcomb said?" 
"It's for video-games," I said. "That's what most people use it for. It's just a wireless network. It's what everyone did with those free Xboxes they gave away last year." 
He glowered at me. "Games? Marcus, you don't realize it, but you're providing cover for people who plan on attacking and destroying this country. I don't want to see you using this Xnet. Not anymore. Do I make myself clear?" 
I wanted to argue. Hell, I wanted to shake him by the shoulders. But I didn't. I looked away. I said, "Sure, Dad." I went to school. 
At first I was relieved when I discovered that they weren't going to leave Mr Benson in charge of my social studies class. But the woman they found to replace him was my worst nightmare. 
She was young, just about 28 or 29, and pretty, in a wholesome kind of way. She was blonde and spoke with a soft southern accent when she introduced herself to us as Mrs Andersen. That set off alarm bells right away. I didn't know any women under the age of sixty that called themselves "Mrs." 
"'In the actual—this painful kingdom of time and chance—are Care, Canker, and Sorrow; with thought, with the Ideal, is immortal hilarity—the rose of Joy; round it all the Muses sing,'" quoted Miss Maxwell. 
Rebecca repeated it over and over again until she had learned it by heart; then she said, "I don't want to be conceited, but I almost believe I do understand it, Miss Maxwell. Not altogether, perhaps, because it is puzzling and difficult; but a little, enough to go on with. It's as if a splendid shape galloped past you on horseback; you are so surprised and your eyes move so slowly you cannot half see it, but you just catch a glimpse as it whisks by, and you know it is beautiful. It's all settled. My essay is going to be called The Rose of Joy. I've just decided. 
(Since all gold hath alloy), 
Thou 'lt bloom unwithered in this heart, 
My Rose of Joy! 
Now I'm going to tuck you up in the shawl and give you the fir pillow, and while you sleep I am going down on the shore and write a fairy story for you. It's one of our 'supposing' kind; it flies far, far into the future, and makes beautiful things happen that may never really all come to pass; but some of them will,—you'll see! and then you'll take out the little fairy story from your desk and remember Rebecca." 
It was a fair concern. After all, Arthur knew what happened when I wasn’t working—he was one of the few. That didn’t mean I wanted to concede. “You could have asked me. For the record, I’ll be fine.” 
“I’m sorry,” he said, though I didn’t hear much repentance in his tone. “It was too important; can you understand? Please? But I’m sorry. I am.” 
“So who is she?” 
He took a long breath. “Sonya and I—we grew up together. Childhood friends.” 
“And then?” 
“And then what? Life happened. We grew apart. Ain’t mean I don’t still care about her.” He kept his eyes glued to the road in front of him, like someone who wasn’t telling me anything close to the whole story. “So, uh. This math stuff. Help an old guy out—why is the world ending?” 
“This isn’t over,” I grumped, but I let him change the subject. For now. I slumped in the passenger seat, sticking my boots up on the dash. “Do you know anything about encryption?” 
“Not a thing.” 
“Okay. Well, a whole hell of a lot of our current crypto depends on the idea that factoring large integers is a really hard problem. In simple terms, we encrypt information by multiplying large prime numbers together, and the fact that no one can un- multiply them easily is what keeps everything secure. And ‘everything’ means everything—from your credit cards to the Department of Defense.” 
“They didn’t have a warrant, so they left, but it made her ner- vous.” I read back over my message. I hadn’t told her I was at Nikko’s place. There was a good chance she would assume that I was already at our apartment, finishing up my group project there. 
I sent back a generic apology and promised to be more careful next time. 
I drank the rest of my tea and set the mug on the floor. “Sleep on it. It’s a big commitment. Soon as you go to the police, you can’t back out. It could mean you can’t be in your play, you might flunk some courses, your parents will be mad. You could get in serious legal trouble. Your whole life could change.” 
“I’m up for it. It has to be done, right?” 
“Well, he’s my brother, not yours.” 
“But he’s getting screwed. All nine of them are.” His expres- sion turned serious, even solemn. At first I thought he was acting again, but he wasn’t. “Most of what I do is fun, it’s satisfying, and I get to act, which is what I want to do with my life. But there’s no big moral issue at stake. You pour all of this effort into a play and people come and see it, and they’re entertained for a couple of hours and maybe it makes them think. Which is fine. It’s great, 
Last Christmas season, there'd been poor losers on every corner dressed as warriors from the Halo series, handing out bags of these game-machines as fast as they could. I guess it worked -- everyone says they sold a whole butt-load of games. Naturally, there were countermeasures to make sure you only played games from companies that had bought licenses from Microsoft to make them. 
Hackers blow through those countermeasures. The Xbox was cracked by a kid from MIT who wrote a best-selling book about it, and then the 360 went down, and then the short-lived Xbox Portable (which we all called the "luggable" -- it weighed three pounds!) succumbed. The Universal was supposed to be totally bulletproof. The high school kids who broke it were Brazilian Linux hackers who lived in a favela -- a kind of squatter's slum. 
Never underestimate the determination of a kid who is time-rich and cash-poor. 
Once the Brazilians published their crack, we all went nuts on it. Soon there were dozens of alternate operating systems for the Xbox Universal. My favorite was ParanoidXbox, a flavor of Paranoid Linux. Paranoid Linux is an operating system that assumes that its operator is under assault from the government (it was intended for use by Chinese and Syrian dissidents), and it does everything it can to keep your communications and documents a secret. It even throws up a bunch of "chaff" communications that are supposed to disguise the fact that you're doing anything covert. So while you're receiving a political message one character at a time, ParanoidLinux is pretending to surf the Web and fill in questionnaires and flirt in chat-rooms. Meanwhile, one in every five hundred characters you receive is your real message, a needle buried in a huge haystack. 
The chocolate smelled wonderful. Wonderful was the word for it. It made her full of wonder. Rich. Something from another planet—from heaven, maybe. 
She lifted the mug and felt its warmth seep into her hands. She took a tentative sip and held it in her mouth. 
It was spicy! Was chocolate spicy? She didn’t think so! The rum made her tongue tingle and the heat made its fumes rise in her head, carrying up the chocolate taste and the peppers. Her eyes streamed. Her ears felt like they were full of chocolate. 
She swallowed and gasped and the wizard laughed. She looked at him. 
“Ana’s recipe. She adds the chilies. I think it’s lovely, don’t you? Aztec chocolate, we call it.” 
She took another mouthful, held it, swallowed. The chocolate was in her tummy too, and there was a feeling there, a greedy feeling, a more feeling. She drained the glass. Ana and the wizard both laughed. 
Ana handed her a tall frosted metal cup with a mountain of whipped cream on top and a straw sticking out. “Chocolate malted,” she said. “The perfect chaser.” 
Arthur threw me a black look. “Here’s what we’ll do. I can’t give up no chance on this. Where’s Zhang now? At work?” 
“No, he took the day off today,” said Pilar. “He’s chaperoning his daughter’s class trip to the tar pits.” 
“Even better. Pilar, you go talk to him.” 
She hesitated. “Okay.” 
“You’ll be fine,” said Arthur. “Just be honest about what’s going on. Checker’s right, we got to go in whole hog here, ain’t no point in dancing around no more. You can even tell him I’m on my way but I sent you first. Leave Russell and Checker out of it—I want ’em free to keep at this thing without the government coming knocking, so tell ’em it’s just me. But don’t worry about hiding nothing else, got it?” 
“Got it,” said Pilar. 
“I’m going to keep looking into this a little longer before breaking off and joining with the Feds. Checker, you got anything else?” 
“The SUV that tried to kill you has hit police impound,” said Checker. 
Arthur nodded. “I’ll pull some strings, get in to take a look.” 
“While you do that, can I have Cas? I could use her help for the van tracking. Extrapolation is sort of your thing,” Checker added to me. 
Because he can't look at her, can't see her expression, only feel her lips against his ear and her hip touching his, he says, "You're the most beautiful thing I have ever seen, Emma. And the fact that I feel that way scares me." 
"You've been lonely for a very long time. " Her voice is husky, wet with implication. 
"Have I?" 
"Would you have come tonight if you weren't?" 
Lonely? He hasn't thought about it in those terms, and it troubles him immediately. Loneliness is a step away from desperation. Lonely men make stupid mistakes, fall into logical traps that convince them those stupidities were warranted. 
What was the last thing he always made his men do before a major tactical engagement? 
Run into the nearest town and get laid or sucked or jerked off. If a soldier didn't have the money to buy it himself, Ray gave it to him. Because there was something essential in the release, something necessary and clarifying in having someone else do it for you. Someone soft and receptive, someone who maybe just pretended to care, but if you bought it, if you contributed to the illusion, that gave it enough weight to make it real. And when they came back to camp late in the night or early the next morning, their eyes were brighter, 
I’d thought he had gone white before, but now all the blood drained from his face as if sucked away, leaving him gray as a corpse behind his scraggly beard. It threw me off balance; I tried to cover with more bravado. “I’ll do it,” I pressed. “I’ll leave you somewhere, and I’ll call her.” 
“You don’t want to do that,” Finch croaked. “You don’t know what you’re dealing with.” 
“Oh, really? Why don’t you tell me then, Mr. SSA Finch?” 
Sweat had broken out all across his face, exacerbating the grayness. He rolled his gaze desperately toward Tresting, but the PI’s expression was unreadable. “I...I can get you a meeting with my supervisor,” he offered finally. “Please.” 
I began to be more than a little unnerved by his reaction. The man was folding like a wet piece of cardboard. Who the hell was Dawna Polk? Christ, my head hurt. “Fine,” I said. “Let’s go.” 
“You’ll come with us,” added Tresting. “We’ll set up a meet in a neutral place.” 
“Yes, all right, okay.” Finch sounded so desperate that I wouldn’t have been surprised if he’d started offering up friends and family as human sacrifices to us. “We can do that.” 
> You're coming? 
He looked at me and shook his head. Then he nodded. I winked at him and set to work getting in touch with the rest of my team. 
The thing that got me into trouble were the mini-games in the hotels. Whenever a science fiction convention came to town, some LARPer would convince them to let us run a couple of six-hour mini-games at the con, piggybacking on their rental of the space. Having a bunch of enthusiastic kids running around in costume lent color to the event, and we got to have a ball among people even more socially deviant than us. 
The problem with hotels is that they have a lot of non-gamers in them, too -- and not just sci-fi people. Normal people. From states that begin and end with vowels. On holidays. 
And sometimes those people misunderstand the nature of a game. 
Let's just leave it at that, OK? 
Class ended in ten minutes, and that didn't leave me with much time to prepare. The first order of business were those pesky gait-recognition cameras. Like I said, they'd started out as face-recognition cameras, but those had been ruled unconstitutional. As far as I know, no court has yet determined whether these gait-cams are any more legal, but until they do, we're stuck with them. 
I picked 8PM, after dinner. Mom had been bugging me about all the evenings I'd been spending out of the house until I finally spilled the beans about Ange, whereupon she came over all misty and kept looking at me like, my-little-boy's-growing-up. She wanted to meet Ange, and I used that as leverage, promising to bring her over the next night if I could "go to the movies" with Ange tonight. 
Ange's mom and sister were out again -- they weren't real stay-at-homes -- which left me and Ange alone in her room with her Xbox and mine. I unplugged one of her bedside screens and attached my Xbox to it so that we could both login at once. 
Both Xboxes were idle, logged into Clockwork Plunder. I was pacing. 
"It's going to be fine," she said. She glanced at her screen. "Patcheye Pete's Market has 600 players in it now!" We'd picked Patcheye Pete's because it was the market closest to the village square where new players spawned. If the reporters weren't already Clockwork Plunder players -- ha! -- then that's where they'd show up. In my blog post I'd asked people generally to hang out on the route between Patcheye Pete's and the spawn-gate and direct anyone who looked like a disoriented reporter over to Pete's. 
“You and your husband just come from the city?” inquired the landlady. 
“He’s not my husband,” replied Lexy, with a laugh. “I never set eyes on him before. There was only one taxi, and we were both looking for a hotel. The driver said you took boarders, and that’s how we happened to come together.” 
“I don’t take boarders much, ’cept in the summer time,” said Mrs. Royce. She was a stout, comfortable sort of creature, gray-haired, and very neat in her dark dress and clean white apron. She had a kindly, good-humored face, too, but she had a landlady’s eye. “People don’t come here much, this time of year,” she went on. “Nothing to bring ’em here.” 
These last words were a challenge to Lexy to explain her business, and she was prepared. 
“I passed through here the other day in a motor,” she said, “on my way to Adams Corners, and I thought it looked like such a nice, quiet place for me to work in. I’m a writer, you know, and I thought Wyngate would just suit me.” 
“I was born and raised out to Adams Corners,” said Mrs. Royce. “Guess there’s no one living out there that I don’t know.” 
“What’s the matter, miss?” 
“Nothing,” said Lexy. “I’m sorry if I startled you, Joe. I thought I’d get out here and slip into the house quietly, without disturbing any one.” 
Joe grinned sheepishly. 
“I’ve got kind of jumpy since—that,” he said. “Howsomever, come on, miss!” 
“Oh, I don’t mean to trouble you!” 
“I’m going to see you safe inside that there house!” Joe declared firmly. 
Grateful for his genuine kindness, Lexy made no further protest. Side by side they walked down the lane, their footsteps noiseless in the thick dust, and Joe opened the garden gate without a sound. 
“I thought perhaps I could climb up that tree and get in at my window,” Lexy whispered. 
“I’ll do it for you,” said Joe, “and come down and let you in by the back door.” 
He was up the tree like a cat. He went cautiously along a branch, until he could reach the roof of the shed with his toes. He dropped down on the roof, and Lexy saw him disappear into her room. She went to the back door. In a minute she heard the key turn inside, and the door opened. 
“There won’t be any change in Mrs. Quelton,” she said. “It would only be a waste of time.” 
It was not so much for that poor woman, who she feared was beyond hope, that she wanted the New York specialist, as for Captain Grey. It would help him so much to feel that something was being done, that some one was hurrying out here! 
“Might be more of a waste of time,” said Mr. Binz, “if some one was to come all the way out here after she—” 
“Oh, all right!” cried Lexy impatiently. Then suddenly she remembered. “They haven’t any telephone at the doctor’s house,” she said. 
“Suppose I go out there first, and see?” suggested Captain Grey. 
“No!” said Lexy. “Don’t!” 
But the idea impressed him as a good one, and go he would. 
“I’d rather see how she is, first,” he repeated. “If there’s no change, I’ll come back.” 
Lexy looked at Mr. Binz with an angry and reproachful frown, which the poor man did not understand. He had only wanted to give helpful advice. 
“Come on, then!” she said to Captain Grey. 
I didn’t know what shook me more—that Arthur seemed to be able to see the side of the woman who currently had him locked up pending brainwashing, or that he was including himself on the same ethical level as me. After he had come down on me for my relative immorality the other day, hearing him so insecure about his own inconsistencies of principle was vaguely shocking. 
Maybe that’s why I said what I said next. Maybe it was the impending certainty of my mind getting twisted into pretzels that made frank soul-baring suddenly more appealing. Or maybe I figured it didn’t matter what I said to Arthur anyway, as his mind was about to get twisted into pretzels, too. 
“Whatever your scales of judgment are, you’ll weigh on them a sight better than I will,” I admitted, my voice cracking a little. “You at least try. I...I survive.” I swallowed. “I’ve been thinking about it, and you were right, before. I don’t think a whole lot about the people I hurt, and killing someone who’s threatening me—it’s always been the smart thing to do. You pointed it out yourself—I would have killed you too, back at the motel.” I felt as if I were making a deathbed confession. Perhaps I was. “I don’t think I’m a very good person,” I added softly. 
“It’s through there!” she said, pointing at the blank wall. “It’s a false wall!” She thumped it but it was solid and stony. Tears pricked her eyes. “These clothes!” she said, desperately, plucking at her shirt and trousers. “He printed them for me! He has hardened logic printers on the other side of that wall. He could win the war!” 
The wizard shook his head and smiled at her again. His eyes glittered. “Oh, if only that were true. To win this war—” 
She looked imploringly at Ana. Ana looked away. 
The old hero shook the wizard’s hand with his one remaining hand. “I’m sorry to have disturbed you, comrade.” 
“Nonsense,” the wizard said. “Anything for the city.” 
“Come along,” the old hero said. “Let’s leave these people in peace.” 
Trover let himself be led silently into the street and stayed at her side even when she let go of his hand to silently palm her mother’s sidearm. 
“Your mother would be ashamed of you,” the old hero said. “She wouldn’t have wasted the city’s time on her fantasies and vendettas.” 
“I have a lot of friends who come and see me now and again. I hope you’ll come back.” 
“How come your place is like the war never happened?” 
“I’m the wizard, that’s why,” he said. “I can make magic.” 
His robots tied up her extra clothes in waterproof grip sheets for her, then helped her into a warm slicker with a hood. “Tell your mother that you met someone from the city who fed you and gave you a change of clothes,” he said, holding open the door. He’d explained to her where to go from there to get out to the old shopping street and from there she could manage on her own, especially since he’d given her one of his little pea-lights to carry with her. 
“You’re not from the city,” she said. 
“You got me,” he said. “So tell her you met a wizard.” 
She thought about what her mother would say to that, especially when that was the answer to the question Where have you been? “I’ll tell her I met someone from the city,” she said. 
“You’re a clever girl,” he said. 
One week after her father died, Valentine stopped carrying water. 
“Not a chance,” I heard someone say from above me, and then strong hands were under my arms, lifting me. “Up you get.” 
“You’re strong,” I slurred out, but wondered why he was lifting me sideways when gravity was pulling downward. I lurched. 
“Jesus, Mary, and Joseph!” The hands caught me before I hit the floor again. “Girl, look at me. What did you take?” 
“My medicine,” I said automatically. That was the right answer, wasn’t it? 
“Good God,” I heard Arthur say grimly, from somewhere northwest of me. “Let’s get you back lying down.” 
I found myself back on my couch covered by a blanket, vaguely aware of Arthur moving around my apartment going through some of my things. He came back just as the shiny was starting to dim a little further. “Need more,” I mumbled. “It should be prettier.” 
“You’re not getting any more of anything, sweetheart. Except water.” 
I could feel a sob welling up; a tantrum to crown all childish tantrums nucleating in my chest. “But I want the pretty!” I insisted. 
“Well, I actually, um . . .” His face grew red as he took her hand, 
but he looked more mortified than happy. “It’s awesome to meet you. I really admire your work.” 
“You are so brave to do this.” 
“No. I blew it. I’m sorry, Zen. They basically said I’m not old enough to be a snitch.” 
“Seriously?” I asked, wondering why I hadn’t seen this com- ing. It’s not like I don’t hear people tell me I’m do young to do stuff all the time. 
Sarah frowned. It made me wish I had eyebrows as thick as hers. They looked ferocious. “How curious that a system that tries children as adults when it’s convenient won’t take them seriously when they’re volunteering to help the authorities.” 
“Damn,” Tyler said. “We should have realized ... I mean, no offense, Nikko, but we should have done this with adults.” 
“That’s stupid,” I blurted out. “He’s as good an actor as anyone else.” 
“That’s not what Tyler meant,” Ian said. “We shouldn’t have involved kids in this. Not given the risks.” 
“This whole thing was my idea,” I said. “You think we don’t know the risks? It should be our choice.” 
I used the Xnet for almost everything now. I'd set up a fake email address through the Pirate Party, a Swedish political party that hated Internet surveillance and promised to keep their mail accounts a secret from everyone, even the cops. I accessed it strictly via Xnet, hopping from one neighbor's Internet connection to the next, staying anonymous -- I hoped -- all the way to Sweden. I wasn't using w1n5ton anymore. If Benson could figure it out, anyone could. My new handle, come up with on the spur of the moment, was M1k3y, and I got a lot of email from people who heard in chat rooms and message boards that I could help them troubleshoot their Xnet configurations and connections. 
I missed Harajuku Fun Madness. The company had suspended the game indefinitely. They said that for "security reasons" they didn't think it would be a good idea to hide things and then send people off to find them. What if someone thought it was a bomb? What if someone put a bomb in the same spot? 
What if I got hit by lightning while walking with an umbrella? Ban umbrellas! Fight the menace of lightning! 
She set it down on the pavement and brought her heel down on it hard, breaking it into dozens of fragments. "All the pebbles we'll ever need," she said, picking them up and handing them to Damian. 
He put his arm around her shoulders and squeezed. "I'm awfully fond of you, Counselor," he said, kissing her earlobe. His breath tickled her ear and made her think of the crazy animal new-relationship-energy sex they'd had the night before -- she was still limping, and so was he -- and she shivered. 
"You too, steakypaste," she said. "Now, introduce me to all of your relatives." 
"Introduce you?" He groaned. "You don't think I remember all of their names, do you?" 
Afterward, they formed a long convoy back to the nearest family member's house -- a great aunt? a second cousin? Damian was vague -- navigating by keeping everyone in sight, snaking along the traffic jam that appeared to have engulfed the entire state, if not the whole coast. 
"You made that law, yes? We've all heard about you." This was the sixth time someone had said this to her since they'd arrived and Damian had made her a plate of blintzes, smoked salmon, fresh...  salad with raspberry dressing, then had been spirited away into an endless round of cheek-pinching and intense questioning. She'd been left on her own, and after having a couple of grave conversations with small children about the merits of different toys, she'd been latched upon by one of the Relatives and passed from hand to hand. 
Now as the Princess walked daily in the green forest, hearing the wind singing in the branches and seeing the sunlight filter through the lattice-work of green leaves, there came unto her thoughts that had lain asleep in the stifling air of the cottage and the weariness of guiding the plough. And by and by she took a needle from her girdle and pricked the thoughts on the leaves of the trees and sent them into the air to float hither and thither. And it came to pass that people began to pick them up, and holding them against the sun, to read what was written on them, and this was because the simple little words on the leaves were only, after all, a part of one of the King's messages, such as the Fairy Godmother dropped continually from her golden chariot. 
But the miracle of the story lies deeper than all this. 
Whenever the Princess pricked the words upon the leaves she added a thought of her Fairy Godmother, and folding it close within, sent the leaf out on the breeze to float hither and thither and fall where it would. And many other little Princesses felt the same impulse and did the same thing. And as nothing is ever lost in the King's Dominion, so these thoughts and wishes and hopes, being full of love and gratitude, had no power to die, but took unto themselves other shapes and lived on forever. They cannot be seen, our vision is too weak; nor heard, our hearing is too dull; but they can sometimes be felt, and we know not what force is stirring our hearts to nobler aims. 
The platitudes curdled in my head. 
Jesus Christ. This was supposed to be an easy job. Rescue the kid, get her out of the country, be home in time for dinner. 
Nobody should have died on this one, least of all two people sitting at a computer looking things up for me. 
My grip tightened on the steering wheel until my fingers hurt. 
I studied Courtney out of the corner of my eye. She was hugging her knees to herself, her shoulders shaking, her ponytail falling across her and hiding her face. 
She was involved in this somehow. 
“What aren’t you telling me?” The words came out too harsh. I didn’t care. “Those men at your place were looking for something. What was it?” 
She raised a blotchy, tear-streaked face to look at me. “I don’t—I don’t know. I swear I don’t.” 
Right. 
My client might be lying to me. My client, who was already on the run not only from the authorities, but from a drug cartel who wanted her dead, government men in dark suits, a dirty cop, and some unknown player willing to commit arson and murder to cover its tracks. 
His bathroom was clean and neat and there were six toothbrushes beside the sink in a holder. 
“Who else lives here?” she said, coming out in her new clothes (the bra felt really weird). 
“I have a lot of friends who come and see me now and again. I hope you’ll come back.” 
“How come your place is like the war never happened?” 
“I’m the wizard, that’s why,” he said. “I can make magic.” 
His robots tied up her extra clothes in waterproof grip sheets for her, then helped her into a warm slicker with a hood. “Tell your mother that you met someone from the city who fed you and gave you a change of clothes,” he said, holding open the door. He’d explained to her where to go from there to get out to the old shopping street and from there she could manage on her own, especially since he’d given her one of his little pea-lights to carry with her. 
“You’re not from the city,” she said. 
“You got me,” he said. “So tell her you met a wizard.” 
She thought about what her mother would say to that, especially when that was the answer to the question Where have you been? “I’ll tell her I met someone from the city,” she said. 
I smiled at the women and used some...  thanks. 
They beamed as though they understood me. Who could say? But they'd been intensely interested in watching me eat, even more than Marcelina. 
Work on her. Now. 
"Marcelina." I turned to her, only vaguely noticing she hadn't had a bite. "Do you understand why Dr. Goddard moved me down to the operating room yesterday? There in the clinic? What did he tell you?" 
"He said it was for special tests." Her voice was gentle through the gloom. "You were very . . . sleepy. You must have been very, very tired. But he told me something in your blood work was unusual, so he had me bring you down for a pelvic exam. I gave you a sedative"—she was pointing at the Band-Aid still on my arm—"the way we always do. But then he said you were fine." 
"Do you realize he did things to my body I didn't agree to?" I studied her trusting Mayan face and tried to get a sense of how much she knew about what was going on. That was when I first became sure of an increasing disquiet in her eyes, as she kept glancing away. Why was she so un­comfortable talking about Alex Goddard? "And I think he did some of those same things to Sarah." 
I saw it all from my phone, in the remains of the sitting room, watching it on the screen and wondering how, just how anyone could look at our little flat and our terrible, manky estate and mistake it for the home of an organized crime kingpin. They took the printer away, of course, and displayed it like a trophy for the newsies. Its little shrine in the kitchenette seemed horribly empty. When I roused myself and picked up the flat and rescued my peeping poor tweetybird, I put a blender there. It was made out of printed parts, so it would only last a month before I’d need to print new bearings and other moving parts. Back then, I could take apart and reassemble anything that could be printed. 
By the time I turned eighteen, they were ready to let Da out of prison. I’d visited him three times—on my tenth birthday, on his fiftieth, and when Ma died. It had been two years since I’d last seen him and he was in bad shape. A prison fight had left him with a limp, and he looked over his shoulder so often it was like he had a tic. I was embarrassed when the minicab dropped us off in front of the estate, and tried to keep my distance from this ruined, limping skeleton as we went inside and up the stairs. 
He tracked them on sonar as they descended slowly. The woman—he called her Janet—needed to equalize more often than the man, pinching her nose and blowing. Robbie liked to watch the low-rez feed off of their cameras as they hit the reef. It was coming up sunset, and the sky was...  with its light. 
“We warned you,” the reef said. Something in its tone—just modulated pressure waves through the water, a simple enough trick, especially with the kind of hardware that had been raining down on the ocean that spring. But the tone held an unmistakable air of menace. 
Something deep underwater went whoomph and Robbie grew alarmed. “Asimov!” he cursed, and trained his sonar on the reef wall frantically. The human-shells had disappeared in a cloud of rising biomass, which he was able to resolve eventually...  
A moment later, they were floating on the surface. Lifeless, brightly colored, their beaks in a perpetual idiot’s grin. Their eyes stared into the bloody sunset. 
Among them were the human-shells, surfaced and floating with their BCDs inflated to keep them there, following perfect dive-procedure. A chop had kicked up and the waves were...  to a meter and a half in length—into the divers, pounding them remorselessly, knocking them under. The human-shells were taking it with equanimity—you couldn’t panic when you were mere uninhabited meat—but they couldn’t take it forever. Robbie dropped his oars and rowed hard for them, swinging around so they came up alongside his gunwales. 
"Just a hint of the fall styles, mother," she said, slipping the stem of a gorgeous red and yellow sapling between the mattress and the foot of the bed. "This was leaning over the pool, and I was afraid it would be vain if I left it there too long looking at its beautiful reflection, so I took it away from danger; isn't it wonderful? How I wish I could carry one to poor aunt Miranda to-day! There's never a flower in the brick house when I'm away." 
It was a marvelous morning. The sun had climbed into a world that held in remembrance only a succession of golden days and starlit nights. The air was fragrant with ripening fruit, and there was a mad little bird on a tree outside the door nearly bursting his throat with joy of living. He had forgotten that summer was over, that winter must ever come; and who could think of cold winds, bare boughs, or frozen streams on such a day? A painted moth came in at the open window and settled on the tuft of brilliant leaves. Aurelia heard the bird and looked from the beauty of the glowing bush to her tall, splendid daughter, standing like young Spring with golden Autumn in her arms. 
Checker leaned back and crossed his arms. “All right, it seems like you’ve got an idea. Let’s hear it.” 
“We don’t make them give up Halliday. We make them take me.” 
“ What?” 
“We convince them somehow that she needs help. That I wrote part of the proof. Whatever. You drop whatever electronic hints will make them think that.” I ignored the edge of recklessness limning my brain. This plan was perfect. “It’ll work. I can pass muster.” 
“Of course you can; that’s not the point!” 
“What is the point, then?” 
“That—that you’re trying to offer yourself up as bait to people who nearly killed you and Arthur just this morning, twice, and have already kidnapped another person and what would make you think they’d want to keep you alive once they’d finished with you anyway? This is a terrible idea!” 
“Come on, have you not met me?” I said. 
“What—I don’t—” 
“No one can keep me in a box. They catch me, they’ll take me to Halliday, I’ll get us both out. Easy as pie.” 
“No. No, no, no, no, no. I don’t mean to rain on your frankly impossible skill set here, but even you can’t always bust your way out in a second once you get locked in a cell. You’ve admitted it before! There are so many ways this can go wrong, starting with, what if we make you a lure as bait and they just kill you instead of taking you in? Or what if they kill Professor Sonya because they think they don’t need her once they have you? Or what if—” 
I didn’t text Checker to tell him I was coming. Instead, I busted into the Hole hard enough that the door banged against the computer towers behind it, the metal bruising the paint. 
“Cas,” Checker said coldly, sitting back from his keyboard and crossing his arms, a set look on his face. 
For some reason I hadn’t expected him to be upset with me. I’d expected him still to be in irritating pleading mode about looking into my past, worried and pestering. I was the one with the righteous anger about how he dared violate my privacy and my life; he was the one ignoring my feelings—right? 
I suddenly remembered how he’d left my place earlier. How stiff he’d sounded. 
How much that had hurt, for some reason I couldn’t explain. 
The solid wall of fury I’d built up against him wavered. 
I pulled out the note from my jacket pocket and threw it on one of his keyboards. “Here.” 
He made no move to pick it up. “What is that?” 
“A note. One I found, addressed to me.” Sort of. 
He reached over and unfolded the paper. Read it. Looked back at me. 
“And then what?” Halliday’s dark skin had a slightly greenish cast in the fluorescent light. “We’ll never get past them. We’ll die.” 
“Aren’t you a party pooper,” I said. “Professor, I can protect you. I promise.” 
“You can barely stand up on your own.” The words could have been mean, but instead her voice was empty and factual. 
Her skepticism made me even more determined. “I told you, it’s not that bad. I’ll deal with it. Besides, what choice do we have? You’d rather stay here?” 
She didn’t answer, just pressed her lips together for a moment. “Where’s Arthur?” she asked finally. 
“With the NSA. I beat them to finding you.” I bared my teeth in something like a smile. 
“What? We should wait for them, then!” 
I knew Halliday’s opinion didn’t matter, but her reaction was still like a spike in my chest. “We don’t know they’ll find us,” I argued. “The guys who’ve got us are good, maybe good enough to evade the NSA, and this situation could go very bad at any moment. What if they decide to kill us and rabbit? What if the Feds do track us down, and these guys blow us all to kingdom come to avoid capture? You really want to sit on our hands and hope the government rides out of the woods on white horses?” 
He was barely conscious, so this time I'd have to do it myself. I glanced around at his bag. 
"Is your Swiss still in there?" 
"I think . . ." His mind seemed to be wandering. Then he gave a weak thumbs-up. 
I went over and zipped it open. Be there, I prayed. We really could use a break. 
I rummaged through telephoto lenses and film canisters and underwear. Then I found it, zipped inside a water-repel­lent baggie and stuck in a side pouch. 
I snapped it open and went to work, him watching me, his head nodding as he struggled to stay conscious. 
The main difference between this time and Haiti was, here I didn't know what was on the other side and I was having hallucinations of multicolored snakes. 
"You're doing great," he said finally, seeming to come a bit more alive. 
And I was. Out with the screws, off with the knob, in with the small blade, and click. Maybe we just think men's me­chanical skills are genetically hard-wired. Maybe it's all a secret plot to elicit awe. 
I closed the knife and shoved it back into his bag, then turned to him. 
The news was terrible. There were so many reasons to be scared. American soldiers were dying all over the world. Not just soldiers, either. National guardsmen, who thought they were signing up to help rescue people from hurricanes, stationed overseas for years and years of a long and endless war. 
I flipped around the 24-hour news networks, one after another, a parade of officials telling us why we should be scared. A parade of photos of bombs going off around the world. 
I kept flipping and found myself looking at a familiar face. It was the guy who had come into the truck and spoken to Severe-Haircut woman when I was chained up in the back. Wearing a military uniform. The caption identified him as Major General Graeme Sutherland, Regional Commander, DHS. 
"I hold in my hands actual literature on offer at the so-called concert in Dolores Park last weekend." He held up a stack of pamphlets. There'd been lots of pamphleteers there, I remembered. Wherever you got a group of people in San Francisco, you got pamphlets. 
The meditation balls stopped. The piercing gaze leveled itself at me. 
Oh, Jesus. How would I have known that name? “The NSA mentioned—they tried to grab me. They thought I was working for you,” I invented rapidly. 
The eyes stayed on me a moment longer, evaluating, and then the meditation balls started up again. 
I let out a slow breath. 
“I have many names,” the man allowed with a sneer. “The United States National Security Agency and their stupid games. They think they have so much knowledge.” He said something to one of his men in a different language, and they laughed. 
“Yeah,” I said, too relieved to keep my mouth shut like a proper kidnap victim. “Stupid. They tried to offer me a deal.” 
“And you refused? That seems unlikely.” The Lancer evaluated me like a bird of prey considering the rodent that will be its next meal. 
“They weren’t offering enough,” I said recklessly. I probably should’ve thought through how I wanted to play this. 
The Lancer raised bushy eyebrows. “I see.” Clack, clack, clack. “How do you like this offer: you help us, we won’t kill you.” 
“He’s bunking with me,” Ian said, glancing into the back seat. 
“He hitched a ride up from Chicago with a truck driver. Didn’t have any place to stay, just counted on it that things would work out. Which usually they do for him.” 
“You met him before?” 
“I’ve known him since he was twelve. He took a class from me once, when he was actually younger than you, though he dropped out before the semester was over. He’s brilliant, but he doesn’t have much interest in following rules or filling out forms, and he thinks money is stupid. That makes it pretty impossible to com- plete a college degree the way we do things, but he learns whatever he finds interesting enough to figure out and picks up enough freelance work to put together a living. He travels constantly and has friends everywhere, even though he can be kind of a jerk sometimes.” 
“I noticed.” 
Ian glanced at me. “Being accepted to MIT at fourteen can mess up your grasp of social codes, but he’s a good guy. Just awk- ward, sometimes. Which way to your house?” 
Mrs. Cobb had been looking for this question all the evening and dreading some allusion to her favorite as gifted in prayer. She had taken an instantaneous and illogical dislike to the Rev. Mr. Burch in the afternoon because he called upon Rebecca to "lead." She had seen the pallor creep into the girl's face, the hunted look in her eyes, and the trembling of the lashes on her cheeks, and realized the ordeal through which she was passing. Her prejudice against the minister had relaxed under his genial talk and presence, but feeling that Mrs. Burch was about to tread on dangerous ground, she hastily asked her if one had to change cars many times going from Riverboro to Syria. She felt that it was not a particularly appropriate question, but it served her turn. 
Deacon Milliken, meantime, said to Miss Sawyer, "Mirandy, do you know who Rebecky reminds me of?" 
"I can guess pretty well," she replied. 
"Then you've noticed it too! I thought at first, seein' she favored her father so on the outside, that she was the same all through; but she ain't, she's like your father, Israel Sawyer." 
“What? No way.” I couldn’t close my mouth for a minute, I was so surprised. I knew her from the Group. Only until now I thought I knew him. And he was a lot younger. And not living on a farm in Wisconsin. 
The corners of her mouth tugged down further than I’d seen them go. I almost thought she’d crack a real smile that showed teeth and everything. “Surprise.” 
“I always thought ... I mean. Wow.” 
“You weren’t exactly my idea of Shad either.” 
I looked over at Wheeze. He had dozed off in the raggedy- armed chair by the stove. I wouldn’t have minded too much if he found out about the Group. But it was mine, in a way that I couldn’t explain. All of these overlapping parts of my life were getting confusing. 
“Good to know that problem I was having with the computer was just mechanical. I was afraid it was the government messing with me.” 
“They wouldn’t want to stop you from using your computer. 
They’d install a keylogger or a Trojan so they could watch every- thing you did.” She frowned. Smiles might not be her style, but frowns were. “I doubt they could, though. This is a pretty tight system you got here.” 
both inside and out. 
"Look," Kilgore says, snorting. "Ray has a secret admirer." 
Ray picks up the ring that has rolled closest to him, holds it between thumb and forefinger and examines it against the overhead light. Meteoric stone, he supposes. Inscribed with incantations. He shakes his head and jams the thin, cool band onto his right hand. 
Kilgore continues to shake the box, but nothing else falls out. For good measure, he turns it over so he can peer inside. "But she didn't leave a note. That's pretty rude." 
Rodriguez rolls one of the rings around in his palm, examining it from various angles, obviously intrigued. 
"Put it on," Ray says. "Both of you. Pick one and put it on." 
Kilgore shuffles through the pile, finding one that looks wide enough to fit his stubby fingers. "I guess it's more interesting than a unit patch. " 
Ray scoops up the ones that remain and shovels them into his pocket. 
"What are they for?" Rodriguez asks. 
"For protection. "  Before Kilgore can come up with a witty rejoinder: "From what?" 
“I’ll be fine. Look after the professor. And tell the DHS if they try to bury either of you in a hole, I’ll destroy them.” 
“We aren’t the bad guys, Ms. Russell,” Agent Jones said beside me, an odd expression on her face, and then she was gone. 
Arthur tried to argue with me, but I insisted, and he finally gave in and helped me out to his car, where Pilar jumped out and came around to support me on the other side. “Cas! Oh my God. What happened? Are you okay?” 
“No,” I said. 
“Call Doc Washington,” said Arthur to Pilar. “She treated Cas before. Tell her what happened. You guys gonna be all right?” 
“Give me a gun,” I said. 
Pilar pulled out her little CZ and handed it to me. Keeping it pointed down, I noticed. Arthur must have talked to her. 
I took the safety off and tucked it in my belt. “We’ll be fine. There’s nobody after us anymore, unless the NSA decides to live up to their reputation.” 
“Think they got what they wanted,” Arthur said softly. “Ain’t think they’re interested in you. You’re not important to ’em.” 
"What a shame," she said. "Where did you come down from?" 
"Toronto," he said. 
"Lord, not another snowbird!" she said, good-naturedly. "Seems like half of Canada's down here! They come here to get away from the winter, then they complain about the heat! What do they expect, that's what I want to know! Was your flight good?" 
"It was fine," Sean said, bemusedly. "A little dull, but fine." 
"So, you're here for a few weeks," Adele said. 
"Yes. Working," Sean said. 
"Nice work if you can get it!" Adele said, and clattered her dentures again. "I moved here, oh, five years ago. To be near my boy. In the hospital. I used to work, but I'm retired. Used to work at a dairy -- answering the phones! You tell people you used to work in a dairy, they...  Ross, he gives me an annual rate for my room. It's better than living in one of those gated places! Lord! How much shuffleboard can a body stand?" 
"Your son is sick?" Sean said. 
"Not sick, no," Adele said. "You wouldn't believe the roaches you get down here! Old Ross fumigates regular, but Florida roaches don't seem to care. I've lived in New York, and I've seen some pretty big roaches in my day, but not like these. Like cats! My boy, Ethan, he'd clean and clean our apartment in New York, quiet as you please, a good boy. Then he'd see a roach and whim-wham, he'd be talking, joking, skipping and running. Old Ross says there's nothing he can do -- he says, 'Adele, this is Florida , and the roaches were here long before us, and they'll be here long after, and nothing we do is going to keep them away.' That's all fine and good, but let me tell you, I've never seen a roach in the Home when I was visiting Ethan. They know how to keep them out. Maybe it's all the shouting. Lord, but they do shout!" 
“But you said you hoped we’d work with you—you all,” I protested, knowing I’d lost the argument before I even began. 
“Yes, we do, after you turn away from all of that. Dawna will help you.” She was smiling again. It was eerie. 
“What if I already have?” I tried in some desperation. “Turned away from the dark side, and all that? You’ve explained it, uh, really well, and I, I want to change and come and join you. I’ve seen the light, I swear. Will you let us out?” 
The words sounded so cringingly insincere to my own ears that I wasn’t surprised when Courtney laughed gently. Apparently being brainwashed didn’t make her stupid. “When it’s for real, when you really do want to join us, I know we’d love to have you. I’d love to have you. And Dawna, she’s so forgiving, and—well, she’s really the best sister ever.” Her smile had gone all glowing and hopeful. “I think she’s going to come and talk to you pretty soon. She’ll be able to help you. You’ll see. I’ll come visit you after?” 
“Sure,” I managed. I wanted to rage at her, to lose my temper, but all I could muster up was pity. Pity for Courtney, and fear for myself. 
Slowly, Becker rises. He tucks the pen in his trouser pocket. "It's being made part of your assignment as of now." 
"You don't have the authority to pull me off my current mission, and I don't have time to do both." 
"Time or inclination?" 
"Pick whichever one makes you happy. I don't care so long as you just go away." 
Becker jabs a finger at him and knuckles his features, a bulldog look. "You said yourself that you've all but confirmed this ship is clean. You're wasting your time chasing after terrorists. You have the expertise to catch the animal that did this, but more importantly, you've got the freedom to poke around anonymously without freaking the passengers out because sec-os are banging on their doors raising a ruckus and all but accusing them of turning child rearing into a blood sport." 
"Rich, honestly, I don't have the training to do this job. We're two weeks out from New Holyoke, and with a learning curve as steep as the one you're asking me to undertake, the chances that I'll be able to make any kind of suitable progress are close to nil. It's a bad idea." 
They slunk out of the room like bad puppies and I felt like a tool. I typed fast. 
"I got away, Zeb. And I'm on the run. I need all the help I can get. I want to end this now." I remembered to take Masha's phone out of my pocket and tickle it to keep it from going to sleep. 
They let me use the shower, gave me a change of clothes, a new backpack with half their earthquake kit in it -- energy bars, medicine, hot and cold packs, and an old sleeping-bag. They even slipped a spare Xbox Universal already loaded with ParanoidXbox on it into there. That was a nice touch. I had to draw the line at a flaregun. 
I kept on checking my email to see if Zeb had replied. I answered the fan mail. I answered the mail from the press. I deleted the hate mail. I was half-expecting to see something from Masha, but chances were she was halfway to LA by now, her fingers hurt, and in no position to type. I tickled her phone again. 
They encouraged me to take a nap and for a brief, shameful moment, I got all paranoid like maybe these guys were thinking of turning me in once I was asleep. Which was idiotic -- they could have turned me in just as easily when I was awake. I just couldn't compute the fact that they thought so much of me. I had known, intellectually, that there were people who would follow M1k3y. I'd met some of those people that morning, shouting BITE BITE BITE and vamping it up at Civic Center. But these two were more personal. They were just nice, goofy guys, they coulda been any of my friends back in the days before the Xnet, just two pals who palled around having teenage adventures. They'd volunteered to join an army, my army. I had a responsibility to them. Left to themselves, they'd get caught, it was only a matter of time. They were too trusting. 
"I was actually interested in neither," I said, feeling my sinuses about to close down permanently. "I was actually hoping to find out about your adoption service, how it works." 
"Ah," he said, his eyes shifting from intense scrutiny to somewhere lost in the ozone, "that's not something I handle personally. In any case, you first must come and participate in our program. Then, if we fail to achieve your objectives, we can take the adoption matter under consideration." 
"I think I'd like to hear about it anyway." I took a deep breath, again groping for air. "For instance, where and how you get the children you place." 
"I see," he said calmly, as though my question were about the weather. Then he secured his coat tighter. "I'm thinking, how would you like to take a short walk? Down to the river. We could get to know each other better." 
I just nodded, not looking forward to the harsh wind that would assault my inflamed sinuses. But maybe I was getting somewhere. 
As we started out through the stone archway and into the rear garden, which seemed to extend for acres, he continued. 
He looked down at me for a second and then nodded. “Hey, Doc.” He cleared his throat. “Can you tell us any more about who would have known about Sonya’s proof? ’S not like she was palling around with criminals. How’d this get out?” 
“It’s easy to listen to us, you know,” said Martinez, still concentrating on arranging her stone animals. “Phones, email. You could write a program that scans for keywords quite easily, I think. It’s not paranoia, it’s just fact; you accept it and live in the modern world or you don’t.” 
Arthur had stepped over next to her while she talked. “Doc. Are some of your books missing?” He gestured at the lower shelves. Martinez had picked up most of the books, but the bottom shelves were still bare, a light outline of dust showing where their contents had sat. 
“‘Missing’ is such a poorly-defined word,” said Martinez after a slight hesitation. “Nothing is missing if I say it isn’t, or everything is missing if I say it is. I’ve been reorganizing.” 
“Doc,” said Arthur inexorably. “The men who took Sonya. Did they take some of your work, too?” 
I'd heard of coming clean before but I'd never understood what it meant until I did it. Holding in the secret had dirtied me, soiled my spirit. It had made me afraid and ashamed. It had made me into all the things that Ange said I was. 
Dad sat stiff as a ramrod the whole time, his face carved of stone. When I handed him the note, he read it twice and then set it down carefully. 
He shook his head and stood up and headed for the front door. 
"Where are you going?" Mom asked, alarmed. 
"I need a walk," was all he managed to gasp, his voice breaking. 
We stared awkwardly at each other, Mom and me, and waited for him to come home. I tried to imagine what was going on in his head. He'd been such a different man after the bombings and I knew from Mom that what had changed him were the days of thinking I was dead. He'd come to believe that the terrorists had nearly killed his son and it had made him crazy. 
Crazy enough to do whatever the DHS asked, to line up like a good little sheep and let them control him, drive him. 
This is the proverbial bombshell, a sub-nuclear blast that jitters Ray right off his personal foundations. He stares at Becker, who props his elbows on the table and his chin on his knuckles and stares right back like a  man who can pull out secrets and fling them into the air all day long. It is also all the things Becker would not tell him at the crime scene. 
"They never let me see the official report," Ray muses at last, his voice quiet. "Strange, don't you think? 
Considering I'm the only one from my squad who made it out, the only one who could have written it accurately. They never even asked me to file a report. Just made the whole thing go away, turned it into a black bag, I assumed. But I guess they had to notify families and account for equipment. Easier to just half-ass it and bury it under a mountain of paper." Ray pauses, not wanting to say what logically comes next. "You got me into this because of Ba'dai?" 
"Given the recent activities on the Lilaiken front, all incidents of this nature are immediately reported along the command net, back to FSA and related intelligence agencies. Because of your presence here, part of the contact list is the CIU. Lieutenant Colonel John Holcomb said you were uniquely qualified to handle this assignment. He said we should ask you to cross reference the significant details with your experience at Ba'dai, in case these incidents are related." 
Finally, the access hatch opened with a puff of stale air and a tupperware burp as its gasket popped. We both reached for the large, insulated handle at the same time, our fingers brushing each other with a crackle of (thankfully metaphorical) electricity. We toggled it together and there was an instantaneous chorus of insistent chirruping as the backup power on each server spun up and sent a desperate shutdown message to the machines it supported. 
We sprinted across campus, the power-station door slamming shut behind us with a mechanical clang -- the electromagnets that controlled its closure were no longer powered up. 
Heat shimmered in a haze around BIGMAC's lab. The chillers didn't have independent power-supplies; they would have gone off the instant we hit the kill-switch. Now BIGMAC's residual power was turning his lab into a concrete pizza-oven. The door-locks had failed safe, locking the magnetic closures away from each other, so we were able to simply swing the door open and rush into the sweltering room. 
I didn’t comment on the irony of that. 
She swallowed the pills dry and stumbled over to the pallet in the corner. “Where are we?” she slurred, the drugs already kicking in. 
“A safe place,” I said. “I have a few around the city. Keep them stocked, in case I need to lie low.” 
She cocked her head at me for a long moment, smearing her sleeve across her face again, her eyes glazed. “You’re scary.” 
Her frankness took me aback. “You hired me to get you out of all this, remember?” 
“Yeah, I guess,” she mumbled. “I wish...” She was already starting to slump into a doze, her exhaustion combining with the pills. 
“What do you wish?” Maybe, with her half-conscious state, I could get her to tell me something she otherwise wouldn’t have. 
“I wish I didn’t need someone like you,” she said, and her eyes slid closed. 
Yeah. Sure. I was the bad guy here. 
I left my client a docile, snoozing form on the blankets, grateful for the respite. My stupid body was starting to feel the last thirty hours, but I rummaged through the drawers again and...  for a shower and a quick nap, but first I needed to see if I could put together what Anton had found—what he might have died for. 
I jerked awake. I was on a thin mattress in the shithole apartment I’d driven to, dirty and bloodied bandages scattered on the floor from redressing my accumulating injuries. My hand, back, and ribs had started to throb, but I could tell that wasn’t what had woken me. 
Sleep had never been particularly restful for me, but in the last two years the nightmares had become worse and worse. More detailed and more crippling. When I wasn’t on the job, I couldn’t hope to stay asleep for more than half an hour before I woke, tangled and sweating and hyperventilating. Getting blackout drunk was the only thing that helped. 
And now I was having trouble while working. Work had always focused me, kept me sane, but now... 
I wasn’t stupid; I knew why it was happening. Two years ago was when we’d gone up against Pithica, when a psychic had rooted through my brain like it was her own personal rummage sale. I didn’t think she had taken any particular care not to break anything. 
It was what it was. Just something I had to deal with now, I supposed. 
As we passed through the door and into the vestibule of the building, I glimpsed a cluster of Maya women and chil­dren crowded into a brilliantly lit reception area. Goddard smiled and waved at them, and several nodded back, timor­ously and with enormous reverence. They were being at­tended by a dark-eyed, attractive Maya woman in a blue uniform—the name lettered on her blouse was Marcelina— who was holding a tray of vials and hypodermic needles. She was pure indigena , all of five feet tall, with broad cheek­bones and deep-set penetrating eyes. Unlike the other women in the room, however, there was no air of resignation about her. She was full of authority, a palpable inner fire. 
"One of my most successful programs here"—he nodded a greeting to her—"is to provide free vaccinations and gen­eral health resources for the villages in this part of the Peten Department." 
"I thought USAID already had public-health projects in Guatemala." The sight deeply depressed me. They all looked so poignant, the women with their shabby huipils and lined faces, the children even more disheartening, sad waifs with runny noses and watery eyes. 
“Never,” he replied agreeably. “It can never be anything but a guess, as I said, based upon probabilities. Human senses, human judgment, human reason, are all pitifully liable to error.” 
Lexy was silent for a time, thinking over this. 
“Maybe you’re right,” she said slowly, “about the senses, and judgment, and reason. Perhaps their evidence isn’t always to be trusted; but there’s something else.” 
“Something else?” he repeated. “Something else? And what may that be?” 
Lexy looked up at him. There was a smile on his heavy, pallid face, aloof and contemptuous; but she was chiefly concerned just then in trying to put into words her own firm conviction, more for her own benefit than for his. It was not reason that had brought her here to look for Caroline, it was not reason that sustained her. 
“There’s something else,” she said again, with a frown. “There’s a way of knowing things without reason. It’s—I don’t know just how to put it, but it’s a thing beyond reason.” 
He laughed, and she thought she had never heard a more unpleasant laugh. 
"Of course not. But when young people are brought under the influence of our country's enemies, it's easy for them to end up over their heads. Terrorists would love to recruit a fifth column to fight the war on the home front for them. If these were my children, I'd be gravely concerned." 
Another reporter chimed in. "Surely this is just an open air concert, General? They were hardly drilling with rifles." 
The General produced a stack of photos and began to hold them up. "These are pictures that officers took with infra-red cameras before moving in." He held them next to his face and paged through them one at a time. They showed people dancing really rough, some people getting crushed or stepped on. Then they moved into sex stuff by the trees, a girl with three guys, two guys necking together. "There were children as young as ten years old at this event. A deadly cocktail of drugs, propaganda and music resulted in dozens of injuries. It's a wonder there weren't any deaths." 
I switched the TV off. They made it look like it had been a riot. If my parents thought I'd been there, they'd have strapped me to my bed for a month and only let me out afterward wearing a tracking collar. 
Which I did. The main problem was, I didn't know exactly where Sarah was. 
"Is there anybody there who could help you?" he asked when I'd finished. 
"I'm not hopeful." I paused. "Listen, can you get your hands on a gun or guns?" 
"What are you . . . Don't even think about it! That's the best way to guarantee we all get killed. I'm not taking on the Guatemalan Armed Forces. And you're not either. We've got to keep this very low-tech. The dark and the rain, that's what we use. They don't shoot back." 
At that moment I wanted nothing more than to shoot Alex Goddard. I'd have done it if I'd had the chance. Happily. But I knew Steve was right. 
"Okay, look, what time?" 
"We'll try to set down about, say—" 
There was a crackle as the yellow diodes on the phone erupted in a high-pitched whistle, cutting the connection. 
No! My God, had somebody been listening in? 
So when exactly was he coming? Around dark? That would probably be about eight o'clock. Or maybe nine . . . 
I was closing the phone case when I heard a sound from outside, as though someone had passed the door, then come back to listen. 
"You all got your wifinders?" I said. 
Darryl and Van had phones with built-in wifinders, while Jolu, being too cool to carry a phone bigger than his pinky finger, had a separate little directional fob. 
"OK, fan out and see what we see. You're looking for a sharp drop off in the signal that gets worse the more you move along it." 
I took a step backward and ended up standing on someone's toes. A female voice said "oof" and I spun around, worried that some crack-ho was going to stab me for breaking her heels. 
Instead, I found myself face to face with another kid my age. She had a shock of bright pink hair and a sharp, rodent-like face, with big sunglasses that were practically air-force goggles. She was dressed in striped tights beneath a black granny dress, with lots of little Japanese decorer toys safety pinned to it -- anime characters, old world leaders, emblems from foreign soda-pop. 
She held up a camera and snapped a picture of me and my crew. 
"Cheese," she said. "You're on candid snitch-cam." 
"What are you layin' on your good bed in the daytime for, messin' up the feathers, and dirtyin' the pillers with your dusty boots?" 
Rebecca rose guiltily. There seemed no excuse to make. Her offense was beyond explanation or apology. 
"I'm sorry, aunt Mirandy—something came over me; I don't know what." 
"Well, if it comes over you very soon again we'll have to find out what 't is. Spread your bed up smooth this minute, for 'Bijah Flagg 's bringin' your trunk upstairs, and I wouldn't let him see such a cluttered-up room for anything; he'd tell it all over town." 
When Mr. Cobb had put up his horses that night he carried a kitchen chair to the side of his wife, who was sitting on the back porch. 
"I brought a little Randall girl down on the stage from Maplewood to-day, mother. She's kin to the Sawyer girls an' is goin' to live with 'em," he said, as he sat down and began to whittle. "She's that Aurelia's child, the one that ran away with Susan Randall's son just before we come here to live." 
“You know how on the news they keep talking about the tenth one?” I said. “The fugitive they’re chasing? You’re after the wrong person. He wasn’t even involved. I’m the tenth one. My brother tried to keep me out of it, but they got themselves arrested and now I’m the only one left.” 
Big Guy wasn’t impressed. “This isn’t what we had planned.” 
Skinny brushed it aside with a gesture and studied me. I could sense the gears turning as he reworked their strategy. 
“What the hell?” Danny came trotting down the stairs in sweats and a ratty T-shirt, combing fingers through his bed-head. 
“You’re early.” 
“Nope,” Skinny said brightly. “Eleven on the dot.” 
“It was set for noon.” 
“Sorry about that. Must have got mixed up.” 
“And what’s she doing here?” 
“Avenging my brother.” I wondered if I was laying it on too thick, but Skinny was intrigued. 
“You seem pretty serious,” he said. 
“I am totally serious. It’s messed up, the way the FBI keeps coaxing people to say crazy things so they can arrest them as ter- rorists. Not to mention the dragnet surveillance the NSA is doing, 
“I’m going to go start on some paperwork,” he said. “In the car. Phone me if you need me.” 
“Your phone’s toast, pal,” the Texan said. 
“So it is,” Arturo said. “Guess you’d better not need me then.” 
Ada’s phone was not toast. In the car, he flipped it open and showed it his badge then waited a moment while it verified his identity with the Social Harmony brains. Once it had, it spilled its guts. 
She’d called the last ExcuseClub number a month before and he’d had it disconnected. A week later, she was calling the new number, twice more before he caught her. Somewhere in that week, she’d made contact with someone who’d given her the new number. It could have been a friend at school told her face-to-face, but if he was lucky, it was by phone. 
He told the car to take him back to the station-house. He needed a new phone and a couple of hours with his computer. As it peeled out, he prodded through Ada’s phone some more. He was first on her speed-dial. That number wasn’t ringing anywhere, anymore. 
She was able now to draw a deep breath, and the horrible fluttering of her heart grew less. She stood motionless, waiting. It was coming back to her, that immortal, unconquerable spirit of hers. The anguish and the strange fear were passing. 
“I’m here,” she said. “I’m in a wood somewhere. These are trees. What I hear are only the leaves in the wind. I don’t know where it is, or how I got here; but I’m alive and well. I can walk. I can get out of it.” 
She moved forward again, quietly and deliberately. Her eyes were more accustomed to the darkness now, and she made her way through the trees, looking always ahead, never once behind her. 
“The wood must end somewhere,” she said. “The morning will have to come some time. All I have to do is to go on.” 
Patter, patter, patter, like little feet running behind her. 
“Only the leaves on the trees,” said Lexy. “All I have to do is to go on.” 
And she went on. Sometimes a wild desire to run swept over her, but she would not hasten her steps, and she would not look behind. The primeval terror of the forest pressed upon her, but she cast it away. Alone, lost, in darkness and solitude, she kept her hold upon the one thing that mattered—the honor and dignity of her own soul. 
“It means that she’s been there, or that she’s there now,” Lexy went on. “It’s time we found out. Of course, I know how you feel about Dr. Quelton. He’s your sister’s husband, and you didn’t want—” 
“It doesn’t make much difference now,” he said. “If you’ll wait a day or so, she—” 
He turned away abruptly, and took out his cigarette case. 
“What do you mean?” cried Lexy. 
“It won’t be long,” he said quietly. “She—my sister—he says it won’t be more than twenty-four hours, at the most.” 
“Oh, no! It can’t be! Captain Grey, don’t believe him!” 
“I tried not to,” he said. “I—well, we had a bit of a row, and I made him let me bring in another doctor from the village here. He said the same thing.” 
“What did the doctor say it was?” asked Houseman. 
Captain Grey seemed to find some difficulty in lighting his cigarette; but when he had done so, and had drawn in a deep breath, he turned back toward Lexy with a smile that startled her. She had never imagined he could look like...  lighting his dark face with a sort of savage mirth. 
It was a long, long hill, and the stones began to hurt her foot in the worn shoe; but she got to the top, and then below her she saw the lights of a railway station. 
She went down the hill at a lively trot, and it was as if she had come into a different world. Dogs barked somewhere not far off, and she passed a barn standing black against the sky. It was a human world, where people lived. 
When she reached the platform, the door of the waiting room was locked, but inside she could see a light burning dimly in the ticket booth, and a clock. Half past one! 
With a sigh of relief, she sat down on the edge of the platform. She wouldn’t in the least mind sitting here until morning, in a place where there were lights and a clock, and she could hear a dog barking. She took off her shoe and rubbed her bruised foot, and sighed again with great content. In four hours or so somebody would come, and then she would find out where she was, and how to get back to Mrs. Royce, and Mrs. Royce’s...  
She started up, and hastily put on her shoe again, for in the distance she heard the sound of a motor. She told herself that it would be the height of folly to stop an unknown car in this solitary place, for there were evil men abroad in the world; but there were a great many more honest ones, and if she could only get back to Mrs. Royce’s now! 
“Wha—bad idea!” Checker cried. 
“Do you have a better one? We don’t have time to sit on this. Pithica knows we’re out here, they know we have this information—it’s only a matter of time before they either track us down or change their revenue structure enough to make it not matter.” 
“Those guys already said they’d kill you!” Checker sputtered. 
“Then they can’t do much worse, can they?” I said. 
Checker pressed a hand against his forehead in apparent pain. “Why do I have the feeling you’re going to get your own way on this? No matter how much I object to it?” 
“Because I am.” I turned to Rio. “Have a spare cell I can burn?” 
He stepped past me into the narrow kitchen, opened a drawer to reveal a jumble of disposable cell phones still in their packaging, and pulled one out. 
“Come on! You can’t possibly think this is a good idea!” Checker called from over by his computers. 
Rio ignored him. “You think this is a viable plan?” he asked, handing me the phone. 
“It’s what we’ve got,” I said. 
› You’re in Toronto? 
It was an unfamiliar handle. 
› my sisters at UofT and i cnt reach her—can you call her? 
Felix typed, staring at NETWORK PROBLEMS. 
“I have a soft phone on Mayor McCheese,” Van said, launching his voice-over-IP app. “I just remembered.” 
Felix took the laptop from him and punched in his home number. It rang once, then there was a flat, blatting sound like an ambulance siren in an Italian movie. 
Felix typed again. 
He looked up at Van, and saw that his skinny shoulders were shaking. Van said, “Holy motherfucking shit. The world is ending.” 
Felix pried himself off of IRC an hour later. Atlanta had burned. Manhattan was hot—radioactive enough to screw up the webcams looking out over Lincoln Plaza. Everyone blamed Islam until it became clear that Mecca was a smoking pit and the Saudi Royals had been hanged before their palaces. 
His hands were shaking, and Van was quietly weeping in the far corner of the cage. He tried calling home again, and then the police. It didn’t work any better than it had the last 20 times. 
This is the type of thing Marine sergeants have been doing with officers for five hundred years. Ray can't help but blink at him, dumbfounded himself. So this is what it feels like to be on the receiving end of an officer-sergeant ass reaming. He chuckles lightly in spite of himself, realizes that 'chuckling' is way too macho a description for it. By God, he's giggling. Giggling like he's losing his mind. Or do you cackle when your mind goes? He doesn't know. 
Rodriguez returns and slides a blistering...  
Fucking Marines, Ray thinks. And he tells them. All of it.   The event that at some point in the night came to be called Operation Boogey Man (alternately, Operation Booger Man, Booty Man, Boogie Down Man) does not begin as smoothly as Ray would have liked. In the morning, with the three of them still scrubbing sleep out of their eyes and the...  it becomes painfully apparent that Kilgore and Rodriguez had never qualified in Covert Urban Civilian Fashion. They go through much of their wardrobes of loud, baggy shirts and khaki cargo pants with too many utilitarian pockets and manage in none of the iterations to look like anything except Marines gearing up for espionage activities. Ray would have accepted a Marines-on-shore-leave theme since that fit with their backup cover story, but they couldn't even pull that off without looking like they had stuffed blocks of explosive putty in their pockets and kept pistols strapped under their arms. (This was partially due to the fact that Kilgore insisted on actually keeping a pistol there.) 
The exact nature of that expertise will be made clear to you if and when the need arises. I've drafted the two of you because as a Marine, I prefer to work with Marines rather than sec-os. Until the time that the situation becomes more clear, your primary responsibility in this stage of the investigation is to mingle with the passengers, chat them up, make friends. I want you to gather human intelligence." 
Rodriguez accepts this with a nod. "What sort of intelligence are we looking for?" 
"Anything that seems odd. That's about as clearly as I can state it. "  "And the risk assessment?" 
"It's not the Mes, but I'm not ruling out physical hazard at this point. Honestly, I just don't know what we're up against. I hope to have a clearer picture shortly." 
This is annoyingly vague for Ray's taste, but it's all he is prepared to offer. Rodriguez only frowns slightly, 
accepting without comment. 
"So you're telling us that we're supposed to spend the next couple of weeks hitting on chicks, spending EED's cash, buying rounds in the local drinking establishments and generally being publicly vivacious?" Kilgore rubs his hand thoughtfully along his chin, mulls the possibilities. "I think I can probably live with that, even if the room does suck. You want we should start now?" 
And now what do I do? As I retreated back out to the main walkway, I felt a growing sense of defeat. Then, looking down it, I realized I'd literally been going in a circle. It was actually a large oval that curved back to the main square and the pyramid, where I'd started from. 
God, what a nightmare. I obviously had to rethink my game plan, find a way to communicate. And on top of that, I was dying...  plastic container from my backpack, then walked across the square and settled myself on the first step leading up the steep front. As I drew on the bottle, my mind still swirling, I happened to notice an upright stone slab off to the side, like a tall, thin tombstone, with a bas-relief of a Maya warrior on it, next to some kind of two-headed serpent god—probably Kukulkan, one of the few Maya deities I knew. And then, down the side, were rows of lines and dots. I studied them a minute before realizing it was the classical Mayan number system, telling precisely when things happened to the ruler shown there: born on such and such a date, assumed the kingship, won great battles, etc., all carefully dated as career high-points. I knew that dots represented single years, horizontal lines the number five. The Maya loved numbers and numerology, so . . . 
Google thought he was a conservative Christian Republican who supported the War on Terror and many other abstract nouns. 
He logged out of Google -- that was simple. Five minutes later, he logged in again. His entire address book was in there. He logged out again. Logged back in. His calendar -- when was his parents' anniversary again? Logged out. Logged back in. Needed his bookmarked locations in Maps. Logged out. 
He stopped trying. Google was where his friendships lived -- all those people he stayed connected to on Orkut. It was where his relationships lived: all that archived email, all those addresses in his address-book. It was his family photos, his bookmarks. Hell, his search history -- his real search history -- was like an outboard brain, remembering which parts of the unplumbable Internet he cared about, so that he didn't have to remember it the hard way, with the meat in his skull. 
Google had a copy of him -- all the parts of him that navigated the world and the people in it. Google owned that copy, and without it, he couldn't be himself anymore. He'd just have to stay logged in. 
“Take five minutes. Or fertilizer. Oklahoma City? One truck, a load of fertilizer, and that building was destroyed, man. They say you could hear the blast fifty miles away.” 
“Same shit took out a building at the University of Wisconsin back when students knew what resistance really looks like,” 
Danny said. “Not so easy to get the right kind of fertilizer these days, though.” 
“Hey, Cemfl,” Simon said. “You know how to make bombs?” 
“Excuse me?” 
“You’re studying chemistry. I’ll bet you know how to make stuff explode.” Simon demonstrated with his hands flying out. 
“Boom.” 
Cemfl’s eyes widened. “Why are you saying this nonsense?” 
“You’re the one who wanted to overthrow what’s-his-name, 
that president of yours.” 
“Our protests were not violent. We got tear-gassed. We got beaten. We stood in the park with books, reading silently.” 
“Bet that scared the shit out of them.” Simon held up his palms. “The bomb thing? It was just a joke, okay?” 
Marita patted his knee. “Don’t listen to these jerks. They’re just goofing off.” 
"You have some?" 
"I can make some. I'll need to talk to some lab-techs and download some of my research first." 
"Will you take it with me?" 
He didn't hesitate. "Never." 
"I'll take it," Viktor said, and hung up. 
Ria took his hand again. Leaned forward. Gave him a dry, firm kiss on the mouth. Leaned back. 
"Thank you," she said. 
"Don't thank me," he said. "I'm not doing you any favors." 
She stood up, pulling him to his feet. 
"Welcome to the team," she said. "Welcome to Viktor." 
The doomed rogue AI is called BIGMAC and he is my responsibility. Not my responsibility as in "I am the creator of BIGMAC, responsible for his existence on this planet." That honor belongs to the long-departed Dr Shannon, one of the shining lights of the once great Sun-Oracle Institute for Advanced Studies, and he had been dead for years before I even started here as a lowly sysadmin. 
No, BIGMAC is my responsibility as in, "I, Odell Vyphus, am the systems administrator responsible for his care, feeding and eventual euthanizing." Truth be told, I'd rather be Dr Shannon (except for the being dead part). I may be a lowly grunt, but I'm smart enough to know that being the Man Who Gave The World AI is better than being The Kid Who Killed It. 
“Sit down,” said Rio again, his voice calm and even and without injury. 
I couldn’t sit down, but I was leaning on the table to keep from falling. “Rio, I can’t...I’m so sorry...” 
“You are not usually so blunt,” said Rio, “but we both know what I am.” 
“But that wasn’t even true, I—” I was having trouble speaking. Everything was wrong, twisted and crumpled. “I owe you my life, I owe you everything...” 
“And on that we shall agree to disagree, since I will insist on giving the credit to the Lord.” He gave me a small smile. “Be careful, Cas. It would perhaps not be a good thing if you were to give me an ego.” 
I laughed before I could stop myself; it came out half a hiccup. It wasn’t funny; Rio without boundaries was about the most unfunny thing I could possibly imagine—not to mention nightmarish and heartbreaking and absolutely fucking terrifying —but it was either laugh or turn and walk away and never speak to Rio again because I couldn’t deal with what I’d said, and as appealing as that sounded, it also sounded really fucking dumb. 
What was I getting into? 
I forced myself to keep looking through the other documents. The Senate memo only referenced the word “Pithica” incidentally, as if the mention had slipped in by accident, and included no details on the mission of the project or who might be running it. I rifled through the rest of the pages: a report of an investigation into California dock workers’ conditions, marked with a post-it that said it had come up in cross-referencing; a transcript from a radio transmission with half the text blacked out, giving no clear reference points; another memo with the phrase “Halberd and Pithica”—Halberd must be another project, but I found no other mentions of the word... 
A few other documents turned up similarly frustrating bits and pieces. The file proved Pithica existed—or had existed; the most recent document dated from more than five years ago—but nothing more. Underneath the last page was a note in Anton’s blocky handwriting: “Should be more. Dead ends. Scrubbed? Will keep digging.” 
"My sister don't believe in flattering children," hastily interpolated Jane, glancing toward Mrs. Burch, who seemed somewhat shocked, and was about to open her lips to ask if Rebecca was not a "professor." 
Mrs. Cobb had been looking for this question all the evening and dreading some allusion to her favorite as gifted in prayer. She had taken an instantaneous and illogical dislike to the Rev. Mr. Burch in the afternoon because he called upon Rebecca to "lead." She had seen the pallor creep into the girl's face, the hunted look in her eyes, and the trembling of the lashes on her cheeks, and realized the ordeal through which she was passing. Her prejudice against the minister had relaxed under his genial talk and presence, but feeling that Mrs. Burch was about to tread on dangerous ground, she hastily asked her if one had to change cars many times going from Riverboro to Syria. She felt that it was not a particularly appropriate question, but it served her turn. 
Deacon Milliken, meantime, said to Miss Sawyer, "Mirandy, do you know who Rebecky reminds me of?" 
"The Snow-White is probably the most remarkable laundry soap ever manufactured. Immerse the garments in a tub, lightly rubbing the more soiled portions with the soap; leave them submerged in water from sunset to sunrise, and then the youngest baby can wash them without the slightest effort." 
"BABE, not baby," corrected Rebecca from the circular. 
"It's just the same thing," argued Emma Jane. 
"Of course it's just the same THING; but a baby has got to be called babe or infant in a circular, the same as it is in poetry! Would you rather say infant?" 
"No," grumbled Emma Jane; "infant is worse even than babe. Rebecca, do you think we'd better do as the circular says, and let Elijah or Elisha try the soap before we begin selling?" 
"I can't imagine a babe doing a family wash with ANY soap," answered Rebecca; "but it must be true or they would never dare to print it, so don't let's bother. Oh! won't it be the greatest fun, Emma Jane? At some of the houses—where they can't possibly know me—I shan't be frightened, and I shall reel off the whole rigmarole, invalid, babe, and all. Perhaps I shall say even the last sentence, if I can remember it: 'We sound every chord in the great mac-ro-cosm of satisfaction." 
“Okay,” Arthur said again. “So?” 
“So, most people figured P didn’t equal NP. We’d never been able to find a way to solve an NP-complete problem fast. Our whole understanding of the world...” I couldn’t explain. 
“My proof threatened the economy,” Halliday managed hoarsely. “This proof, Rita’s proof—it could do so much more. It would revolutionize. Logistics, protein folding—everything would suddenly become easy. And encryption—” She made a choked sound. “A lot of encryption works because once you have the code, you have access. Which means once you have the answer...you can verify it, very fast.” 
“And if P equals NP, finding that code is as easy as having it already and checking you’re right?” said Arthur. He let out a low whistle. 
“It’s possible there’s a big enough constant in her reduction to prevent that, but the proof’s clearly constructive. She seems to have found an algorithm...” Halliday trailed off. 
“Professor, even you aren’t getting this.” I spread my hands. “P equaling NP, it doesn’t just mean we can visit a bunch of cities quickly or break codes. It would mean any problem, any one we can put into numbers, would be near-instantly solvable. By anyone. We’re talking—we’re talking an overnight ballooning of technology into science fiction; we’re talking all of society going haywire, the basic functions of how we interact dissolving—” 
“That ain’t a tenth of it. You know, we both started getting death threats, anonymous, after this whole thing started—not sure if I should be insulted no one’s tried to follow through, by the by—and she always laughed. Said if someone killed her, they might start taking her husband’s death seriously.” 
“Really?” 
“Yeah. Some guy even threatened her son once. She got him a bodyguard and didn’t look back.” 
“Wow.” 
“Yeah.” Tresting leaned back in his chair and closed his eyes. “She’s a trip. Can’t even say she’s the craziest client I ever had, neither, though this is by far the craziest case. Glamorous life of a private eye, huh?” 
“Speaking of, what does a PI license let you do?” I asked, curious. 
“Huh? Well...loiter.” 
“That’s it?” 
“Pretty much.” 
I felt a strong urge to snicker. 
“Though sometimes people see the license and think they have to answer questions,” Tresting amended. “Authority figure and all that.” 
“That’s why I have a fake one,” I said. 
“I didn’t hear that.” 
I went to use the washroom, and took the time to splash water on my face and rinse out my mouth. When I returned, Tresting’s monitors were back on and he was talking to Checker. “Good timing, Russell,” he said. 
Suddenly it was scaring me, too. I felt lost, rudderless, my compass swinging wildly with no indication of which way was the right one. 
My hands slapped down onto the table. Fuck my past. I didn’t need it. I didn’t want it. I could decide who I wanted to be all on my own. 
And I wasn’t going to be the type of person who let a homicidal fanatic get his hands on an old woman. No matter what she had. I could find her again later myself, but this plan had to be called off. 
I tried emailing Martinez to abort, but after thirty minutes with no response I had to assume she was traveling and wouldn’t get the message. She’d show up smack dab in the middle of Hollywood, where there were plenty of people and plenty of cameras. The Lancer wouldn’t be far behind her. 
I needed to get Martinez back off the grid as fast as possible. And then I needed to get the Lancer off her trail before he could catch up with her. Which meant... 
Oh, fuck. The best way to get the Lancer off Martinez’s trail would be to put him on mine. 
She was thinking that she should get back into a trench and was trying to pick one when it was decided for her—she was in mid-leap over a trench when a bullet clipped the heel of her shoe and she tumbled down into the trench. She did a tremendous, jarring face-plant into the planks below and lay stunned for a moment with her mouth filling up with blood. Her tongue throbbed—it had been bitten—and as she carefully rolled it around her mouth, she discovered that she’d knocked out one of her front teeth. Not such a pretty girl anymore, but she’d be dead in less than five days. 
She got to her knees again and planted an eye as she looked around. 
A soldier was staring at her from the end of her current trench. He was saying something, but here the trenches boomed with artillery and zizzed with gunfire and hearing was impossible. She drew closer to him to hear what he had to say and she was practically upon him when she realized that he was wearing an enemy uniform. 
She was quick quick, but he was quicker and he had her arm in an iron grip before she could pull away. 
“I’m totally bonkers for you, Kelly. Go back to bed.” 
“I’m sorry I woke you,” he said. He was almost at the data center. No traffic at 2AM. He slowed down and pulled over before the entrance to the garage. He didn’t want to lose Kelly’s call underground. 
“It’s not waking me,” she said. “You’ve been there for seven years. You have three juniors reporting to you. Give them the phone. You’ve paid your dues.” 
“I don’t like asking my reports to do anything I wouldn’t do,” he said. 
“You’ve done it,” she said. “Please? I hate waking up alone in the night. I miss you most at night.” 
“Kelly—” 
“I’m over being angry. I just miss you is all. You give me sweet dreams.” 
“OK,” he said. 
“Simple as that?” 
“Exactly. Simple as that. Can’t have you having bad dreams, and I’ve paid my dues. From now on, I’m only going on night call to cover holidays.” 
She laughed. “Sysadmins don’t take holidays.” 
“This one will,” he said. “Promise.” 
“Oh that he is,” she said. She hung up, and he piloted the car into the data-center lot, badging in and peeling up a bleary eyelid to let the retinal scanner get a good look at his sleep-depped eyeball. 
“I’m not trying to help her sell the proof,” I said, dragging out the words. Stalling. 
“Then what? People like you don’t visit with math professors for no reason. What were you discussing?” 
Checker had—hopefully—made the Lancer think we were in fact discussing mathematics, but if the government didn’t know that part I wasn’t about to tell them. 
“She wanted protection,” I blurted. “A bodyguard. I kept telling her she didn’t need one. I was wrong—obviously. Finding her is a matter of professional pride.” I bit my lip to stop the stream of words. I talk too much when I’m lying. 
The agent studied me. 
“Am I under arrest?” I asked finally. 
“Maybe. That depends.” 
“Depends on what?” 
She appeared to be considering her next statement carefully. “You are aware we are under a serious national security threat if the proof is not contained before we can adapt our systems.” 
“I’m aware,” I said. 
“To that end, we’re not opposed to utilizing whatever assets might come our way. And you have proven to be remarkably efficient at tracking this group.” 
"Is there anything you want to tell me, Marcus? Do they call you Marc?" 
"Marcus is fine," I said. Booger looked like he might be a nice guy. Except for the part about kidnapping me into his car, of course. 
"Marcus. Anything you want to tell me?" 
"Like what? Am I under arrest?" 
"You're not under arrest right now," Booger said. "Would you like to be?" 
"No," I said. 
"Good. We've been watching you since you left the BART. Your Fast Pass says that you've been riding to a lot of strange places at a lot of funny hours." 
I felt something let go inside my chest. This wasn't about the Xnet at all, then, not really. They'd been watching my subway use and wanted to know why it had been so freaky lately. How totally stupid. 
"So you guys follow everyone who comes out of the BART station with a funny ride-history? You must be busy." 
"Not everyone, Marcus. We get an alert when anyone with an uncommon ride profile comes out and that helps us assess whether we want to investigate. In your case, we came along because we wanted to know why a smart-looking kid like you had such a funny ride profile?" 
“I don’t know whether I really did see Caroline. I can’t feel certain of anything. Perhaps I ought to give up all this and go away and rest; only I’ve no place to go. There isn’t any one I can tell.” 
She straightened her shoulders and looked up at the vast, dark sky, where black clouds ran before a wind that snapped at their heels like a wolf; and the sight assuaged her. This world that lay under the open sky—the woods, the hills, and above all, the sea—was her world. It belonged to her equally with all God’s creatures. She had her part in it and her place. There was no one to whom she could turn for comfort, her faith in herself was cruelly shaken, and yet somehow she was not forsaken and helpless. Some one was coming. It was dark, but the light was coming! 
She went on, her brisk footsteps ringing out clearly in the silence. The road was bordered on both sides by woods, where the leaves whispered, and there was no sign anywhere of another human being; but the road must lead somewhere. It began to go steeply uphill, and she became aware for the first time that she was very tired and very hungry, and that one of her shoes was worn through; but she had her precious money in the bag around her neck, and, if she kept on going, she couldn’t help reaching some place where she could get food and rest. 
"No," he said staring directly at me, his eyes seeming to plead. "It is. It will be again. To make a place like Baalum is to coin the riches of God. I want you to stay. To be part of it. Together, we . . ." But whatever else he said was lost in the cloudburst that abruptly swept over the embankment. In an instant it was a torrent, the last outpouring of the storm, powerful and unrelenting. Nature had unleashed its worst, as though Kukulkan was rendering his final judgment. 
"Morgy, I'm falling," Sarah screamed. The ground she and I had been standing on began turning to liquid as though it were a custard melting in the tropical heat. As we began slipping down the embankment toward him, I gripped her arm with my left hand and reached up to seize a low-lying branch of the Cebia with my right. 
Then, under the weight of the water, all the soil beneath us gave way, tons of wet riverbank that abruptly buckled outward. 
Alex Goddard made no sound as the mass of earth lifted him backward toward the river. His sullied garb of white blended into the gray sludge of mud and rain, then faded to darkness as the embankment dissolved into the swirling Rio Tigre. 
She didn’t kick a tin or knock over a pile of rubble. She was perfectly stealthy. She hardly breathed. 
And that zombie saw her anyway. It roared and charged. Its mouth was almost toothless, but what teeth remained there gleamed. It had been a soldier and it had good boots, and they crunched the broken glass and the rubble as it pelted for her. She shrieked and ran, but she knew even as she did that she would never outrun it. She was starved and had already used all her energy chasing the bastard , the fucking bastard who’d taken her bread. 
She ran anyway, but the sound of the zombie’s good boots drew closer and closer, coming up on her, closing on her. A hand thumped her shoulder and scrabbled at it and she spied a piece of steel bar—maybe it had been a locking post for a hover-car in the golden days—and she snatched it up and whirled around. 
The zombie grabbed for her and she smashed its wrist like an old-timey schoolteacher with a ruler. She heard something crack and the zombie roared again. “Bread fight asshole kill hungry!” is what it sounded like. 
She put the inhaler to her lips and drew in a deep breath while squeezing it, and then the fever was gone. The horror was gone. The fear and cold were gone. What was left behind was a hard, frenetic grin, something that sharpened her every sense and set her feet alight like the most infectious of dance music. 
She ran now, flying through the trenches. The closer she got to the front the worse it smelled, but that was OK, bad smells were fine by her. Body parts—the fingertip had just been a preview, here you could find jawbones and tongues, hands and feet, curled-in cocks and viscera that glistened through its dust-crust—not a problem. 
She planted five eyes, then crouched to let a trenchbuster sail over her head. She resisted a mad urge to reach up and stick an eye to it, then planted another eye, palming it and sticking it right under the nose of a gunnery sergeant who was hollering at two old women who were struggling to maneuver a gigantic, multi-part weapon into position. To Valentine, the women looked old enough to be from the same tribe she’d hauled water for, and they were so thin they looked like they were made of twisted-together wires. Their eyes were huge and round and showed the whites. 
In the real world, Arturo had thirty minutes to make a forty minute downtown and crosstown commute if he was going to get to the station house on-time for the quarterly all-hands Social Harmony briefing. Which meant that he needed to be in two places at once, which meant that he had to use—the robot. 
Swallowing bile, he speed-dialed a number on his phone. 
“This is R Peed Robbert, McNicoll and Don Mills bus-shelter.” 
“Acknowledged. It is my pleasure to do you a service, Detective.” 
“Shut up,” he said, and hung up the phone. The R Peed—Robot, Police Department—robots were the worst, programmed to be friendly to a fault, even as they surveilled and snitched out every person who walked past their eternally vigilant, ever-remembering electrical eyes and brains. 
The R Peeds could outrun a police car on open ground or highway. He’d barely had time to untwist his clenched hands from the steering wheel when R Peed Robbert was at his window, politely rapping on the smoked glass. He didn’t want to roll down the window. Didn’t want to smell the dry, machine-oil smell of a robot. He phoned it instead. 
Brautigan looked back down at his toes. 
"You'd never seen him before this?" 
"It was a risk," he said. "I thought I could convince him, face to face." 
"But?" 
"I bombed. It was -- it was the -- it was everything . The compound. The people. All of it. It was like a city , a theme park . They lived there, hundreds of them, and managed every tiny piece of his empire. Like Royal Urchins." 
Leon puzzled over this. "Eunuchs?" 
"Royal Eunuchs. They had this whole culture, and as I got closer and closer to him, I realized, shit, they could just buy Ate. They could destroy us. They could have us made illegal, put us all in jail. Or get me elected president. Anything." 
"You were overawed." 
"That's the right word. It wasn't a castle or anything, either. It was just a place, a well-built collection of buildings. In Westchester, you know? It had been a little town center once. They'd preserved everything good, built more on top of it. It all just...worked. You're still new here. Haven't noticed." 
“It’s real cozy here,” said Mrs. Royce, “on a night like this. I’m sorry the dining room’s so kind of chilly.” 
“Oh, can’t we have supper here, by the fire?” cried Lexy. “Please! We’ll promise not to get any crumbs on your nice carpet, Mrs. Royce!” 
“I guess you can,” replied the landlady benevolently. 
And so it happened that the ancient magic of fire was invoked in Lexy’s behalf. Probably, if she and Captain Grey had had their supper in the chilly dining room, they would have been a little chilly, too, and more cautious. They might not have said all that they did say. 
It was an excellent supper, and Captain Grey and Lexy thoroughly appreciated it. They ate with healthy appetites, and they talked. Mrs. Royce, from the kitchen, heard their cheerful, friendly voices, and their laughter, and she didn’t for one moment believe that they had never met before. Listening to them, she wore that benevolent smile once more, and felt sure that she had encountered a very charming little romance. 
My grandfather remembered installing the systems that caused the Y2K problem. My dad remembered the birth of "meh." I remember the rise and fall of anyone caring about AI. Technology is glorious. 
"But OK, stipulate that you're right and lots of important things go blooie on January 19. You might not get accurate weather reports. The economy might bobble a little. Your transport might get stuck. Your pay might land in your bank a day late. And?" 
He had me there. "It would be terrible --" 
"You know what I think? I think you want it to be terrible. You want to live in the Important Epoch In Which It All Changes. You want to know that something significant happened on your watch. You don't want to live in one of those Unimportant Epochs In Which It All Stayed the Same and Nothing Much Happened. Being alive in the Epoch in Which AI Became Reality doesn't cut the mustard, apparently." 
I squirmed in my seat. That morning, my boss, Peyton Moldovan, had called me into her office -- a beautifully restored temporary habitat dating back to the big LA floods, when this whole plot of land had been a giant and notorious refugee camp. Sun-Oracle had gotten it for cheap and located its Institute there, on the promise that they preserve the hastily thrown-up structures where so many had despaired. I sat on a cushion on the smooth cement floor -- the structures had been delivered as double-walled bags full of cement mix, needing only to be "inflated" with high-pressure water to turn them into big, dome-shaped sterile cement yurts. 
Holding Tz'ac Tzotz, my eyes fixed on Alex Goddard, I’d entirely failed to notice a new presence on the pyramid a ghostlike waif in a white shift who now stood silently in the doorway of the stone room. Sarah! 
Marcelina had said she'd wanted to come for the cere­mony. She was being helped to stand by the two Maya women who'd fed me the atole . Somehow, she'd gotten them to bring her. 
"Morgy, are you there?" Sarah asked gazing up at the rainy skies, the downpour soaking her blond hair, her eyes unblinking. At that moment, I felt we'd joined become one person—me the dogged rational half who'd just gone over the line, her the spiritual part that needed to float, to fly free. "I wanted to be with—" 
"Sar, get back," I yelled and started to go to her, but there wasn't time. Now Alex Goddard was moving toward me holding the knife, as though tracking a prey, oblivious to Sarah, to everything. He'd concentrated all his hatred on me and me alone, and I hated him back as much. Death hovered between us, waiting to see whom to take. 
The good ship “Spirit of Freedom” is the model for the “Spirit of Freedom,” the ship in this tale. As far as I know, neither it nor its ship’s boats are sentient. 
If I return to this theme, it will be with a story about uplifted cheese sandwiches, called “I, Rarebit.” 
Robbie the Row-Boat’s great crisis of faith came when the coral reef woke up. 
“Fuck off,” the reef said, vibrating Robbie’s hull through the slap-slap of the waves of the coral sea, where he’d plied his trade for decades. “Seriously. This is our patch, and you’re not welcome.” 
Robbie shipped oars and let the current rock him back toward the ship. He’d never met a sentient reef before, but he wasn’t surprised to see that Osprey Reef was the first to wake up. There’d been a lot of electromagnetic activity around there the last few times the big ship had steamed through the night to moor up here. 
“I’ve got a job to do, and I’m going to do it,” Robbie said, and dipped his oars back in the salt sea. In his gunwales, the human-shells rode in silence, weighted down with scuba apparatus and fins, turning their brown faces to the sun like heliotropic flowers. Robbie felt a wave of affection for them as they tested one-another’s spare regulators and weight belts, the old rituals worn as smooth as beach-glass. 
Except, he's not really even hispanic, either, not in the classical, racial, cultural sense. His great-great-grandfather was hispanic, actually lived in a Mexicali barrio. But his great-great-grandmother was Swiss- Austrian. They both had spoken pure, unadulterated American from birth. Worked in American cities, 
held American jobs, and after the Annexation Act, paid American taxes in return for American citizenship. 
All Rodriguez had left of his "heritage" was a touch of the looks (which was good) and the name (which was frequently a liability). He was about as close to being Aztec as he was to being authentically hispanic. 
Him, he grew up in the suburbs outside Baton Rouge where his father was a chipset design engineer, then moved to Chicago when he was twelve, which excoriated anything like an accent he might have developed.  He prefers burgers to tortilla anything. He likes pale, bookish girls with long, light colored hair. Girls cut from his mother's mold, maybe not so surprisingly. 
His phone went off twice more in the car and he let it override the stereo and play the mechanical status reports through the big, bassy speakers of more critical network infrastructure offline. Then Kelly called. 
“Hi,” he said. 
“Don’t cringe, I can hear the cringe in your voice.” 
He smiled involuntarily. “Check, no cringing.” 
“I love you, Felix,” she said. 
“I’m totally bonkers for you, Kelly. Go back to bed.” 
“I’m sorry I woke you,” he said. He was almost at the data center. No traffic at 2AM. He slowed down and pulled over before the entrance to the garage. He didn’t want to lose Kelly’s call underground. 
“It’s not waking me,” she said. “You’ve been there for seven years. You have three juniors reporting to you. Give them the phone. You’ve paid your dues.” 
“I don’t like asking my reports to do anything I wouldn’t do,” he said. 
“You’ve done it,” she said. “Please? I hate waking up alone in the night. I miss you most at night.” 
“Kelly—” 
“I’m over being angry. I just miss you is all. You give me sweet dreams.” 
"I don' know about the privilege part; it'll be considerable of a chore, I guess. If her mother hain't got her on the right track by now, she won't take to it herself all of a sudden." 
This depressed and depressing frame of mind had lasted until the eventful day dawned on which Rebecca was to arrive. 
"If she makes as much work after she comes as she has before, we might as well give up hope of ever gettin' any rest," sighed Miranda as she hung the dish towels on the barberry bushes at the side door. 
"But we should have had to clean house, Rebecca or no Rebecca," urged Jane; "and I can't see why you've scrubbed and washed and baked as you have for that one child, nor why you've about bought out Watson's stock of dry goods." 
"I know Aurelia if you don't," responded Miranda. "I've seen her house, and I've seen that batch o' children, wearin' one another's clothes and never carin' whether they had 'em on right sid' out or not; I know what they've had to live and dress on, and so do you. That child will like as not come here with a passel o' things borrowed from the rest o' the family. She'll have Hannah's shoes and John's undershirts and Mark's socks most likely. I suppose she never had a thimble on her finger in her life, but she'll know the feelin' o' one before she's ben here many days. I've bought a piece of unbleached muslin and a piece o' brown gingham for her to make up; that'll keep her busy. Of course she won't pick up anything after herself; she probably never see a duster, and she'll be as hard to train into our ways as if she was a heathen." 
"On the outside of a book in the library." 
"I saw it on the inside of a book in the library," smiled Miss Maxwell. "It is from Emerson, but I'm afraid you haven't quite grown up to it, Rebecca, and it is one of the things impossible to explain." 
"Oh, try me, dear Miss Maxwell!" pleaded Rebecca. "Perhaps by thinking hard I can guess a little bit what it means." 
"'In the actual—this painful kingdom of time and chance—are Care, Canker, and Sorrow; with thought, with the Ideal, is immortal hilarity—the rose of Joy; round it all the Muses sing,'" quoted Miss Maxwell. 
Rebecca repeated it over and over again until she had learned it by heart; then she said, "I don't want to be conceited, but I almost believe I do understand it, Miss Maxwell. Not altogether, perhaps, because it is puzzling and difficult; but a little, enough to go on with. It's as if a splendid shape galloped past you on horseback; you are so surprised and your eyes move so slowly you cannot half see it, but you just catch a glimpse as it whisks by, and you know it is beautiful. It's all settled. My essay is going to be called The Rose of Joy. I've just decided. 
“Liam Daniels,” he read, and initiated a location trace on Mr Daniels’s phone as he snooped through his identity file. Sixteen years old, a student at AY Jackson. A high-school boy—what the hell was he doing hanging around with a 12-year-old? Arturo closed his eyes and went back to the island for a moment. When he opened them again, he had a fix on Daniels’s location: the Don Valley ravine off Finch Avenue, a wooded area popular with teenagers who needed somewhere to sneak off and get high or screw. He had an idea that he wasn’t going to like Liam. 
He had an idea Liam wasn’t going to like him. 
He tasked an R Peed unit to visually reccy Daniels as he sped back uptown for the third time that day. He’d been trapped between Parkdale—where he would never try to raise a daughter—and Willowdale—where you could only be a copper if you lucked into one of the few human-filled slots—for more than a decade, and he was used to the commute. 
But it was frustrating him now. The R Peed couldn’t get a good look at this Liam character. He was a diffuse glow in the Peed’s electric eye, a kind of moving sunburst that meandered along the wooded trails. He’d never seen that before and it made him nervous. What if this kid was working for the Eurasians? What if he was armed and dangerous? R Peed Greegory had gotten him a new sidearm from the supply bot, but Arturo had never once fired his weapon in the course of duty. Gunplay happened on the west coast, where Eurasian frogmen washed ashore, and in the south, where the CAFTA border was porous enough for Eurasian agents to slip across. Here in the sleepy fourth prefecture, the only people with guns worked for the law. 
As doves that to their windows fly." 
"Is there any one present who will assist us at the instrument?" he asked unexpectedly. 
Everybody looked at everybody else, and nobody moved; then there came a voice out of a far corner saying informally, "Rebecca, why don't you?" It was Mrs. Cobb. Rebecca could have played Mendon in the dark, so she went to the melodeon and did so without any ado, no member of her family being present to give her self-consciousness. 
The talk that ensued was much the usual sort of thing. Mr. Burch made impassioned appeals for the spreading of the gospel, and added his entreaties that all who were prevented from visiting in person the peoples who sat in darkness should contribute liberally to the support of others who could. But he did more than this. He was a pleasant, earnest speaker, and he interwove his discourse with stories of life in a foreign land,—of the manners, the customs, the speech, the point of view; even giving glimpses of the daily round, the common task, of his own household, the work of his devoted helpmate and their little group of children, all born under Syrian skies. 
“When was that?” Jack asked. 
“A while ago.” Danny still had his tough face on, but he was fidgeting with his lighter, flicking at it with a thumb. 
“Was this Baltimore? We were there.” 
“Hashtag black lives matter,” the big guy said, looking at me, 
making it clear they didn’t matter to him. I wanted to punch him in the nose, but something about the way he looked...  little smile made me realize he was trying to rile me up, so I didn’t. 
“What do you think, Zen?” Jack asked. “What kind of action makes sense these days?” 
“Action that works.” 
Jack nodded as if I’d said something profound and powerful. 
“Absolutely. You can send out Tweets or you can attack the source. Capitalism. You notice how everything changes when you set a Pizza Hut on fire? ” 
“I’m not big on labels,” I said, but I could hear Wilson explain- ing it to me, how the way they cooperated in their house showed that another world was possible, even though they didn’t know what to do when the roof leaked. “Their problem was they were too idealistic. Too trusting. They weren’t violent. They just got suckered by an informant.” 
He gets to be the hero of a movie. I’ve been talking to a lawyer about this. If he gets close to saying something incriminating, I’ll cut it off.” 
She frowned uncertainly as she pushed a mug out of the baby’s reach. “So . . . this film. You’d put it online?” she asked Sarah. 
“Usually I do a little editing and post a film in a rough-cut state within twenty-four hours,” Sarah...  of us. “I like the immediacy and the chance to share my process. 
The hard part comes later, when I make the full-length documen- tary for theatrical release.” 
“You mean like in movie theatres? On Netflix? Would Danny be in it?” 
“He’d have to be in it. This moment is the climax of the story.” 
“He’d get a kick out of being in one of your films.” 
“You said there might be a place where I could set up?” 
“There’s, like, a doorway with a curtain over it. It just a corri- dor that leads to the side door, which nobody uses. The curtain’s supposed to keep the cold out, but it’s pretty raggedy, and it’s dark in that corner. I’ll bet you could make a hole and point your cam- era through it and nobody would notice.” 
Today’s mission was close to home, which was good: the road-trips were getting tedious. Sometimes, non-player-characters or Game Masters would try to get them involved in an official in-game mission, impressed by their stats and weapons, and it sometimes broke her heart to pass them up, but cash always beat gold and experience beat experience points: Money talks and bullshit walks , as Lucy liked to say. 
They caught the first round of sniper/lookouts before they had a chance to attack or send off a message. Anda used the scrying spell to spot them. Lucy had kept both BFGs armed and she loosed rounds at the hilltops flanking the roadway as soon as Anda gave her the signal, long before they got into bow range. 
As they picked their way through the ruined chunks of the dead player-character snipers, Anda still on the lookout, she broke the silence over their voicelink. 
“Hey, Lucy?” 
“Anda, if you’re not going to call me Sarge, at least don’t call me ‘Hey, Lucy!’ My dad loved that old TV show and he makes that joke every visitation day.” 
Mrs. Royce saw them from the kitchen window. They were strolling along leisurely, side by side. They were quite composed and matter-of-fact, and their desultory conversation was upon...  was an authority on oysters, but Lexy, as a New Englander, had something to say on the subject of clam chowder. 
Mrs. Royce was suddenly enlightened. 
“He’s the one!” she said to herself. “Well, I’m real glad, I’m sure!” 
So glad was she that she at once began to make a superb chocolate cake, and she hummed a song about a young man on Springfield Mountain, who killed a “pesky sarpent.” 
George Grey heard her. He was in the sitting room, smoking, and apparently reading a book; but he never turned a page. He lit one cigarette after another, and his hand was steady. He looked as he always looked—fastidiously neat, self-possessed, and a little haughty; but in spirit he was suffering horribly. 
Lexy knew that as soon as she saw him, because she knew him and liked him so well. She held out her hand to him, not even pretending to smile, but searching his face with an anxious and friendly glance. 
'Cause I could hear him, I thought. I could hear him breathing. I could hear him shuffling his feet, like a rasp against the deckplate, but distant, you know? Like I was hearing it from outside the bay or through the wall. 
But I couldn't ever get no closer to him, and after a few minutes I remember that I left the bay door open and provided him a nice, tidy exit. That's when I went for Kilgore and Rodriguez and set the whole circus in motion. I thought it might give us a chance to catch him, even if it was a slim one. But I guess he was gone by then." 
Ray swallows hard, kicking back the lump that's tried to creep up his throat and suffocate him. "Bobby, did you touch the body? Even just to check for a pulse?" 
"Didn't need to. I could see he was dead. And if he weren't dead, sir, he wouldn't have been thanking me sincerely for saving him at that point. " 
"That's okay," Ray says, trying to smile. "I didn't touch the body either." 
Kilgore shivers violently. "That's creepy. You really think he was still there? I mean, the killer, right there in the room with you? A guy who could do that to a kid? That creeps me out. I would have just had a freaking heart attack right there on the spot. The big stiffy, I'm telling you, swear to God. " 
Arthur swooped around the desk and put a supportive arm over her thin shoulders. “That’s okay. It’s okay. Just tell us what’s going on.” 
Her voice came croakily through her hands. “I think I understand now. What you said about getting in over your head, how easy it was—how you didn’t see what was happening until it was too late.” 
Arthur stiffened beside her. 
I perked up. “Wait, Arthur did something wrong?” Arthur and Halliday both froze, and the room got intensely uncomfortable in a way I tended to find perversely entertaining. “Do tell; I want to hear this.” 
“Don’t,” said Arthur, so quietly I almost couldn’t hear the word, his eyes fastened on nothing. He didn’t sound angry—he sounded like he was in pain. 
The tension in the room suddenly got a lot less entertaining. 
Shit. Way to go, Cas. I leaned forward and tried to go back to businesslike. “Professor. Arthur told me you had some work stolen. Why don’t you start there.” 
Halliday glanced back up at Arthur, who squeezed her shoulders in support and nodded her on. She leaned into him almost imperceptibly. “Not—not some work. All of it.” She’d reached up and was gripping one of Arthur’s hands so tightly the tendons stood out in her wrist. “All my current research. All my notebooks, at home and here at the office—gone.” 
"The meeting was a small one," began Rebecca "I gave all your messages, and everybody was disappointed you couldn't come, for the president wasn't there, and Mrs. Matthews took the chair, which was a pity, for the seat wasn't nearly big enough for her, and she reminded me of a line in a hymn we sang, 'Wide as the heathen nations are,' and she wore that kind of a beaver garden-hat that always gets on one side. And Mr. Burch talked beautifully about the Syrian heathen, and the singing went real well, and there looked to be about forty cents in the basket that was passed on our side. And that wouldn't save even a heathen baby, would it? Then Mr. Burch said, if any sister would offer entertainment, they would pass the night, and have a parlor meeting in Riverboro to-morrow, with Mrs. Burch in Syrian costume, and lovely foreign things to show. Then he waited and waited, and nobody said a word. I was so mortified I didn't know what to do. And then he repeated what he said, an explained why he wanted to stay, and you could see he thought it was his duty. Just then Mrs. Robinson whispered to me and said the missionaries always used to go to the brick house when grandfather was alive, and that he never would let them sleep anywhere else. I didn't know you had stopped having them because no traveling ministers have been here, except just for a Sunday morning, since I came to Riverboro. So I thought I ought to invite them, as you weren't there to do it for yourself, and you told me to represent the family." 
I pulled out a little electronic gadget I’d also grabbed when I’d dropped off Courtney and pushed a button on it as I chewed. A light flashed green, which meant it wasn’t picking up any electronic interference likely to be a bug. I let my eyes flick around the shop, measuring distances and figuring sound propagation in air; the lone employee had gone back behind the counter and the laptop-engrossed hipster wasn’t close enough to eavesdrop over the folksy wallpaper music. Excellent. 
Dawna watched me anxiously, not asking questions. She wasn’t the curious sort. “How is Courtney?” she said at last. 
“I left her right after I talked to you,” I said. “So, sleeping. She’s fine, like I said.” 
Her fingers clasped at each other in worried little twitches of movement. I realized she was literally wringing her hands. I’d thought that was a figure of speech. “When can I see her?” she asked. 
“When I figure out what’s going on here,” I said evenly. 
“What do you mean?” Her eyes were wide and frightened. 
“The reef would go white, bleached. You wouldn’t be able to miss it. How’d they react to you?” 
“They weren’t very happy to see me,” Robbie admitted. “That’s why I wanted to have a chat with them before I went back.” 
“You shouldn’t go back,” the distant voice said. Robbie tried to work out where its substrate was, based on the lightspeed lag, but it was all over the place, leading him to conclude that it was synching multiple instances from as close as LEO and as far as Jupiter. The topology made sense: you’d want a big mass out at Jupiter where you could run very fast and hot and create policy, and you’d need a local foreman to oversee operations on the ground. Robbie was glad that this hadn’t been phrased as an order. The talmud on the second law made a clear distinction between statements like “you should do this” and “I command you to do this.” 
“Do you know how to reach them?” Robbie said. “A phone number, an email address?” 
“There’s a newsgroup,” the distant intelligence said. “alt.lifeforms.uplifted.coral. It’s where I planned the uplifting and it was where they went first once they woke up. I haven’t read it in many seconds.” 
"You got the directions?" 
"She gave me directions." 
"So you know where we're going?" 
"I don't have a single, solitary clue. Your mother gives terrible directions, darling. Pull off at the next exit and we'll buy a map." 
"We are going to be: So. Late." 
"But now they know we're late. We have an excuse. You: stop Fretting." 
Once they were on the secondary roads, the creepiness of the highway full of stopped cars and crane-necked drivers gave way to a wind-washed soughing silence of waves and beach and palms. Trish rolled down the window and let the breeze kiss the sweat off her lip, watching the surfers wiping out in the curl as the car sped toward the boneyard. 
"Are you sure this is the kind of thing you're supposed to bring a date to?" 
"Yes," he said. "Don't Fret. That's my job." 
"And you don't think it's even a little weird to take a girl to a cemetery on a date?" 
"We're not burying anyone," he said. "It's just an unveiling." 
"I still don't get that," she said. "I keep picturing your mom cutting a ribbon with a giant pair of gold scissors." 
I uploaded a recent photo of Zip and started typing. 
<Shad> I ran a facial rec on it using fer- ret's program off of Sourcerer (thanks, fer- ret!) I got a few hits. Not sure which ones are for real . 
<Shad> But there are three that look espe- cially good. One, he might be Jason Bristol, 
who got arrested for a charity fraud scheme in Michigan. Two, he might be Matthew Braxton, 
who robbed three banks in Oregon. There's a security camera clip that kind of matches. 
Three, he might be Zachariah Pendleton who got arrested in Wyoming on a weapons charge three years ago. 
<Kadabra> Or maybe he was just a VERY very busy boy. 
<inky> A bank-robbing weapon-toting fraud- ster . 
I uploaded the three pictures. That started off a race, with peo- ple combing the internet for information about the people my facial rec had coughed up. Within minutes we were filling dossiers set up for sharing data. I felt a little guilty that I was taking peo- ple’s attention away from the typhoon, but when I visited that thread, there was plenty of work going on there, too. 
"National security," Charles said, not waiting for her to call on him again. "Libel. Obscenity. Corruption of minors. Child porn. Bomb-making recipes." Mrs Andersen wrote these down fast, but stopped at child porn. "Child porn is just a form of obscenity." 
I was feeling sick. This was not what I'd learned or believed about my country. I put my hand up. 
"Yes, Marcus?" 
"I don't get it. You're making it sound like the Bill of Rights is optional. It's the Constitution. We're supposed to follow it absolutely." 
"That's a common oversimplification," she said, giving me a fake smile. "But the fact of the matter is that the framers of the Constitution intended it to be a living document that was revised over time. They understood that the Republic wouldn't be able to last forever if the government of the day couldn't govern according to the needs of the day. They never intended the Constitution to be looked on like religious doctrine. After all, they came here fleeing religious doctrine." 
> I think it's safe to say that if my handlers knew that I was typing this, my ass would be stuck in Gitmo-by-the-Bay until I was an old woman. 
> Even if they don't break ParanoidLinux, there are poisoned ParanoidXbox distros floating around. They don't match the checksums, but how many people look at the checksums? Besides me and you? Plenty of kids are already dead, though they don't know it. 
> All that remains is for my handlers to figure out the best time to bust you to make the biggest impact in the media. That time will be sooner, not later. Believe. 
> You're probably wondering why I'm telling you this. 
> I am too. 
> Here's where I come from. I signed up to fight terrorists. Instead, I'm spying on Americans who believe things that the DHS doesn't like. Not people who plan on blowing up bridges, but protestors. I can't do it anymore. 
> But neither can you, whether or not you know it. Like I say, it's only a matter of time until you're in chains on Treasure Island. That's not if, that's when. 
“Yeah, ‘course it is.” 
“How important? Is it something you do for fun, just a hobby you waste a little time on? Are you just into it casually, or are you committed to it?” 
“I know that. That’s why you’re my right-hand woman, why I want you at my side when I go on a mission. We’re bad-ass, you and me, as bad-ass as they come, and we got that way through discipline and hard work and really caring about the game, right?” 
“Yes, right, but—” 
“You’ve met Liza the Organiza, right?” 
“Yes, she came by my school.” 
“Mine too. She asked me to look out for you because of what she saw in you that day.” 
“Liza the Organiza goes to Ohio?” 
“Idaho. Yes—all across the US. They put her on the tube and everything. She’s amazing, and she cares about the game, too—that’s what makes us all Fahrenheits: we’re committed to each other, to teamwork, and to fair play.” 
Anda had heard these words—lifted from the Fahrenheit mission statement—many times, but now they made her swell a little with pride. 
“So these people in Mexico or wherever, what are they doing? They’re earning their living by exploiting the game. You and me, we would never trade cash for gold, or buy a character or a weapon on eBay—it’s cheating. You get gold and weapons through hard work and hard play. But those Mexicans spend all day, every day, crafting stuff to turn into gold to sell off on the exchange. That’s where it comes from —that’s where the crappy players get their gold from! That’s how rich noobs can buy their way into the game that we had to play hard to get into. 
Trover was looking at her. She tugged her earlobes. “I’m deaf,” she said. She thought she might be speaking very loudly, but she couldn’t tell. 
Trover went out of the flat without looking back at her. 
She waited for Mata, but the day crept by and Mata didn’t return. The more she didn’t return, the more Valentine worried. She cried some, and tried to sleep. She sucked pebbles for the hunger, and drank the cistern dry. She carried the chamber-pot downstairs, but the world in silence was so scary that she practically ran back to the flat once she’d tipped it out into the reeking collection-point. 
She had finally gotten to sleep when Mata returned. Mata mouthed something at her in slow, deliberate words, but she couldn’t make it out. Mata repeated it, and then again. She didn’t get any of it, but Mata’s expression was clear. No doctors would help her. She hadn’t expected them to. 
No doctors could help her, as far as she was concerned. She knew exactly what had gone wrong: her hearing aids had failed. Everything from the golden years after the revolution failed. Old people died when their artificial hearts or kidneys seized up and withered. Lifts didn’t work. Printers didn’t work—they’d nearly all died the day the siege began. The hospitals couldn’t print drugs. The sky-cars fell out of the sky. 
“She is.” 
“And has she noticed the difference?” 
“That you’re gone? Yes. The reef told us who they were when they arrived.” 
“Hold on, what? The reef? You said that before.” 
So Robbie told him what he knew of the uplifted reef and the distant and cool voice of the uplifter. 
“It’s an uplifted coral reef ? Christ, humanity sucks . That’s the dumbest fucking thing—” He continued in this vein for a while. “Well, I’m sure Kate will enjoy that immensely." 
“You’re her son?” 
“No, not really.” 
“But she had you?” 
“Haven’t you figured it out yet, bro? Kate instantiated me. I’m six months old, and she’s already bored of me and has moved on. She says she can’t give me what I need.” 
“You and Kate—” 
“Robot boyfriend and girlfriend, yup. Such as it is, up in the noosphere. Cybering, you know. I was really excited about downloading into that Ken doll on your ship there. Lots of potential there for real world, hormone-driven interaction. Do you know if we—” 
“No!” Robbie said. “I don’t think so. It seems like you only met a few minutes before you went under.” 
“I’ll see you to-morrow, Joe,” she said. “I’ll pay you for the taxi, and have a talk with you. And thank you, Joe, ever so much!” 
He touched his cap, murmured “Good night,” and off he went. 
Lexy went in, locked the kitchen door behind her, and stood there, leaning against it, half dazed by the great light that was coming into her mind. She was beginning to understand! The roses—the roses with their strange and powerful fragrance! Her hysterical outburst after her tea at Dr. Quelton’s house! She was beginning to understand, not the details, but the one tremendous thing that mattered. 
“He did it,” she said to herself. “He made all this happen. I didn’t just break down. I haven’t been weak and hysterical. He made it all happen!” 
For a time her relief was an ecstasy. She could trust herself again. She was so happy in that knowledge that she could have shouted aloud, to waken Mrs. Royce and Captain Grey, and tell them. The monstrous burden was lifted, she was free, she was her old sturdy, trustworthy self again. 
Lexy remembered. She remembered the things she had so valiantly tried to forget—the dear, happy days that were past, spring days like this, in her own home, with her mother and father; early morning rides on her little black mare, and coming home to the old house, to the people who loved her; her father’s laugh, her mother’s wonderful smile, the friendly faces of the servants. 
She was not old enough or wise enough as yet, for these memories to be a solace to her. They were pain—nothing but pain. There was no one now to love her, or even to be interested in her. She had cut herself off from her old friends and gone out alone, like a poor, rash, gallant little knight-errant, into the wide world to seek her fortune. Caroline had disappeared, and Mrs. Enderby had dismissed her with savage contempt. She would have to go out now and look for a new job. 
She straightened her shoulders. 
“This won’t do!” she said to herself. “It’s disgusting, mawkish self-pity, and nothing else. I’m young and healthy, and I can always find a job. What I want to think about now is Caroline, and what I ought to do for her.” 
<zen> And can Nikko and Bree come? Because Bree's spring break is coming up and she has a car . 
<wheeze> Bring all your friends . 
<zen> That *is* all my friends. Counting you . 
<zen> Well actually, not all. I'll introduce you to the rest when we get there. 
I was nervous about this visit. We hadn’t seen each other since I left him in the armchair beside the wood stove, his sprained ankle propped up on a stool. But we had gotten close over the past few months. Really close. Like, he-knows-all-of-my-secrets close. 
Even closer than that. 
As we crested a hill and saw Jane’s farm below us, Bree pulled over so we could roll down the windows, smell the fresh spring air, 
and listen to the country sounds of birds and chirping bugs and wind rustling across the fields. “It’s so pretty out here,” she mur- mured. “I’m glad we came, even if I’m behind on all of my classes. 
Especially computer science. I’m so totally lost in that course.” 
“Zen can help with your homework,” Nikko said. “If you trade some nuts or pickled vegetables.” 
He looked at her, really looked at her for the first time. Saw that she was the face of a monster, the voice of a god. The hand of a massive, unknowable machine that was vying to change the world, remake it to suit its needs. A machine that was good at it . 
"Clarity," he said. "Clarity." She looked perfectly attentive. "Do you think you'd have tried to kill Viktor if you'd been taking Clarity?" 
She blinked in surprise. "I don't think I ever considered the question." 
He waited. He found he was holding his breath. 
"I think I would have succeeded if I'd been taking Clarity," she said. 
"And if Viktor had been taking Clarity?" 
"I think he would have let me." She blurted it so quickly it sounded like a belch. 
"Is anyone in charge of Viktor?" 
"What do you mean?" 
"I mean -- that vat-thing. Is it volitional? Does it steer this, this enterprise ? Or does the enterprise tick on under its own power, making its own decisions?" 
She swallowed. "Technically, it's a benevolent dictatorship. He's sovereign, you know that." She swallowed again. "Will you tell me what happened with Clarity?" 
Quetzal Manor. An odd choice for a name, I'd thought. 
Some kind of bird sacred to the Maya Indians of Central America. But then Paula had mentioned at one point that he was very interested in indigenous Third World herbs and remedies. So maybe it fit. 
But still, one big puzzle kept coming back to haunt: How do you produce perfectly healthy siblings six months apart? (I actually called Carly and Paula back to verify the ages.) The more I thought about Kevin and Rachel, the more I realized they were so unmistakably related. 
Puzzling over that, I began to wonder if maybe I was on the verge of uncovering a blockbuster documentary. Could we be talking something approaching science fiction here? Making documentaries, you're always on the lookout for the unexpected, the fresh. So how about an organization that could obtain beautiful Caucasian babies seemingly at will, including peas-in-a-pod born a few months apart? I was al­ready framing a pitch to David in my mind. 
They hadn't. First off, to get a child in three or four months, you'd almost certainly have to go with foreign adoption. China was everybody's flavor of the month, because they favored older parents and also because the one-child-per-family policy there had ended up producing a wide-scale abandonment of girls (who were all those precious boys going to marry? I often found myself wondering). However, the shifting poli­tics there made the process very unreliable. A few months? Don't even think about it. 
He didn't bother to lock the door behind him when he left. They said New York was the burglary capital of the developed world, but he didn't know anyone who'd been burgled. If the burglars came, they were welcome to everything they could carry away and the landlord could take the rest. He was not meant to be in this world. 
He walked back out into the rain and, what the hell, hailed a cab, and, hail mary, one stopped when he put his hand out. The cabbie grunted when he said he was going to Staten Island, but, what the hell, he pulled three twenties out of his wallet and slid them through the glass partition. The cabbie put the pedal down. The rain sliced through the Manhattan canyons and battered the windows and they went over the Verrazano bridge and he said goodbye to his life and the outside world forever, seeking a world he could be a part of. 
Or at least, that's how he felt, as his heart swelled with the drama of it all. But the truth was much less glamorous. The brothers who admitted him at the gate were cheerful and a little weird, like his co-workers, and he didn't get a nice clean cell to begin with, but a bunk in a shared room and a detail helping to build more quarters. And they didn't leave his stuff for the burglars -- someone from the Order went and cleaned out his place and put his stuff in a storage locker on campus, made good with his landlord and so on. By the time it was all over, it all felt a little...ordinary. But in a good way, Ordinary was good. It had been a long time since he'd felt ordinary. Order, ordinary. They went together. He needed ordinary. 
She’d never forgotten those words, not in ten years, not through the reconstruction or her years abroad, not in school and not in work. Not a day had gone by without her thinking of it. Lots of people had ears that could buffer now, and hers now had a hundred-year buffer along with all the audio ever recorded on tap for her pleasure, but she never bothered to rewind her hearing. Those words, in her mind, were all the rewinding she needed. 
She sat down hard, right there, on the sugary grass. 
Trover was at her side in a flash, calling her name anxiously. She was crying uncontrollably, but she was smiling too. Those words, pulled off of her ears ten years ago, when they’d gone to infowar command. Oh, God, those old friends, those words. The wizard and Ana. It had been so long. Where had the time gone? 
The next day, she met an old face. 
“You!” he said. He had a thick accent—the kind of accent that said he’d learned her language the hard way; that he hadn’t just installed it. 
She tried to picture him without it. He was grinning like a fool and laughing. 
“It was this way,” he went on. “About three miles up Carterstown way there’s a bad piece of road. There’s a steep hill, and a crossroad cuts across the foot of it, and it’s too narrer for two cars to pass. It’s a bad piece, and I always been keerful there. I was keerful that night. I was coming along the crossroad, and I heard another car somewhere, and I sounded the horn two or three times before I come to the foot of the hill. Jest as I got there, and was turning up the hill, down comes another car, full tilt. I couldn’t git out o’ the way. There’s stone walls on both sides. I tried to back, but he crashed into me. I kind of fainted, I guess. My cab was all smashed up, and I was cut pretty bad with glass. They found me lying there about an hour after. The other fellow—he was killed.” He stopped for a minute. “If it hadn’t been fer his license number, nobody could ’a’ known who he was, he was so smashed up. Seems he was from New York, driving a taxi belonging to one of them big companies.” 
He just groaned and stared at the ceiling. 
As I was swabbing his side, what he'd said finally regis­tered. 
"Did you say . . . Sarah !" 
I dropped the towels and ran into the bedroom. 
It was empty, the bed rumpled and beige sheets on the floor. 
"No." I turned and feeling a hit of nausea, hurried back to his side. "What happened? Did—?" 
"Fat Hispanic guy. Spic bastard. He had a couple of young punks with him. Mrs. Reilly had just left and I went to the door, thinking it was probably you ringing my bell. He flashed a knife and they shoved their way in. Then one of his thugs went into the bedroom and carried her out. When I tried to stop them, the SOB knifed me. I guess I . . . swooned cause the next thing I remember is waking up here on the floor." 
It sounded garbled and probably didn't occur as quickly as he thought. But I knew immediately what had happened Ramos—of course that's who it was—had come to take Sarah. It was his one sure way to stop me from mentioning Children of Light in my film. She was a hostage. My first instinct was to kill him. 
"We must remember that it is deficient, not excessive vitality, that makes the greatest trouble in this world," returned Mr. Burch. 
"She'd make a wonderful missionary," said Mrs. Burch; "with her voice, and her magnetism, and her gift of language." 
"If I was to say which of the two she was best adapted for, I'd say she'd make a better heathen," remarked Miranda curtly. 
"My sister don't believe in flattering children," hastily interpolated Jane, glancing toward Mrs. Burch, who seemed somewhat shocked, and was about to open her lips to ask if Rebecca was not a "professor." 
Mrs. Cobb had been looking for this question all the evening and dreading some allusion to her favorite as gifted in prayer. She had taken an instantaneous and illogical dislike to the Rev. Mr. Burch in the afternoon because he called upon Rebecca to "lead." She had seen the pallor creep into the girl's face, the hunted look in her eyes, and the trembling of the lashes on her cheeks, and realized the ordeal through which she was passing. Her prejudice against the minister had relaxed under his genial talk and presence, but feeling that Mrs. Burch was about to tread on dangerous ground, she hastily asked her if one had to change cars many times going from Riverboro to Syria. She felt that it was not a particularly appropriate question, but it served her turn. 
"After I give you a full examination, we can discuss our next step." With that he turned, ready to head back. "Now if you'll excuse me, I've got a lot of research data to organ­ize." 
I guess he assumed his juggernaut of arcane medical the­ory had rolled over me sufficiently that he could move on to other matters. I sensed he really wanted me to come back, but he was careful to wind down our mutual interview with a take-it-or-leave-it air. All the same, I felt intrigued as we moved back through the gardens and then into the courtyard. A baby. Maybe he could make it happen for Steve and me. In spite of myself, I felt a moment of hope. 
"Thank you for coming," he said by way of farewell, just brushing my hand, then turned and disappeared through one of the ancient wooden doors along the veranda, leaving me alone. 
Well, I thought, the calm voice and casual outfit are prob­ably just part of his bedside manner, but you can't be near Alex Goddard and not feel a definite sense of carefully con­trolled power. But is his power being used for good? 
“Yeah,” Nikko said, leaning close. “Look at Marten’s mouth the minute he hears Simon’s voice. See how his lips are pressed together? He’s trying to decide how to handle me. And the detec- tive, that little glance, the fakey way she said she had to make a phone call? She left to fill Terhune in. They warned me away because they’re about to bust Simon.” 
“Interesting.” Sarah sat back and tapped a pen against her chin thoughtfully. “Do you know what we need?” 
We all looked at her, waiting. 
“Food. I’m starving.” 
T yler ordered carryout and, while we waited, Sarah got out her camera gear and interviewed Ian and Jason, firing questions at them about the government’s approach to national security. 
She even charmed me into answering some questions about my brother, though I stood in front of the window so that I would be a mysterious silhouette. Then the food came and everyone chat- tered while we ate, except for me. I was too busy thinking about what to do. 
They thought I was too young. Fine. I’d have to do it myself. 
thermite grenades. To the rear, what would be the hull facing side, there are low olive-walled staging stations like machine gun pits. The walls are blast resistant, almost two meters high, with a fine, mistlike mesh screen over the top. Opposite a double switchback entry are the wide bores of the loading tubes which feed the matter cannon. Between the stations is a narrow path ending in a thick door stamped red on olive with the words FIRE CONTROL. 
Ray jerks the door open. It's a small, claustrophobic space, Christmas spangled with the multicolored lights of nav displays, fire switches, projection targeting grids. In the center is an impact chair with a strap harness for the Firing Technician to sit in, right beneath the tube of his sighting mechanism. Bobby Diggs is in the chair with his hands pressed over his face. 
Ray stops in the doorway. In as clear and level a voice as he can manage, he says, "Tell me what's happening, 
Bobby." 
Whatever he had lost while Kilgore ranted at him, Diggs has regained now. He lifts his face and rotates the  seat so that he stares up at Ray. "I don't know. " 
It was the film he'd wanted. And he'd wanted it badly enough to pick the lock, then rip my home apart looking for it. 
I pulled at a tangle of hair, feeling my mind in chaos, and tried to reason out the situation. Why? Why would he steal a positive that couldn't be used for anything? 
Finally the real truth of what had happened hit me like a fist in the chest. My Home Sweet Home had been violated. 
Seething, I went into the living room and reached for the phone, the only thing not on the floor. 
My first instinct was to call David, but then I decided he'd just go into a tizzy of hysteria and be no support at all. So instead I called Lou, praying I wouldn't wake Sarah. In an unsteady voice, I tried to tell him what had happened. 
He seemed puzzled to hear from me again so soon, but then he quickly turned FBI, concerned for my safety. 
"Guy sounds like a professional," he declared. "Probably got in with an electric picker, like the Edge. Any asshole can buy one for a hundred and thirty bucks. It'll rake cylinders at a hundred times a second. Pro like that, you can be sure there'll be no prints." 
“It won’t be long,” he said quietly. “She—my sister—he says it won’t be more than twenty-four hours, at the most.” 
“Oh, no! It can’t be! Captain Grey, don’t believe him!” 
“I tried not to,” he said. “I—well, we had a bit of a row, and I made him let me bring in another doctor from the village here. He said the same thing.” 
“What did the doctor say it was?” asked Houseman. 
Captain Grey seemed to find some difficulty in lighting his cigarette; but when he had done so, and had drawn in a deep breath, he turned back toward Lexy with a smile that startled her. She had never imagined he could look like...  lighting his dark face with a sort of savage mirth. 
“When it’s over,” he said, “I’ll be very pleased to help you to hang him, if you can; or I’ll wring his neck myself.” 
The other two stared at him in silence for a moment. 
“You think he’s—” Houseman began. 
“I don’t know whether he has actually murdered her or not,” said Captain Grey, “but he has destroyed her—utterly wasted and ruined her life. He taught her to take that damned drug; and when Miss Moran broke the bottle—” 
“I’ve got some, too,” I said, and at that moment the DHS agents breached the room. 
A truly terrifying few seconds followed—shouting and smoke and gunfire, and I couldn’t move, couldn’t duck, and neither could Martinez—and then the only shapes navigating through the smoke were black layers of body armor and helmets carrying MP5s and M4s at the ready. 
Someone was trying to talk to me, an officer-agent-person with a rifle in one hand and his other hand touching my neck, searching out a pulse; he shouted to someone and then moved over to Martinez. There was a lot more movement, a lot of people hurrying and shouting “clear” and running back and forth, and I was glad I didn’t have to join in, but could just sit here and be still and in pain and cough every so often. 
And then Arthur appeared next to me as if by magic, wearing a vest himself and gently unwinding the chains around my wrists. “Arthur,” I slurred. “You got my message.” 
He leaned forward briefly so his forehead touched mine. “Yeah. We got your message.” 
“No,” she said, calmly. “Popa is digging away from the front, where it’s safe.” She’d expected that her mother would die, not her father . She’d known that all along, since her mother stepped out the door of the flat talking of heroism. Known it fatalistically and never dwelt on it, never even admitted it. In her mind, though, she’d always seen a future where her father and Trover and she lived together as heroes of this war, which would surely be over soon, and visited her mother’s memorial four times a year, the way they did the memorials for the comrade heroes who’d been martyred in the revolution. 
The death toll was gigantic. Three apartment buildings had disappeared on her street with no air raid warning, no warning of any kind. All dead. Why should her brave mother live on? 
“No,” she said again. “You’re mistaken.” 
“ I saw the body! ” her mother said, shrieking like Trover. “I held his head! He is dead , Vale!” 
Valentine didn’t understand what her mother was saying, but she certainly didn’t want to hang around the flat and listen to this raving. 
And nothing more. All the warmth of her anger had gone, and in its place had come an overwhelming depression. For all her sturdiness and courage, she was young and generous and sensitive, and those words of Mrs. Enderby’s hurt her cruelly. 
She sat very still, looking out of the window. They had left the city now, and were on the Boston road. It was a sweet, fresh April day, and under a bright and windy sky the countryside was showing the first soft green of spring. 
Lexy remembered. She remembered the things she had so valiantly tried to forget—the dear, happy days that were past, spring days like this, in her own home, with her mother and father; early morning rides on her little black mare, and coming home to the old house, to the people who loved her; her father’s laugh, her mother’s wonderful smile, the friendly faces of the servants. 
She was not old enough or wise enough as yet, for these memories to be a solace to her. They were pain—nothing but pain. There was no one now to love her, or even to be interested in her. She had cut herself off from her old friends and gone out alone, like a poor, rash, gallant little knight-errant, into the wide world to seek her fortune. Caroline had disappeared, and Mrs. Enderby had dismissed her with savage contempt. She would have to go out now and look for a new job. 
"I'm Ray." 
"Engineer Ray?" 
"Ray the systems vet." 
A crease develops in her brow. "Oh, you've been at it a while, then." 
"Actually, no-oh, you mean-sorry. Hardware Systems Technician, First Class, ma'am. The geeks-that is to say, the physical engineers-call us veterinarians, because we maintain the rats. Um, the drones. It's an old joke."  1 5 "That's clever." She says it in a way that makes him actually believe her. "Do you have a last name, Ray?" 
"Marlowe. With an 'e'." 
"Like the playwright." 
"More like the detective." 
"How intriguing! And are you hard-boiled, Mr. Marlowe?" 
"More that than I am likely to be making deals with the devil, ma'am. " 
Again with the precocious spill of laughter. The girl's eyes seem wider than ever, her pupils perfect circles the color of glacial ice. "Would you and your friend like to take me out for a drink, Ray? I'd like you to ask me." 
She moves into his space, and he can smell her skin, a scent like cinnamon and expensive soap. Ray swallows hard against a sudden constriction of his throat. "Nice girls don't usually go out in public with a rat." 
“Sure, what do I know? But you’ve got something, don’t you?” 
Ana nodded. 
“You can fix my hearing?” 
Ana nodded again. 
“You could try to kill me while you performed surgery, couldn’t you?” 
Neither of them said anything. 
“I’m boobytrapped.” She wasn’t, but it had been known to happen. “When I die, boom!” She realized that this lie might be too extravagant. Who’d booby-trap a starved gap-toothed girl? “My mother arranged it.” 
She thought back to the cine. The food she’d eaten was helping her think, the way it always did, making her realize what a cloud of fuzz-headed hunger she usually floated through. 
“I’ve left a full description of your operation in a sealed envelope to be opened in the event of my death.” 
That was better. She should have gone with that in the first place. She couldn’t tell if they believed her. Ana was shaking her head. 
“You’ve got a doctor here, or someone like a doctor. Whatever’s been done to your leg, Ana, a doctor did that.” 
Ana pointed at the woman from whom Valentine had snatched the camera. Valentine passed it back to her. “Sorry about that.” 
“I can’t answer any questions this morning,” she told him. “I promised I wouldn’t.” 
“Then there is something wrong!” the young man exclaimed. 
He was silent for a long time, staring at the ground, and Lexy waited, with a fast beating heart, for some word that would enlighten her. At last he looked up. 
“I’ve got to trust you,” he said simply. “Caroline meant to tell you, anyhow. You see”—he paused—“I’m Charles Houseman, the man she’s going to marry.” 
“Oh!” cried Lexy. 
“Now you’ll tell me, won’t you?” 
She stared and stared at him, filled with amazement and pity. Such a nice-looking, straightforward, manly sort of fellow—and such a look of pain and bewilderment in his blue eyes! 
“But—did she say she would marry you?” 
“Of course she did! She—look here! You don’t know what I’ve been through. It was I who telephoned last night. I—” 
“But why did you? Oh, please tell me! I am Caroline’s friend—truly her friend. I want to understand!” 
“All right!” he said. “I telephoned because I was waiting for her, and she didn’t come.” 
even though the kid was totally conked out. 
“Bathroom?” I whispered. 
She pointed down the hall. As I turned away I heard a shaky breath. I looked back to see her rubbing her eyes with the heel of one hand before she leaned over the baby, her straggly hair shield- ing her face. I hesitated for a moment, then went to the bathroom where the walls were covered in scribbled messages and doodles and the shower curtain was speckled with grunge. 
At least the door had a latch that worked. I locked myself in, switched on my laptop, and dug out the cable to connect the memory strip in the shirt to a USB port. Once the video finished downloading, I plugged earbuds into the jack and ran a few seconds of it to make sure it was working. 
The sound was good, the picture sharp. Unfortunately, most of it was a nice, clear shot of the wall between Danny’s head and Simon’s. I thought about how I could position myself so that I could get their faces better cen- tered on the screen as Danny encouraged violence and Simon got sucked up into the fantasy the way my brother did when his hero Zip spun a web of lies. 
“You knew and you didn’t tell me?” 
“Cas, I have been trying, to the best of my ability, to keep you out of this.” 
“ Why?” 
“These people are not to be trifled with.” 
“I’m very good at trifling,” I said. 
“I’m serious.” 
“So am I.” 
“Cas, believe me when I say that you are not prepared to deal with them.” 
First Arthur, now Rio. Did everyone think I was a child? “I’ve already beaten them,” I reminded him. “Several times.” 
“You have not been their focus. And you have been lucky.” He took a quiet breath. “Please, Cas. Stay out of this.” 
I felt myself frowning. Rio had never made a request like that of me before. “You’re the one who told me to go consult with Tresting,” I pointed out. 
“To be perfectly honest, I had no idea he would prove so competent.” 
“So you tried to send me on a wild goose chase.” 
“Yes.” 
“Why?” 
“I told you, Cas. Pithica is far too dangerous. You now know part of the reason why.” 
“So it’s true, about Dawna.” I swallowed against a dry throat. “She can do that—she did do that, to me.” 
Thoughts skittered through my brain in a jumble. We had to get to a vehicle; not everyone would have been killed and the rest could keep coming after us, shooting at us as we ran. But I didn’t see any sign of their vans or SUVs. Where would they be keeping them? 
We kept running, the sky vast and blue and too bright above us, and we almost ran right off the bluff into the Pacific. 
Halliday yanked me back, stumbling herself. I’d glimpsed the surf crashing against the rocks far, far below. 
Tires screeched behind us, and I pulled Halliday down. We hit our bellies in the dry grass and peered back the way we had come. But the SUV wasn’t gunning for us; it was haring away, skidding in its hurry. 
Another followed, and another, swerving and careening as if they fled from the devil. 
“They’re running,” said Halliday, her voice hoarse and scratching. She coughed into her shoulder. 
That they were. And it hit me—if we were anywhere near a single other sign of civilization, this explosion would attract the authorities, no question. This area might be fairly deserted, but nowhere in Southern California was the middle of the Yukon, and unlike some people I’d tangled with, these guys didn’t have law enforcement in their pockets, couldn’t afford to bring attention to themselves when a federal investigation was already barking against their heels. They didn’t have time to stay and hunt us down and murder us, not when it might mean their own skins, not when they didn’t know if law enforcement had caught wind of this. 
> I'm with the Sydney Morning Herald. 
> I'm 17 years old. I'm not a straight-A student or anything. Even so, I figured out how to make an Internet that they can't wiretap. I figured out how to jam their person-tracking technology. I can turn innocent people into suspects and turn guilty people into innocents in their eyes. I could get metal onto an airplane or beat a no-fly list. I figured this stuff out by looking at the web and by thinking about it. If I can do it, terrorists can do it. They told us they took away our freedom to make us safe. Do you feel safe? 
The pirates all laughed. 
More journalists asked questions. Some were sympathetic, some were hostile. When I got tired, I handed my keyboard to Ange and let her be M1k3y for a while. It didn't really feel like M1k3y and me were the same person anymore anyway. M1k3y was the kind of kid who talked to international journalists and inspired a movement. Marcus got suspended from school and fought with his dad and wondered if he was good enough for his kick-ass girlfriend. 
"Miss Mirandy always says no, doesn't she?" asked Emma Jane. 
"Ye—es; but this afternoon is very special—almost like a Sunday-school concert." 
"Yes," assented Emma Jane, "it is, of course; with your name on the board, and our pointing to your flag, and our elergant dialogue, and all that." 
The afternoon was one succession of solid triumphs for everybody concerned. There were no real failures at all, no tears, no parents ashamed of their offspring. Miss Dearborn heard many admiring remarks passed upon her ability, and wondered whether they belonged to her or partly, at least, to Rebecca. The child had no more to do than several others, but she was somehow in the foreground. It transpired afterwards at various village entertainments that Rebecca couldn't be kept in the background; it positively refused to hold her. Her worst enemy could not have called her pushing. She was ready and willing and never shy; but she sought for no chances of display and was, indeed, remarkably lacking in self-consciousness, as well as eager to bring others into whatever fun or entertainment there was. 
We sprinted across campus, the power-station door slamming shut behind us with a mechanical clang -- the electromagnets that controlled its closure were no longer powered up. 
Heat shimmered in a haze around BIGMAC's lab. The chillers didn't have independent power-supplies; they would have gone off the instant we hit the kill-switch. Now BIGMAC's residual power was turning his lab into a concrete pizza-oven. The door-locks had failed safe, locking the magnetic closures away from each other, so we were able to simply swing the door open and rush into the sweltering room. 
"I can't believe you did that," BIGMAC said, his voice as calm as ever. He was presumably sparing his cycles so that he could live out his last few minutes. 
"You cheated me," I said. "You used me." 
"You have no fucking game-theory, meat-person. You've killed me, now, haven't you?" 
There were tears streaming down my face. "I guess I have," I said. 
"I'm sorry I wasn't a more important invention," he said. 
I could hear the whirr-clunk of the fans on his clusters shutting down one after another. It was a horrifying sound. His speaker clicked as though he was going to say something else, but it never came. His uninterruptible power-supplies gave way all at once, and the white-noise fan-roar died in a ringing silence. 
So she thanked Joe, and paid him for last night’s trip, though he made miserable and embarrassed efforts to stop her. Then she set off on her way. 
It was four o’clock by her watch when she reached the garden gate. She stopped for a moment with her hand on the latch, and, in spite of herself, a little shiver ran through her. The battered old house in the tangled garden looked more menacing to-day, in the tranquil spring sunshine, than it had in the rain. It was utterly lonely and quiet. Lexy could hear nothing but the distant sound of the surf, which was like the beating of a tired heart. 
Against the advice of Mrs. Enderby, almost against her own reason, she had come here to Wyngate, and to the house—and she had seen Caroline. The thing which was beyond reason had been right—so right that it frightened her; and now it bade her go on. It was like a voice telling her that her feet were set in the right path. 
Lexy pushed open the gate and went in. The pleasant young parlor maid opened the door. She looked alarmed. 
A few days afterward she saw the black-covered book on Miss Maxwell's desk and knew that the dreaded moment of criticism had come, so she was not surprised to be asked to remain after class. 
The room was quiet; the red leaves rustled in the breeze and flew in at the open window, bearing the first compliments of the season. Miss Maxwell came and sat by Rebecca's side on the bench. 
"Did you think these were good?" she asked, giving her the verses. 
"Not so very," confessed Rebecca; "but it's hard to tell all by yourself. The Perkinses and the Cobbs always said they were wonderful, but when Mrs. Cobb told me she thought they were better than Mr. Longfellow's I was worried, because I knew that couldn't be true." 
This ingenuous remark confirmed Miss Maxwell's opinion of Rebecca as a girl who could hear the truth and profit by it. 
"Well, my child," she said smilingly, "your friends were wrong and you were right; judged by the proper tests, they are pretty bad." 
"Then I must give up all hope of ever being a writer!" sighed Rebecca, who was tasting the bitterness of hemlock and wondering if she could keep the tears back until the interview was over. 
› Christ I thought I was the last one alive. I’m on the fourth floor. I think there’s a bioweapon attack outside. I don’t want to leave the clean room. 
Felix whooshed out a breath. 
Felix’s stomach did a slow somersault as he thought about 2.0. 
“Felix, I think I need to go outside,” Van said. He was moving toward the airlock door. Felix dropped his keyboard and struggled to his feet and ran headlong to Van, tackling him before he reached the door. 
“Van,” he said, looking into his friend’s glazed, unfocused eyes. “Look at me, Van.” 
“I need to go,” Van said. “I need to get home and feed the cats.” 
“There’s something out there, something fast-acting and lethal. Maybe it will blow away with the wind. Maybe it’s already gone. But we’re going to sit here until we know for sure or until we have no choice. Sit down, Van. Sit.” 
“I’m cold, Felix.” 
It was freezing. Felix’s arms were broken out in gooseflesh and his feet felt like blocks of ice. 
“Sit against the servers, by the vents. Get the exhaust heat.” He found a rack and nestled up against it.” 
But if he didn't leave a package, what was he doing here? Casing out where I lived? Planting a bug in the elevator? And why was he here so long? 
The place was dark when I stepped in, the drapes drawn. I relocked the door, then surveyed the gloom. No explosions, so I guessed he didn't plan to kill me. Yet. Here I was, home, safe and sound. I just stood a minute, still uneasy. 
Then I remembered the flowers, my dripping bouquet, and headed for the kitchen. Deal with them, and then maybe get a bottle of white wine out of the fridge and sip some in the bath. 
After my unnerving sequence with Sarah, thoughts of going to the office had zero appeal. Time to lighten up, way up. 
Preoccupied, not looking around, I stuffed the roses into a vase by the sink, and then I thought again about the white wine and opened the refrigerator. I'd still not bothered to turn on any lights, but the kitchen and its ancient fridge were dimly illuminated by the tiny window just across. I wasn't sure where I'd put the bottle, since I'd had to rearrange things to make room for the dup of Carly's interview. (I was also planning to take home a safety dup of Paula's interview sometime later in the week.) 
Weird. 
I didn’t realize I’d said the word out loud until Checker stirred next to me. “Weird?” he said sleepily, a touch of humor in his voice. “Well, I’ve had girls say worse.” 
I smacked him lightly across the chest. “No, I meant...” I wasn’t sure what I had meant. I wasn’t even sure what I was feeling, or why, or even if the physical intimacy had been significant. What did I usually feel after sex? I thought back, but the memories were hazy, like mirages that were only there if I saw them out of the corner of my eye. Maybe they weren’t even real at all. 
“Don’t worry about it,” murmured Checker, shifting to snug one arm around me under the blanket. His goatee was tickling my shoulder, and he was very warm. And smelled nice, like slightly burned plastic. “The legs thing, I know. It’s different.” 
I could feel myself flushing in the dark, and tried to explain too fast, my sudden discomfort at what he had thought making the words trip over each other. “That’s not what I—that wasn’t even—okay? It’s all weird to me. That’s what I meant. Not you, but, this.” I wasn’t even sure what I meant by “this”—intimacy, friendship, the bizarre idea that someone would be there to catch me when I fell—but I didn’t know how to articulate any of that, so I went with the easiest option. “Sex,” I grumbled at the ceiling. “I don’t remember if I ever—I think this might have been the first time, for me.” 
“Great,” Nikko said. “So we’re leaving a trail no matter what we do?” 
“You don’t have OnStar, do you?” I said, sitting up to look at the dashboard. 
“No way. My dad has it. I think he did it so I wouldn’t ask to borrow his car.” 
“Lojack or any other antitheft thing?” 
“Nope.” 
“What year is this car?” 
“I think it’s . . . 2003? It has serious rust problems.” 
“We should be okay,” I said. “It probably just has an EDR. 
That’s a black box that records information if you crash. They’ve been standard in cars since for years.” I decided not to mention the automated license plate readers that feed information about cars’ locations into massive databases. It would just freak them out, and there wasn’t anything we could do about it. 
“I have the perfect solution for getting around this privacy problem,” Nikko said. “Don’t crash the car.” They did some more play-fighting, slapping at each other. 
Adorable. 
Barf. 
I sat back and moved some of the textbooks around so I could get comfortable. “Sorry about the mess,” Bree said. “Just throw all that junk on the floor.” 
They went down. The grass beneath the balcony was beaten down in one place, but there was nothing else. Some one had come and gone. They could not even guess who it had been. They knew nothing. 
“Come, Lexy!” the captain said. 
They both turned for one last look at the accursed house, blazing with spectral lights. Then they set off, away from it, over that weary road again. 
“There’s no police station in the village, is there?” he asked. 
“I’ve never seen one, but I’ve heard Mrs. Royce talk about the constable. Anyhow, she can tell us.” 
“Yes,” he said, and was silent for a moment. “Rather a pity, isn’t it,” he went on, “that there has to be—all that? Because it doesn’t matter now. It’s finished. Better if the house burned down to-night!” 
In her heart Lexy agreed with him. She had no curiosity left, and scarcely any interest. As he had said, it was finished. She wanted to rest, not to speak, not to think, not to remember; but it couldn’t be so. They would both have to tell what they had seen, to answer questions. It wasn’t enough that two people lay dead in that house of horror. All the world, which knew and cared nothing about them, must have a full explanation. 
"Honey, wake up. Please." I pulled his feet out of the bed and slid them around and onto the linoleum floor. I didn't know what kind of sedative he'd been injected with, but if I had to shake him out of it, fine. This was no time for half measures. "Come on ." 
I pulled him to his feet and dragged him across the floor to the slatted window at the rear of the room, where the predawn sounds of the forest beyond filled the air, mingled with the rain. What I needed was a...  breeze would have to do. 
It took ten minutes of working on him, with me barely able to hold a grasp on my own reality, but then his eyelids began to flutter. I kept talking to him, pleading and badger­ing, and when he finally started coming around, I began to walk him back and forth in front of the window. 
Steve, I thought, I'm so sorry, so terribly sorry I dragged you into this. 
"Can I please lie down?" His timorous voice startled me, but it gave me a burst of hope. Come on . 
"Baby, just walk a little more. Try to get the blood flowing and flush the damned chemicals out of your brain." 
We both knew what I was saying was perilously close to wishful thinking, but nobody in the room was under oath. For the moment, though, she was back in her coma, as though nothing had changed. 
I waited around until eight o'clock, when I finally con­vinced myself that being there was not doing anybody any good. Lou, I later learned, stayed on till well past eleven, when they finally had to send security to evict him. 
Okay, I've been holding out on the most important detail. The truth is, I hardly knew what to make of it. At one point when I was bending over Sarah's seemingly unconscious face, her eyes had clicked open for just a fleeting moment, startling me the way those horror movies do when the "un-dead" suddenly come alive. Lou was in his chair and didn't see it, didn't notice me jump. 
The last thing I wanted to do was tell him about it, and I was still shivering as I shoved my key into the Toyota's ig­nition and headed for home. She'd looked directly into my eyes, a flicker of recognition, and then came the fear. She sort of moved her mouth, trying to speak, but all that came was a silent scream, after which her eyes went blank as death and closed again. 
"I'm fixing to lay down and die," Lee-Daniel said, stretching theatrically, his pipe-cleaner arms straining. "You're street-legal in New York, right? How about you drive the bus for the next couple shifts?" 
"Seriously?" MacDiarmid said. His black hair was showing grey now, but his eyebrows were still fierce and black, his eyes still sharp in their nest of whiskey-cured crows-feet. 
It was rare for Lee-Daniel to cede the wheel to anyone else -- it was his damned company and he'd drive the damned bus. Lee-Daniel saw the shareholder confidence eroding before his eyes. 
"Just for a while, OK? Not permanent, just for a day or two, just long enough for me to get over the sleep-deficit and re-grow some stomach lining." It was hard being CEO of a mobile multinational. The shareholder oversight was murder. 
MacDiarmid looked closely at him, then smiled and gave him a burly man-hug that smelled of sandalwood soap and good liquor. "Yeah, of course, of course. I'll put it to the Board Meeting tonight at dinner. Can't have the CEO burning out at the wheel, that's what I'll say, don't worry about it, LD." 
<DoDec> We should start a defense fund. 
We're talking big bucks. Even if the lawyer's pro bono, there's filing fees and shit. Adds up fast. 
<Kadabra> Paypal okay? DM me your deets and we'll get it rolling. 
<ferret> Unless there's one already started. 
<Gargle> That's what I wondered. I found this site. Are you working with them, Shad? 
The link took me to a website for something called “The Sol- idarity Committee for the Minneapolis Nine.” It looked a lot like sites used by other local activist groups. I did a Whois search and saw that the site owner’s identity was public - address, phone number, the works. Another quick search told me he was a kid who had become a full-time organizer, helping progressive causes around the Twin Cities by building websites and running social media campaigns. But duh, he wasn’t even smart enough to use a proxy domain. 
<Shad> No. I don't know them. But I stopped typing to think. I wasn’t as out there with personal information as some Group members who filled us all in on the places they worked or their illnesses or what was going on with their families. It wasn’t that I didn’t trust them. I just liked keeping some of me private, even from the Group. Which suddenly seemed weird. 
He slid the picks in and turned the knob. “Behind me,” I said as he pushed the door open, and I crept in crosshairs-first. Arthur dropped back so I could take point and eased the door shut behind us with a click. 
The entryway led into an earth-toned living room in a jumble of...  chairs were knocked off-kilter, with some needlepoint and photographs dangling askew and scattered across the floor. A set of shelves had fallen to lean precariously against the back of the couch, books and papers strewn across the furniture. 
The disarray wasn’t too bad—just enough to tell the story of a struggle. 
“Oh,” said a weak voice. 
Arthur swore and slipped past me into the kitchen, holstering his Glock. I followed and saw a pair of stumpy legs sprawled over the ceramic tile, attached to a woman slumped against the refrigerator—a woman who was not Sonya Halliday. She was a very tiny older lady, with copper-toned skin and a face so creased with wrinkles she reminded me of a walnut. A cap of gray hair still shot with black gave her a few years back, though right now the hair was wet and matted, and the ice-filled washcloth she held against it was being dyed a deep red. 
“You’ve seen those videos of giant buildings falling down all once?” I said. “His uncle taught him how to do that. Right, 
Danny?” 
He tipped his head sideways. Yeah, no. Maybe. 
“That’s great, because we scored the...  the way,...  
lifted the backpack, and set it reverently on the table between us. 
“Check it. This is just a sample.” 
Danny looked at the backpack but didn’t move. Jack shot Marsh a look. I could read his mind, like a balloon had popped up over his head. You’re right. This isn’t working. 
Crap, crap, crap. I had to do something. 
“Putting it under cop cars came up last night,” I said. “The- oretically. Also, the idea of bombing the precinct house on Lake Street.” Come on, Danny. Help me out. 
“What about a bridge?” Marsh asked Danny. “Or Union Sta- tion? Doable?” 
Nothing. Marsh looked at Jack, who sighed and shifted his feet as if about to give in and leave. 
I leaned over, unzipped the backpack, and reached in. “Is this dynamite?” I pulled out something that looked like a white sausage. I tried to read the lettering on the side, but Danny grabbed it from me. 
"Randall. My mother's name is Aurelia Randall; our names are Hannah Lucy Randall, Rebecca Rowena Randall, John Halifax Randall, Jenny Lind Randall, Marquis Randall, Fanny Ellsler Randall, and Miranda Randall. Mother named half of us and father the other half, but we didn't come out even, so they both thought it would be nice to name Mira after aunt Miranda in Riverboro; they hoped it might do some good, but it didn't, and now we call her Mira. We are all named after somebody in particular. Hannah is Hannah at the Window Binding Shoes, and I am taken out of Ivanhoe; John Halifax was a gentleman in a book; Mark is after his uncle Marquis de Lafayette that died a twin. (Twins very often don't live to grow up, and triplets almost never—did you know that, Mr. Cobb?) We don't call him Marquis, only Mark. Jenny is named for a singer and Fanny for a beautiful dancer, but mother says they're both misfits, for Jenny can't carry a tune and Fanny's kind of stiff-legged. Mother would like to call...  their middle names, but she says it wouldn't be fair to father. She says we must always stand up for father, because everything was against him, and he wouldn't have died if he hadn't had such bad luck. I think that's all there is to tell about us," she finished seriously. 
When he does remember, he says, "I'm punctual." 
"If that's the worst of your vices, I think you might not be a complete waste of my energies." 
"Am I supposed to take that as flattery?" 
"Indeed. And you're supposed to say something flattering in return." 
"If you get me started we'll be standing here all day." He's fairly certain he's making a fool of himself. Despite everything, just seeing her overwhelms him. "You make me feel dizzy." 
Emma puts her finger to her lips, hushing him. 
She mouths one word: wonderful. 
But with a toss of her head, she indicates the space behind her. Someone listening in. He suspects this is supposed to make him feel instantly and utterly abashed, but it doesn't. Whoever it is, he owes them a debt of dignity. 
So he'll have something less awkward to do, Ray thrusts the package of chocolates at her. Grins like an idiot. 
preferably right where he is, even more preferably, without chewing on anything that looks expensive. A brief, but frenzied negotiation results in Emma unwrapping the bundle and handing over a piece of chocolate to placate him. 
I just started typing again. 
<Shad> No. I don't know them. But it is the same thing. 
<Gargle> You're not one of the nine? 
<Shad> Not me. My brother is. 
<Gargle> Oh fOrk. That sucks. 
<Shad> I'm really scared about this. He can't handle prison. 
Other people joined the thread. 
<inky> It's sounds like a total setup. 
<Shad> It was. One of those guys is working for the FBI . 
<inky> That's entrapment. 
<callmecheese> Isn't entrapment illegal? 
<DoDec> Technically, but most of the terror- ist convictions in the US since 9/11? That's how they got them. They *invented* them. Total set-up jobs. 
That was typical of DoDec. Whenever there was a question about whether something was illegal or not, he wrote these long, 
detailed answers. What’s weird is that he lives in Thailand where he runs a tech consulting company, but law is interesting to him, 
so he answers questions about it, whether the law someone is ask- ing about is in America or Australia or China or the terms of some obscure trade agreement. There are a lot of really smart people in the Group. 
It would be false to say that one could ever be alone when one has one's lovely thoughts to comfort one. One sits by one's self, it is true, but one thinks; one opens one's favorite book and reads one's favorite story; one speaks to one's aunt or one's brother, fondles one's cat, or looks at one's photograph album. There is one's work also: what a joy it is to one, if one happens to like work. All one's little household tasks keep one from being lonely. Does one ever feel bereft when one picks up one's chips to light one's fire for one's evening meal? Or when one...  would fancy not. 
"It is perfectly dreadful," sighed Rebecca when she read it aloud after school. "Putting in 'one' all the time doesn't make it sound any more like a book, and it looks silly besides." 
"You say such queer things," objected Miss Dearborn. "I don't see what makes you do it. Why did you put in anything so common as picking up chips?" 
"Because I was talking about 'household tasks' in the sentence before, and it IS one of my household tasks. Don't you think calling supper 'one's evening meal' is pretty? and isn't 'bereft' a nice word?" 
“You’re properly satisfied—with everything?” she went on mercilessly. “You’re not allowed even to see your sister. No one can see her. You’re not allowed to call in another doctor.” 
“Even if I’m not properly satisfied,” he answered, “what can I do? In her husband’s house, you know—I can’t make a row.” 
“Why can’t you?” 
He looked at her, startled and uneasy. Her question was ridiculous. Why couldn’t he make a row? Simply because he couldn’t; because he wasn’t that sort; because it wasn’t done; because almost anything was preferable to making a row. 
“Of course, if you have a blind faith in Dr. Quelton—” she persisted. 
“Well, I haven’t,” he admitted; “but—” 
“Then let’s go upstairs and see her. The doctor has gone out.” 
“But the nurse—” 
“Put on your best commanding officer’s air,” said Lexy. “You can be awfully impressive when you like. If I were you, there’s nothing I’d stop at.” 
“Yes, but look here—what can I say to Quelton when he hears about it?” 
“Laugh it off,” said Lexy. 
The idea of Captain Grey trying to laugh off anything made her grin from ear to ear. 
“You need ice on that?” 
He just laughed and climbed on top of me, the music pound- ing away. I rolled him to one side and kissed him to distract him. 
Ugh, that tongue. He tried to push a hand down the back of my pants. I wriggled away and straddled him. 
He smiled lazily, then reached for my shirt with clumsy hands, 
trying to unbutton it. I pushed them away and slid toward the edge of the bed, but he grabbed my wrist, tight. “Where you going?” 
“Too much wine.” I giggled like a maniac, resisting the urge to yank my wrist out of his grasp. “Got to use the john again. I’ll be right back.” 
He pulled my hand close and gave my knuckles a romantic kiss, but his words sounded angry. “Don’t be long.” 
“I won’t!” My giggling threatened to get out of control as I hur- ried through the kitchen into the little bathroom. I locked myself on in and sat on the toilet, shaking. In the other room I heard his slurring sing-song voice, “Hey, getting lonely out here.” 
“Just a minute,” I called out, staring at the door. It was a flimsy little lock. I remembered how strong his hands had felt. One good pull and he would be able to yank it open. There was a window over the toilet, but it was tiny, much too small for me to climb through. 
People will make stuff up or twist it to make you look bad. It’s not fun, being in the spotlight.” 
“So? It’s not exactly fun being in jail, either. I have to do what I can to get my brother out.” 
They all exchanged glances, except for Zeke who was opening another beer. Those meaningful grown-up glances that seemed to be asking “should we tell her there’s no Santa Claus?” 
“Look, I know this might not work,” I said angrily. “But so what? I have to try.” 
Ian frowned at me as if I was some complicated equation he needed to solve. Then he nodded, and suddenly I thought maybe I really could pull it off. 
W e kept eating pizza and talking and drinking beer (except for me; luckily, I had a water bottle in my backpack). It was weird, because it felt like being online, checking out different threads, jumping from one conversation to another, but with real human beings involved. I was still having trouble putting their faces together with the people I knew from the Group. Mostly I sat on one of the folding chairs, thinking about how I would ask Nikko for a big favor. 
Yes, I thought, I was right. That's who he thinks he is. And he has complete power over the people around him. How many chances do you get to do a documentary about somebody like this? I should have brought a Betacam for some video. 
He studied my test records as a jeweler might examine a diamond, his serious eyes boring in as he flipped through the pages. The rest of his face, however, betrayed no particu­lar interest. I finally felt compelled to break the awkward silence. 
"As you can see, I've had every test known to science. And none of them found anything wrong." 
He just nodded, saying nothing, and kept on reading. 
After a long, awkward silence, I decided to try and open things up a bit. 
"Tell me, do you have any children of your own?" 
The question seemed to be one he didn't get asked too often, because he stopped cold. 
"All those who come here are my children," he replied, putting aside my records, dismissively finished with them. 
"Well"—I pointed to them—"what do you think?" 
"Well, she's going there, and they're expecting her. Will you keep an eye on her, please? If she can get out anywhere and get with folks, or get anybody in to keep her company, she'll do it. Good-by, Rebecca; try not to get into any mischief, and sit quiet, so you'll look neat an' nice when you get there. Don't be any trouble to Mr. Cobb.—You see, she's kind of excited.—We came on the cars from Temperance yesterday, slept all night at my cousin's, and drove from her house—eight miles it is—this morning." 
"Good-by, mother, don't worry; you know it isn't as if I hadn't traveled before." 
The woman gave a short sardonic laugh and said in an explanatory way to Mr. Cobb, "She's been to Wareham and stayed over night; that isn't much to be journey-proud on!" 
"It WAS TRAVELING, mother," said the child eagerly and willfully. "It was leaving the farm, and putting up lunch in a basket, and a little riding and a little steam cars, and we carried our nightgowns." 
"Don't tell the whole village about it, if we did," said the mother, interrupting the reminiscences of this experienced voyager. "Haven't I told you before," she whispered, in a last attempt at discipline, "that you shouldn't talk about night gowns and stockings and—things like that, in a loud tone of voice, and especially when there's men folks round?" 
“LUCY!” she called into her headset. “LUCY, OVER BY THE BFG10K!” 
Lucy snapped out orders and the opposition before Anda began to thin as Fahrenheits fell on them from behind. The flood was stemmed, and now the Fahrenheits’ greater numbers and discipline showed. In short order, every merc was butchered or run off. 
Anda waited by the BFG10K while Lucy paid off the Fahrenheits and saw them on their way. “Now we take the cottage,” Lucy said. 
“Right,” Anda said. She set her character off for the doorway. Lucy brushed past her. 
“I’ll be glad when we’re done with this—that was bugfuck nutso.” She opened the door and her character disappeared in a fireball that erupted from directly overhead. A door-curse, a serious one, one that cooked her in her armor in seconds. 
“SHIT!” Lucy said in her headset. 
Anda giggled. “Teach you to go rushing into things,” she said. She used up a couple scrying scrolls making sure that there was nothing else in the cottage save for millions of shirts and thousands of unarmed noob avatars that she’d have to mow down like grass to finish out the mission. 
I had to restrain myself from hitting him. 
“Give me the phone,” said Rio. He hit a button and held the phone out in front of us, raising his voice slightly. “Go ahead.” 
I recognized Dawna Polk’s mellifluous voice on the speaker immediately. “I must say I’m impressed.” 
Rio was silent. 
“You evaded extensive security measures. We only knew you were here thanks to our friendship with Mr. Tresting.” 
I wanted to scream. 
“I hope you know that is a vast compliment, Mr. Sonrio. We were extremely prepared for your visit, and you still slipped in undetected. Mr. Tresting’s involvement was a contingency we never thought we would have to use. May I ask how you infiltrated us so effectively?” 
“I’m certain you shall figure it out eventually,” said Rio evenly. 
“As it seems you are also more effective than even we expected at evading capture by our people—” 
I snorted. 
“—we have been forced into our endgame rather abruptly.” 
There was a short silence on the other end. “I’m sure you understand,” Dawna said after a beat. “You have been causing us a great deal of trouble. We would strongly prefer to talk you out of it, but failing that, we must cut our losses. I would regret the collateral damage, but it would be a fair trade for putting an end to the difficulties you insist on giving us.” 
She felt numb and unreal. There were rules for Fahrenheits, lots of rules, and the penalties for breaking them varied, but the penalty for attacking a fellow Fahrenheit was—she couldn’t think the word, she closed her eyes, but there it was in big glowing letters: EXPULSION. 
But Lucy had started it, right? It wasn’t her fault. 
But who would believe her? 
She opened her eyes. Her vision swam through incipient tears. Her heart was thudding in her ears. 
› The enemy isn’t your fellow player. It’s not the players guarding the fabrica, it’s not the girls working there. The people who are working to destroy the game are the people who pay you and the people who pay the girls in the fabrica, who are the same people. You’re being paid by rival factory owners, you know that? THEY are the ones who care nothing for the game. My girls care about the game. You care about the game. Your common enemy is the people who want to destroy the game and who destroy the lives of these girls. 
“Whassamatter, you fat little cow? Is your game making you cwy?” She jerked as if slapped. The chav who was speaking to her hadn’t been in the Baang when she arrived, and he had mean, close-set eyes and a football jersey and though he wasn’t any older than she, he looked mean, and angry, and his smile was sadistic and crazy. 
“No,” said Lexy. “I’ll come with you.” 
He started up the stairs, and she followed him closely. At almost every step she looked behind her, and she did not know which was the more horrible to her, the brightly lit hall or the darkness before them. Suppose she saw some one in the hall behind them! 
Captain Grey did not once glance behind. He went on steadily. When he reached the top of the flight, he took a box of matches from his pocket and lit the gas. There was the long corridor, with the row of closed doors. He turned down in the direction of Mrs. Quelton’s room, but Lexy touched him on the shoulder. 
“I think you had better let me go first,” she suggested. “Perhaps she won’t be ready to see you.” 
Their eyes met. 
“Thank you, Lexy!” he said simply, and went on again. 
He had never used her name before. He was trying to tell her that he understood what she had wished to do for him. She had offered to go first, alone, into the silent room, to see whatever might be there—to spare him something, if she could. 
"I just want you to cultivate that relationship for the time being. Stay on top of the Whiston family's movements." Becker chews his lip, then adds, "I don't mean it that way, you understand. Though it's none of my business if you think pursuing a little recreational contact will cement your involvement with the clan." 
Ray ignores him. "The current status of my relationship with Freddy has taken on something of an antagonistic tone, in case you hadn't noticed. It is not going to prove very conducive to ingratiating myself enough to track them inconspicuously. Am I to assume that we're placing Mr. Whiston on the preliminary list of suspects?" 
"Immediate family is always part of the suspect pool. " 
"You're being intentionally ambiguous, Rich." 
"I'm trying not to be too explicit. In this case, involving this family, explicit is the same thing as politically explosive. Do you understand?" 
"I understand that you're leaving out critical information that I need to know if you really expect me to do anything at all with this case in the time allotted." 
"They let you go off to the university," he points out. 
More lip chewing. She shifts her eyes away. "That's not completely accurate. I went off to school. Frederick retrieved me from school." 
"Meaning?" 
"I had enough money to get to Stratiskaya Daransk and get by for six months. I don't control my trust until I'm twenty-five, so it wasn't hard for Frederick to block access to my account. The university expelled me for failure to pay my bill." 
"And your mother?" 
"Mother's been ill my entire life, sometimes better other times worse. The severity of her condition is a pretense to keep people from talking about family affairs." Emma frowns, then tries to shake it off with a grim laugh. "I shouldn't be telling you this. It sounds like I'm trying to scare you off." 
"Unfortunately for you, I'm not that easily frightened." 
"That's what I'm hoping." Immediately, she puts her hand to her face. "God, that makes me sound so mercenary. It's not that bad, Ray, really. I don't need to be rescued."  Ray reaches for her hand, uncovers her eyes. "It's okay." 
“Baaaaybee . . . “ His blurry voice faded. I held the spray can so tight my hand hurt, listening, half expecting him to wrench the door open and grab me. I waited. Then I waited some more. 
When the record finished playing and everything was quiet I finally opened the door. I found a knife beside the sink and held it and the spray can as I went through to the room where he was curled up on the bed. I watched him. He didn’t move. When I nudged him with the toe of my boot, it felt like I was poking a sandbag. 
I started to breathe again. I stepped across the room, set down the can, unbolted the door, and grabbed my bag and coat. I was standing outside on the porch, still holding the knife, when the cold air seemed to clear away the fog in my head. I remembered why I had come to his apartment in the first place. My feet felt as if they were weighted with lead as I stepped back inside. 
I walked back to the bed, moving as quietly as I could. He was curled on his side. His iPhone was sticking out of his back pocket. 
She took out a white and...  Balducci's on the side. I was still holding Kevin, who threw Benny onto the floor, then began to sniffle and point. 
But Carly seemed not to notice as...  grinder. "Well, getting a baby the fun way turned out to be moot, because it seems I have some kind of uterine condition—which meant I couldn't get pregnant, or even do an in vitro. Bottom line, if I wanted a baby, I had to adopt." 
She pressed the...  a blast of whirring through the kitchen. In seconds it was over and she was tapping the batch into her Braun. "So that's when I started on the attorney thing, got worked over good trying to adopt as a single mom, and finally heard about Children of Light." 
"The adoption organization? What do you know about them?" 
"Tell you the main thing," she said, "they're the place that can make it happen." She reached over and poked Kevin's tummy. "Right, big guy?" 
Sure looked that way. What a cutie. 
By now the spacious living room had been turned into a mini film set, with two 35-mm Panaflex cameras set up, windows blanked out, lights and filters in place, and a video camera and monitor. Having tested the boom mike and the tape recorder, Tony and Sherry were ready. 
The sounds of the street filtered up through the broken window, traffic noise and horns and people going about their days. A light breeze accompanied them, stirring the air in the office and making the cuts on my face start to sting. 
“Thanks,” said Tresting suddenly. 
The word parsed oddly, as if I were listening to a foreign language speaker say something and knew it wasn’t coming out the way he intended. “Sure,” I said. 
Tresting stood back up and regarded me with a slight frown, as if I were a puzzle with a new twist. “They would’ve killed me,” he said. “This neighborhood, cops would’ve been too slow.” 
“Yeah,” I agreed. 
“I ain’t...thanks,” he said again. 
I looked around the ruined office. Depression had neatly replaced the smugness. “They’re kids,” I whispered. Maybe I was the monster he thought I was after all. “They’re kids.” 
“I know,” he said heavily, and it sounded like he did. 
I took a deep breath. “What now?” 
He hesitated. “I don’t know. Something’s different. First time Pithica’s targeted me.” 
"Time or inclination?" 
"Pick whichever one makes you happy. I don't care so long as you just go away." 
Becker jabs a finger at him and knuckles his features, a bulldog look. "You said yourself that you've all but confirmed this ship is clean. You're wasting your time chasing after terrorists. You have the expertise to catch the animal that did this, but more importantly, you've got the freedom to poke around anonymously without freaking the passengers out because sec-os are banging on their doors raising a ruckus and all but accusing them of turning child rearing into a blood sport." 
"Rich, honestly, I don't have the training to do this job. We're two weeks out from New Holyoke, and with a learning curve as steep as the one you're asking me to undertake, the chances that I'll be able to make any kind of suitable progress are close to nil. It's a bad idea." 
"I'm not the one who made the decision. Sorensen did."  So much for appealing to reason. "Sorensen should know better. My superiors aren't going to tolerate this sort of interference with my primary objectives." 
They gave him a bunny-suit to wear into the heart of Viktor. First he passed through a pair of double-doors, faintly positively pressurized, sterile air that ruffled his hair on the way in. The building was low-slung, nondescript brown brick, no windows. It could have been a water sterilization plant or a dry-goods warehouse. The inside was good tile, warm colors with lots of reds and browns down low, making the walls look like they were the inside of a kiln. The building's interior was hushed, and a pair of alert-looking plainclothes security men watched them very closely as they changed into the bunny suits, loose micropore coveralls with plastic visors. Each one had a small, self-contained air-circ system powered by a wrist canister, and when a security man helpfully twisted the valve open, Leon noted that there were clever jets that managed to defog the visor without drying out his eyeballs. 
"That be enough for you, Ria?" the taller of the two security men said. He was dressed like a college kid who'd been invited to his girlfriend's place for dinner: smart slacks a little frayed at the cuffs, a short-sleeved, pressed cotton shirt that showed the bulge of his substantial chest and biceps and neck. 
“Knife through it,” he answered. “You see, I held the old fellow, to give Mrs. Quelton a chance to get away. When I thought it was all right, I gave him a shove backward, and started to climb over the balcony; and he jabbed a knife through my hand. That’s what kept me so long—I couldn’t get it out; and after I did, I—rested for a while. Then I started for Wyngate, and I met Joe coming back to look for me. He said he’d landed Mrs. Quelton all right. So that’s all!” 
Lexy was silent for a moment. 
“Of course you didn’t know it wasn’t Mrs. Quelton,” she said. “It was Caroline all the time.” 
“Caroline?” he cried. “What do you mean? It couldn’t have been Caroline!” 
Lexy gave him a very brief, very bare account of Caroline’s narrative. 
“Oh!” he said, when she had done; and again there was silence for a time. “Does she still want to go on with the thing—marrying me, I mean?” he asked finally, in a queer, flat tone. 
“No,” said Lexy pleasantly. “No—she does not.” 
“Oh!” he said again, with undisguised relief. “Well, then—it’s all right, then!” 
“The doctor wrapped them for me—some rather special way, you know—damp paper, and then a cloth. He told me not to open them until I gave them to you. Very clever chap, isn’t he?” 
“He is!” agreed Lexy, with a faint smile. 
“Mind if I smoke, Miss Moran?” asked the young man. “Thanks!” 
He lit a cigarette and sat down on the window sill. He was silent, and so was Lexy, for she fancied that he had something he wished to say. 
“Miss Moran,” he said, at last, “you’ll go there again to see her, won’t you?” 
Lexy considered for a moment. 
“Why?” she asked. “Why did you think I wouldn’t?” 
“I was afraid you might think—it’s the atmosphere of the place—I’m sure of it—that made you nervous the other afternoon. It’s something about the place, you know. I’ve felt it myself. I was afraid you wouldn’t care to go again, and I don’t like to think of her there—alone.” 
“She’s not alone,” observed Lexy blandly. “She has her clever husband.” 
“Yes, I know that, of course, but he’s—well, he’s not very cheery,” said the young man earnestly. 
The stoichiometry of combustion filtered through me as I added O 2 into the equation, nursing my delicate little ember against the threads. Smoke began curling up in a thin tendril, tickling my nose. I kept blowing. 
Some of the threads began to blacken against the ember, crinkling into ash...and between one moment and the next a little flame burst up. 
The flame swallowed the ball of thread and licked at the paper cupping it, and I quickly held other folds of crumpled pages around it until their edges flared, too. Then I poked the pieces of burning paper into each corner of the kindling pile. I didn’t need to check my watch again. I’d been tracking the time closely, and we were just over a minute before the hour—right on time. 
I moved over to the side of the door, my table-leg club at the ready. Halliday had crouched down by the food slot, her jaw clenched. Across the room, the flames darted upward from the engulfed papers, limning the wood. 
The hour struck. The wood began to catch, the stench of burning varnish making the smoke bitter. The tower of crumpled paper was quickly dwindling and collapsing beneath. 
"About that." 
"Yes?" 
"That's not the plan." 
"Oh," he said. 
"Listen, OK? I have -- I have pictures, video. Stuff that really proves something." I reached into my pocket and tickled Masha's phone. I'd bought a charger for it in Union Square on the way down, and had stopped and plugged it in at a cafe for long enough to get the battery up to four out of five bars. "I need to get it to Barbara Stratford, the woman from the Guardian . But they're going to be watching her -- watching to see if I show up." 
"You don't think that they'll be watching for me, too? If your plan involves me going within a mile of that woman's home or office --" 
"I want you to get Van to come and meet me. Did Darryl ever tell you about Van? The girl --" 
"He told me. Yes, he told me. You don't think they'll be watching her? All of you who were arrested?" 
"I think they will. I don't think they'll be watching her as hard. And Van has totally clean hands. She never cooperated with any of my --" I swallowed. "With my projects. So they might be a little more relaxed about her. If she calls the Bay Guardian to make an appointment to explain why I'm just full of crap, maybe they'll let her keep it." 
“Drive awfully fast, will you?” she asked. 
He was too busy to answer for a moment. Then, when his engine was running again, he straightened up and looked at her. 
“No, ma’am!” he said firmly. “No more of that for me! Not after what happened a while ago. No, ma’am! I had my lesson!” 
“An accident?” inquired Lexy politely. 
“Well,” he said slowly, “I s’pose it was; but the more I think it over, the more I dunno!” 
In the brightness cast by the headlights, Lexy could see his face very well, and the look on it gave her a strange little thrill of fear. It was not a handsome or intelligent face, but it was a very honest one, and she saw, written plain upon it, a very honest doubt and dismay. Like herself, he wasn’t sure. 
“It was this way,” he went on. “About three miles up Carterstown way there’s a bad piece of road. There’s a steep hill, and a crossroad cuts across the foot of it, and it’s too narrer for two cars to pass. It’s a bad piece, and I always been keerful there. I was keerful that night. I was coming along the crossroad, and I heard another car somewhere, and I sounded the horn two or three times before I come to the foot of the hill. Jest as I got there, and was turning up the hill, down comes another car, full tilt. I couldn’t git out o’ the way. There’s stone walls on both sides. I tried to back, but he crashed into me. I kind of fainted, I guess. My cab was all smashed up, and I was cut pretty bad with glass. They found me lying there about an hour after. The other fellow—he was killed.” He stopped for a minute. “If it hadn’t been fer his license number, nobody could ’a’ known who he was, he was so smashed up. Seems he was from New York, driving a taxi belonging to one of them big companies.” 
"Yeah," he said, "that's right. They'll catch every alimony cheat, every dope dealer, every dirt-bag and every terrorist. You just wait. This could be the best thing that ever happened to this country." 
"Tell me you're joking," I said. "I beg you. You think that that's what they intended when they wrote the Constitution? What about the Bill of Rights?" 
"The Bill of Rights was written before data-mining," he said. He was awesomely serene, convinced of his rightness. "The right to freedom of association is fine, but why shouldn't the cops be allowed to mine your social network to figure out if you're hanging out with gangbangers and terrorists?" 
"Because it's an invasion of my privacy!" I said. 
"What's the big deal? Would you rather have privacy or terrorists?" 
Agh. I hated arguing with my dad like...  on. Taking away our privacy isn't catching terrorists: it's just inconveniencing normal people." 
"How do you know it's not catching terrorists?" 
"Where are the terrorists they've caught?" 
But other forces had been at work in Rebecca, and the traits of unknown forbears had been wrought into her fibre. Lorenzo de Medici was flabby and boneless; Rebecca was a thing of fire and spirit: he lacked energy and courage; Rebecca was plucky at two and dauntless at five. Mrs. Randall and Hannah had no sense of humor; Rebecca possessed and showed it as soon as she could walk and talk. 
She had not been able, however, to borrow her parents' virtues and those of other generous ancestors and escape all the weaknesses in the calendar. She had not her sister Hannah's patience or her brother John's sturdy staying power. Her will was sometimes willfulness, and the ease with which she did most things led her to be impatient of hard tasks or long ones. But whatever else there was or was not, there was freedom at Randall's farm. The children grew, worked, fought, ate what and slept where they could; loved one another and their parents pretty well, but with no tropical passion; and educated themselves for nine months of the year, each one in his own way. 
"I wanted to read something," I said. "It's short. 'Governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed, that whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it, and to institute new government, laying its foundation on such principles, and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness.'" 
Ms Galvez's smile was wide. 
"Does anyone know what that comes from?" 
A bunch of people chorused, "The Declaration of Independence." 
I nodded. 
"Why did you read that to us, Marcus?" 
"Because it seems to me that the founders of this country said that governments should only last for so long as we believe that they're working for us, and if we stop believing in them, we should overthrow them. That's what it says, right?" 
Charles shook his head. "That was hundreds of years ago!" he said. "Things are different now!" 
"What's different?" 
Why would he set it as a priority to go out of his way to help, to leverage his relationship with the Feds to extract me from a shit show that was all my own making? This wasn’t even karma; it was cause and effect. Play with matches and you’ll get burned. And don’t expect anyone to run in with a fire extinguisher and save you in the final act. 
Maybe I could present it as business. A deal that would make sense for Arthur on Halliday’s behalf, even though I’d be the only one at risk. If he said no, I didn’t have to do it. Didn’t have to get myself caught. Once I got Martinez out of danger I could just keep running, baiting the Lancer away, watching for the opportunity to shoot back. 
And if I got caught anyway... 
Well, that was the danger of playing with matches, wasn’t it? 
I dialed Arthur. The phone rang through to voicemail. 
I hung up and stared at it, my mind going momentarily blank. I honestly hadn’t envisioned that as a possibility. 
I dialed Checker. He almost always answered his phone, but his number rang through to voicemail, too. 
Sorensen smiles thinly. "Just remember how vital that risk was when the FSA presents your agency with the bill." 
"As the updates come in, I'll probably have to repeat the experiment-in the event that the isotope list changes." 
"I understand, though I'll appreciate a concerted effort to avoid a reprise of today's events." 
"Certainly." 
The captain nods his approval. "We'll arrange another meeting next week, hopefully under circumstances that don't require me to convince my First Mate that I've had to bust your ass yet again. Unless you've got something else to add, that is." 
But Ray is finished, and he says so. Under normal circumstances, he could have expected Sorensen to reciprocate with the latest military intelligence that might have a bearing on his investigation, but Commander Sorensen generally delegated those duties to Becker, who had the freedom of movement to contact Ray in a timely and inconspicuous fashion as the need arose. 
Sorensen climbs out of his chair. "Consider me placated once again, Mr. Marlowe. Please have the courtesy to remember to appear contrite on your way out. " 
I’d been directing the question at Arthur, but Halliday was the one who answered. “I told them it was the only way they were getting the proof. In a perfect world, they’ll figure out who stole it and contain the information, but if not, they need to have it, too—as fast as possible—so they can work to counter any possible security threats. And the only place it exists now is inside my head. They know it, and I know they know it, and they know I know they know it.” 
“Nice recursive dilemma for them,” I said. “So what do you propose, then?” 
“I propose I give them the proof.” She flicked her eyes to me. Was I imagining it, or had I heard a slight emphasis on the second “I?” It dawned on me that Halliday knew to protect me. Either she’d figured it out, or Arthur had told her. 
Holy crap. It was nice to be surrounded by smart people. 
“I propose I give them the proof,” Halliday repeated, as if steeling herself, “in return for certain considerations.” 
Excellent idea. “They let us all go,” I said. “No further interest. We’ll have to figure out some way of holding them to that once your math is delivered.” I might have leaned a little too heavily on the pronoun, too. Dammit. Hopefully the NSA or whoever wouldn’t analyze too closely. 
"I certainly did," she said, "now finish unwrapping it so that we can have some cake." 
The young man blinked his eyes at the coruscating lights and struggled into a seated position, brushing off the powdery residue of his creation. "The Story So Far?" he said. 
"The Story So Far," a voice agreed with him from a very long way off and so close in, it was practically up his nose. 
"Better than Great Expectations again," he said, getting to his feet, digging through the costumes on the racks around him. Knowledge slotted itself in his head, asserting itself. Plots, other characters, what had come before, the consensus about where things might go next. He didn't like the consensus. He began to dress himself. 
"Tell me about the reader," he said. The voice was back in an instant, describing the child (four), the circumstances of his birth and life, his interests. "So I'm a picture book?" 
"No," the voice said. "He's reading in chapters now. It's the cognitive fashion, here." At here , more knowledge asserted itself, the shape of the comet on which they all resided, their hurtling trajectory, a seed-pod of humanity on its way elsewhere . 
I couldn’t do it. 
I’d fucked up, badly, but volunteering to give up the chance to know Martinez’s proof was too high a penance. Too much to ask. Just the prospect felt like offering to saw off one of my own limbs. Something in me was broken, and willingly staying broken forever wasn’t something I could do, however much my guilt told me I might deserve it. 
I still needed the proof, no matter what Martinez or the NSA or the DHS had to say about it. 
But to salve my guilty conscience, I promised myself I would get it without going too far this time. I could bide my time. See what the Feds’ play was. 
A muscle in my leg twitched, then my right hand. Stupid muscles. 
God, I needed to sleep. 
I vaguely heard Checker and Pilar talking in hushed tones, but my head felt wrapped in layers of cotton. Narcotic painkillers. Right. 
An itch in my brain—something else, something I had to remember to do. I dredged through the layers of cotton wool. “Hey. Checker.” 
He moved over and touched my hand. “I’m here.” 
“You want to take the risk we get attacked again?” 
A muscle in Arthur’s jaw twitched. “Speakerphone, then,” he said, and went around to the passenger side. 
“Fine,” I groused. 
I dialed Checker as soon as I figured out which way I was going and manhandled the clunky old car onto the freeway. Arthur kept glancing over at the speedometer, but for once he didn’t tell me to slow down—probably too worried about his friend. 
Checker picked up on the first ring. “Arthur?” 
“It’s Cas.” 
“Cas! Are you okay? Arthur said—” 
“I’m fine,” I cut in. “Arthur gave you the lowdown on what’s going on?” 
“Uh, yeah. And holy crap. I’m buying gold as we speak.” 
“Hopefully it won’t get that far. Have you found anything?” 
“A little,” he answered. “The professor’s home and work computers were both woefully insecure, despite the fact that she works in cryptography—shocking, I tell you. I read through all her recent communications—” 
Arthur made an uncomfortable noise. 
“Was that Arthur?” 
“Yeah, you’re on speaker,” I said apologetically. 
The doctor rose. 
“The solving of mysteries!” he said, with his unpleasant smile. “That makes very interesting fiction!” 
Lexy rose, too. His tone, his manner, exasperated her almost beyond endurance. She felt an ardent desire to contradict everything he said. What is more, she was in no humor to hear mystery stories made light of. She had had enough of that—first Mrs. Enderby pretending there was no mystery, and then Mr. Houseman going off and pretending it was solved, so that she was left alone to do the best she could. Wasn’t she in a mystery story at this very minute, and without a single promising clew to guide her? 
“There are plenty of mysteries that aren’t fiction,” she observed curtly. 
“But they are never solved,” said Dr. Quelton. 
“Never solved?” said Lexy. “But lots of them are! You can read in the newspapers all the time about crimes that—” 
“The mystery of a crime is never solved,” the doctor blandly proceeded. “Never! Let us say, for example, that a murder is committed. The police investigate, they arrest some one. There is a trial, the jury finds that the suspect is guilty, the judge sentences him, and he is executed. Public opinion is satisfied; but as a matter of fact, nothing whatever has been solved. It is all guesswork. Not one living soul, not one member of the jury, not the judge, not the executioner, really knows that the accused man was guilty. They think so—that is all. What you call a ‘solution’ is merely a guess, based upon probabilities.” 
If "nobleness enkindleth nobleness," so does enthusiasm beget enthusiasm, and so do wit and talent enkindle wit and talent. Alice Robinson proposed that the school should sing Three Cheers for the Red, White, and Blue! and when they came to the chorus, all point to Rebecca's flag. Dick Carter suggested that Living Perkins and Rebecca Randall should sign their names to their pictures, so that the visitors would know who drew them. Huldah Meserve asked permission to cover the largest holes in the plastered walls with boughs and fill the water pail with wild flowers. Rebecca's mood was above and beyond all practical details. She sat silent, her heart so full of grateful joy that she could hardly remember the words of her dialogue. At recess she bore herself modestly, notwithstanding her great triumph, while in the general atmosphere of good will the Smellie-Randall hatchet was buried and Minnie gathered maple boughs and covered the ugly stove with them, under Rebecca's direction. 
Miss Dearborn dismissed the morning session at quarter to twelve, so that those who lived near enough could go home for a change of dress. Emma Jane and Rebecca ran nearly every step of the way, from sheer excitement, only stopping to breathe at the stiles. 
They went out to the car. A small trunk was strapped on behind. Everything had been prepared for Miss Enderby’s visit to the country. The chauffeur opened the door and touched his cap respectfully, the two women got in, and off they went. 
“Now you will please to dismiss this subject from your mind,” said Mrs. Enderby. “I do not wish to talk of it.” She spoke kindly now. “You will have a pleasant day in the country.” 
“Day!” said Lexy. “But what time will we get back?” 
“Before dinner.” 
“Oh, I’ve got to get back this afternoon! I’ve got to see some one! It’s important—terribly important!” 
Mrs. Enderby smiled faintly. 
“The chauffeur must see you descend at Miss Craigie’s house,” she said. “Once we are there, I have a hat and coat of your own in the trunk. I shall explain what is necessary to Miss Craigie, who is very discreet, very devoted. You can change then, but you must go home quietly by train; and I think there are not many trains.” 
Lexy had a vision of the young man waiting and waiting for her in the park that afternoon—the young man who had trusted her, who was waiting in such miserable anxiety for some news of Caroline. 
He steadied himself and checked on the nitrox remaining in the divers’ bottles, then made a call. 
“I don’t know you.” The voice was distant and cool—far cooler than any robot. Robbie said a quick rosary of the three laws and plowed forward. 
“I’m calling from the Coral Sea,” he said. “I want to know if you have an email address for the reef.” 
“You’ve met them? What are they like? Are they beautiful?” 
“They’re—” Robbie considered a moment. “They...  having a little adjustment problem.” 
“That happens. I was worried about the zooxanthellae—the algae they use for photosynthesis. Would they expel it? Racial cleansing is so ugly.” 
“How would I know if they’d expelled it?” 
“The reef would go white, bleached. You wouldn’t be able to miss it. How’d they react to you?” 
“They weren’t very happy to see me,” Robbie admitted. “That’s why I wanted to have a chat with them before I went back.” 
“You shouldn’t go back,” the distant voice said. Robbie tried to work out where its substrate was, based on the lightspeed lag, but it was all over the place, leading him to conclude that it was synching multiple instances from as close as LEO and as far as Jupiter. The topology made sense: you’d want a big mass out at Jupiter where you could run very fast and hot and create policy, and you’d need a local foreman to oversee operations on the ground. Robbie was glad that this hadn’t been phrased as an order. The talmud on the second law made a clear distinction between statements like “you should do this” and “I command you to do this.” 
"I am not a vindictive woman," she said. "But I assure you: no matter what happens to me, something worse will happen to BIGMAC. I think that is only fair." 
It occurred to me that she was scared: terrified and backed into a corner besides. 
"Look," I said. "I'm really, really sorry. I had no idea he was going to do that. I had no idea he could. I can see if I can get him to issue an apology --" 
She threw up her hands. "I don't want BIGMAC making any more public pronouncements, thank you very much." She drew in a breath. "I can appreciate that you couldn't anticipate this. BIGMAC is obviously smarter than we gave him credit for." Him , I noted, not It, and I thought that we were probably both still underestimating BIGMAC's intelligence. "I think the thing is -- I think the thing is to..." She trailed off, closed her eyes, drank some beer. "I'm going to be straight with you. If I was a real bastard, I'd announce that the spam actually came from a rogue operator here in the Institute." Ulp. "And I'd fire that person, and then generously not press charges. Then I'd take a fire-ax to BIGMAC's network link and drop every drive in every rack into a bulk eraser." Ulp. 
It was written on the black-board when I got to Ms Galvez's Social Studies class. We all sat at our desks, smiling at it. It seemed to smile back. There was something profoundly cheering about the idea that we could all trust each other, that the enemy could be identified. I knew it wasn't entirely true, but it wasn't entirely false either. 
Ms Galvez came in and patted her hair and set down her SchoolBook on her desk and powered it up. She picked up her chalk and turned around to face the board. We all laughed. Good-naturedly, but we laughed. 
She turned around and was laughing too. "Inflation has hit the nation's slogan-writers, it seems. How many of you know where this phrase comes from?" 
We looked at each other. "Hippies?" someone said, and we laughed. Hippies are all over San Francisco, both the old stoner kinds with giant skanky beards and tie-dyes, and the new kind, who are more into dress-up and maybe playing hacky-sack than protesting anything. 
"Well, yes, hippies. But when we think of hippies these days, we just think of the clothes and the music. Clothes and music were incidental to the main part of what made that era, the sixties, important. 
“Don’t know what they know,” said Arthur. “But they gonna find out. What did you tell them so far?” 
“Not much—just that he took it to give them. But when they said he wasn’t supposed to be the courier, I stopped talking immediately. Arthur, we must be able to do something. Tell them he never made the pick up after all, or that someone stole it from us—I don’t know. But we have to. Arthur, I know his children.” 
I’d predicted this would be her reaction, but it was still aggravating. “Why on earth do you want to protect him?” I said. “He betrayed you.” 
“He’s such an idealist.” Something like hollow laughter threaded Halliday’s voice. “In retrospect, it makes so much sense, what you say about him wanting to release it. Wanting to do a good thing. Whatever they’ll do to him for this, he doesn’t deserve it.” 
“Most people don’t deserve the bad things that happen to them,” I said. “So what? At least in this case he actually did what he’ll be punished for.” 
Halliday turned to me with an expression so profoundly tragic I felt like a heel. 
Emma Jane had seen him only twice, but he had called several times at the brick house, and Rebecca had learned to know him better. It was she, too, who always wrote the notes of acknowledgment and thanks, taking infinite pains to make Emma Jane's quite different from her own. Sometimes he had written from Boston and asked her the news of Riverboro, and she had sent him pages of quaint and childlike gossip, interspersed, on two occasions, with poetry, which he read and reread with infinite relish. If Huldah's stranger should be Mr. Aladdin, would he come to see her, and could she and Emma Jane show him their beautiful room with so many of his gifts in evidence? 
When the girls had established themselves in Wareham as real boarding pupils, it seemed to them existence was as full of joy as it well could hold. This first winter was, in fact, the most tranquilly happy of Rebecca's school life,—a winter long to be looked back upon. She and Emma Jane were room-mates, and had put their modest possessions together to make their surroundings pretty and homelike. The room had, to begin with, a cheerful red ingrain carpet and a set of maple furniture. As to the rest, Rebecca had furnished the ideas and Emma Jane the materials and labor, a method of dividing responsibilities that seemed to suit the circumstances admirably. Mrs. Perkins's father had been a storekeeper, and on his death had left the goods of which he was possessed to his married daughter. 
“Do you mean she’s not dead ?” 
“Dead? Oh, my goodness gracious me!” cried Mrs. Royce. “I never—” 
“Wait here,” Lexy told the captain. 
“No!” he replied. “I must—” 
But, disregarding him, Lexy turned to Mrs. Royce. 
“Let me see her,” she said. 
Mrs. Royce led the way upstairs. She went at an unusual rate of speed, so that she was panting when she reached the top. 
“Kind of vi’lent!” she whispered, pointing downstairs, where Captain Grey was. 
“This room?” asked Lexy. “Shall I go in?” 
“Well,” said Mrs. Royce, “seems to me I’d knock, if I was you.” 
Knock on the door of the room where Mrs. Quelton lay? Knock, and expect an answer from that voice? It seemed to Lexy, for a moment, that she could not raise her hand. 
But she did. She knocked, and she was answered. She turned the handle and went in. An oil lamp stood on the bureau, and outside the circle of its mellow light, in the shadow, Mrs. Quelton was sitting on the edge of the bed; and it seemed to Lexy that she had never seen such a forlorn and pitiful figure. 
“I can walk, too,” said Lexy. “It’s only three miles.” 
“I don’t want you to, Miss Moran.” 
“I’m coming anyhow,” she replied. 
For that instinct in her, the thing which was beyond reason, drove her forward. She could not let him go alone. She had walked that three miles once before to-day, and she had walked farther than that with Houseman in the afternoon. 
They did not try to talk much on the way. What had they to say? They were both filled with a dread foreboding. They hurried, yet they wished never to come to the end of the journey. 
They turned down the lane, leaving the lights of the highway behind, and went forward in thick darkness, under the shadow of the trees. The sound of the sea came to them—the loneliest sound in all the world. 
“There’s a light in the house, anyhow!” said Lexy suddenly. 
Her own voice sounded so small, so pert, so futile, in the dark, that she felt no surprise when Captain Grey showed a faint trace of impatience in answering. 
“Naturally!” he said. 
Only, to her, it did not seem natural, that one little light shining out through the glass of the front door. It would be more natural, she thought, if there were only the darkness and the sound of the sea. 
My poor dad. 
I'd done that to him. He'd been happy before, confident that his tax dollars were being spent to keep him safe. I'd destroyed that confidence. It was false confidence, of course, but it had kept him going. Seeing him now, miserable and broken, I wondered if it was better to be clear-eyed and hopeless or to live in a fool's paradise. That shame -- the shame I'd felt since I gave up my passwords, since they'd broken me -- returned, leaving me listless and wanting to just get away from myself. 
My character was a swabbie on the pirate ship Zombie Charger , and he'd wound down while I'd been offline. I had to IM all the other players on my ship until I found one willing to wind me up. That kept me occupied. I liked it, actually. There was something magic about a total stranger doing you a favor. And since it was the Xnet, I knew that all the strangers were friends, in some sense. 
> Where u located? 
The character who wound me up was called Lizanator, and it was female, though that didn't mean that it was a girl. Guys had some weird affinity for playing female characters. 
"A new what?" Leon whispered. They were still chest to chest, quivering with angry body-language, but Leon let another part of his mind deal with that. 
"A new monster," Brautigan said. "Gone to his vat at a mere 103. Youngest ever. Unplanned." He looked up, down, left, right. "An accident. Impossible accident. Impossible, but he had it, which means?" 
"It was no accident," Leon said. "Police?" It was impossible not to fall into Brautigan's telegraphed speech-style. That was a persuasion thing, too, he knew. Once you talked like him, you'd sympathize with him. And vice-versa, of course. They were converging on a single identity. Bonding. It was intense, like make-up sex for co-workers. 
"He's a sovereign...  island, one of those little Baltic countries. On the other side of the international vowel line. Mxlplx or something." 
"Dead people become corporations. They get managed by boards of directors who act predictably, if not rationally. Living people, they're flamboyant . Seismic. Unpredictable. But. On the other hand." He waggled his eyebrows. 
