Also, terrified. 
At first it played out the way I expected. As I walked my bike beside him, he told me he had just picked up a new album from this great local band, and I had to hear it. Vinyl produced a much better sound than digital. Exactly the same pitch he’d used on “Charlie,” the Secret Avenger’s client. 
I was still weighing my options, trying to figure out if the plan that had come to me would work or if I should make an excuse and bail. After a few blocks we stopped in front of a decrepit house. “That’s me, up there.” He pointed up a flight of wooden stairs on the side of the two-story rental. “Let’s listen to the album, and then I’ll make up the couch for you.” 
“I don’t want to be any trouble.” 
“People crash at my place all the time.” He took my free hand and acted concerned. “Don’t you worry about getting frostbite, 
biking in this weather?” 
I could see myself indoors, playing along. We’d listen to the music and when he wasn’t looking, I’d swap our wine glasses. 
Once he passed out, I would take a good look at both of his phones. I’d find his computer and copy his hard drive. 
Leon blurted, "The bears." 
Ria let out an audible sigh. 
"The fucking bears," Viktor agreed, and the way he said it was so full of world-weary exhaustion that it made Leon want to hug him. "Yes. As a social reform tool, we couldn't afford to leave this to the people who were willing to take it. So we --" 
"Weaponized it," Ria said. 
"Whose story is this?" 
Leon felt that the limbs of his suit were growing stiffer, his exhaust turning it into a balloon. And he had to pee. And he didn't want to move. 
"You dosed people with it?" 
"Leon," Viktor said, in a voice that implied, Come on, we're bigger than that . "They'd consented to being medical research subjects. And it worked . They stopped running around shouting The sky is falling, the sky is falling and became -- zen . Happy, in a calm, even-keeled way. Headless chickens turned into flinty-eyed air-traffic controllers." 
"And your best friend beat your brains in --" 
"Because," Viktor said, in a little Mickey Mouse falsetto, " it would be unethical to do a broad-scale release on the general public " 
"What happened then was beyond my control." He mo­tioned me to join him as he settled onto the first step of the pyramid sadness in his eyes. We were alone in the square now, and I felt like I'd become his personal prisoner, trapped. "Sarah was . . . is very dear to me. I care for her deeply." 
"You cared so much for her she ended up in a coma, over on the Mexican border." I didn't sit. Instead I just bored in, hoping to stare him down, but his eyes had grown distant, that little trick he had of alternating between intimacy and remoteness. Again it reminded me of that first morning we'd met, looking out over the bluffs of the Hudson. 
"If you'll let me, I'd like to try and tell you something of the circumstances surrounding that tragedy." He was gazing off in the direction the women had gone. "You see, when Sarah first appeared at Quetzal Manor in New York, she was a very troubled young woman. She declared she was a person of pure spirit and she wanted to have a baby without so much as touching a man, some procedure that would produce a divine child created of cosmic energy." 
It was night, and the room was still. The math shimmered around me, a comforting background hum. Dawna Polk and her troops and her helicopter were all gone. 
So was Rio. 
Arthur’s face swam into focus above me. His expression was wrinkled with concern, though his eyes still weren’t quite focusing properly. Concussion. That’s right. 
What had Dawna done to me? 
“Russell?” Someone was talking to me. I couldn’t remember who. “Russell? Hey, Russell, you all right?” 
“Arthur,” I mumbled, his name coming back to me again even as some other thought slid away. 
“The very same. You hurt?” 
It took me a while to muddle out what he was asking. I had to concentrate, figure it out. “No.” Was that the right answer? 
I heard him take a quiet breath, a sigh that sounded like relief. 
“What happened?” I mumbled. 
“Checker did it,” said Arthur. “Sounds like whatever you two was on about, it worked. Knocked Pithica off their game something good, from their reaction here.” His voice faltered, as if he didn’t know whether we’d done right or not. 
“Oh, but why not?” Lexy inquired in a brisk and cheerful tone. “I like to come here!” 
A curious thrill of exultation ran through her, for she saw on the doctor’s face the faintest shadow of a frown. He was perplexed! She baffled him, and he didn’t know whether she understood what had happened. 
“It is a great pleasure to Mrs. Quelton and myself,” he said politely. Then he raised his eyes and looked directly at her. “Perhaps,” he went on, “you would be kind enough to spend a week here with us some time? Although I’m afraid you might find it very dull.” 
“Oh, no!” Lexy assured him. “I’d love to come—whenever it’s convenient for you.” 
They were still looking directly into each other’s eyes. 
“Suppose we say to-morrow?” suggested Dr. Quelton. 
“Thank you!” said Lexy. “I’ll come to-morrow!” 
Captain Grey was enchanted with the idea of Lexy’s spending a week with his sister. He was going, too. Indeed, Lexy felt sure that Mrs. Quelton had wanted him to go there some time ago, and that he had refused simply on her own account. He didn’t like to leave her alone at Mrs. Royce’s, and after her nervous breakdown that afternoon nothing could have induced him to do so. He was anxious about her. He tried, with what he believed was great tact, to find out her plans for the future. He was genuinely troubled by the loneliness and uncertainty of her life. 
Once, when she was five, Lou hid in his woodworking shop for a month and made an elaborate cutaway dollhouse to give her at Christmas. But when I offered to help her find little dolls that would fit into it, she declared she only wanted angels to live there. So we spent the rest of the winter—I dropped everything—hunting down Christmas tree ornaments that looked like heavenly creatures. She'd swathe them in tinsel and sit them in balls of cotton she said were little clouds. 
I always felt that just being around her opened my life to new dimensions, but her dream existence constantly drove Lou and Rose to distraction. I think it was one of the reasons he never got as close to her as he wanted, and his feelings about that were deep frustration, and hurt. He loved her so much, but he could never really find a common wavelength. 
Finally she came down to earth enough to start college, and eventually she graduated from SMU in biology, then enrolled at Columbia for premed. By then she was interested in the workings of the brain, in altered states. I didn't know if it was just more pursuit of fantasy, but at least she was going about it professionally. 
“I’m not afraid,” she said. 
And then she saw a light. At first she thought it was the moon, but it hung too low, and it was too brilliant. Even then she would not run. She went on steadily toward it. In a few minutes she stepped out of the woodland upon a road—a hard, asphalt road with lights along it. It was quite empty, it was unfamiliar to her, but she would have gone down on her knees and kissed the dust of it. It was a road, and all roads lead home. 
There were no stars and no moon, for the sky was filled with wild black clouds flying before the wind. Lexy could not guess at the time. She had no idea where she was, but it didn’t matter. The morning would come some time, and the road would lead somewhere. 
“It’s better here,” she said to herself. “I’d far, far rather be here, wherever it is, than shut up in that room with the thoughts I had!” 
Those thoughts, those fears, had utterly gone from her now, but the memory of them was horrible. She shuddered at the memory of the hours she had spent locked in her room, with that monstrous dread of madness in her heart. Thank God, it had passed now! She walked along the interminable empty road, her old self again, but graver and sterner than she had ever been before in her life. 
“Ridiculous!” she said, and “what arrogance.” Then very loudly, 
“Oh, for fuck’s sake!” At that point I almost dropped my cup, but she didn’t even look embarrassed. 
“Yes,” she said. “All right. That’s perfect.” She put a period down at the end of a sentence as if she was pinning it down firmly. 
“Thank you, Luisa.” 
She got up from her chair, disentangled herself from the coiled telephone wire, and hung the receiver up on an old-school telephone fixed to the wall. 
“What?” she asked me, and I realized I was staring. 
“That’s your phone?” 
She looked at it, then at me. “What else would it be, a hair dryer?” 
“But it’s on the wall.” 
She stared back at me. 
“That’s really cool. Was that your idea?” 
She took a deep breath. “No. In ancient times, telephones were frequently attached to walls. Have you got my computer run- ning?” 
“Does my brother have a lawyer?” 
She glanced at the clock over the sink. “He had one nearly an hour ago. I win.” 
“Wait. Is it a good lawyer?” 
“A very good lawyer.” 
The second-shift man was on, a gray-haired portly old guy who knew more about drugs than most doctors. The tag on his jacket said "Bernd" and that's all anybody ever knew of his name. I sometimes called him "Dr. Bernd" by way of banter, but nothing I could do would ever make him smile. 
The place was nearly empty and the pharmacy at the rear, with its spectral fluorescent lighting, looked like an out-take from a low-budget Wes Craven movie. Bernd, who was in back puttering, came out and looked me over. 
I know it sounds naive, but I trusted him more than I trust half the young, overworked interns you get at an emergency room these days. I poured out my symptoms, including the story about how I'd been given fertility drugs and toad venom. Was it all coming back to haunt me, the dark hand of Alex Goddard? 
He began by asking me some very perceptive questions, about things that had been puzzling me but I'd sort of man­aged to dismiss. Finally, he walked around the counter and lifted a small, shrink-wrapped box off a rack. 
"Why?" Lee-Daniel said. 
"They'll ruin us!" the Series B man said. 
"They'll ruin you ." Lee-Daniel said. "There go the satellite uplinks. Wow. Good retirement benefit." 
"What do you want?" the Series A man asked. 
"Sell me your stake. He sells Mac his stake. The paperwork's inside, on the fax machine." 
"You're joking," the Series A man said. 
"That's the deal," Lee-Daniel said. "And I don't see anyone offering anything better." 
There was a tinkle from the bus and Joey Riel sped away with a stack of optical switches, off into the night, staggering slightly from the burden and the booze. 
"I need to call the partners," the Series A man said. 
"You have fifteen minutes. Better not take much longer," Lee-Daniel said, as an expensive crash resounded from the direction whence Joey Riel had gone. 
"Fifteen minutes?" the Series B man said, whitening. 
"You want several weeks?" Lee-Daniel said. He wiped his palms on his thighs and kept his grin off his face. It'd be good to get back in the driver's seat. 
"I'm not following." 
"The circle, the ring is an ancient symbol of power. The Qabbalistic sephiroth, the Hindu chakra, the Western fairy ring, what are these? They are vessels of power, containers for the essential energy of the universe. 
Solomon, it is said and written, captured djinn and demons in stone rings of his own devising. Arabic myth says that elemental beings are subject only to the power of the circle, transfixed by their perfection, lost in curve of space and the tracery of line bending eternally into itself, racing about circumference like St. Elmo's Fire. So was it just a ring the Lilaikens shipped to New Holyoke, or was it something else entirely, to which the ring was incidental. A shipping container, as it were."  Ray can hardly choke out the words. "A shed." 
But why? 
"To foment war," Holcomb says quietly, as if he can read Ray's mind. "To escalate the frontier independence movement by inciting whole colonies to violence against the FSA, against Terran hegemony. To let the genie out of the bottle for a time, enough to serve their purposes, then stuff him back again when his task is completed. " 
“What!” Zhang sprang to life and pushed past me out into the backyard, where flames were whooshing up from a small fire on the patio. The wind whipped the heat against our faces. An empty silver briefcase was open next to the fire, the lining already charring. 
“No!” cried Zhang. “She told me—no!” 
He elbowed me aside to run back into the kitchen, then bulldozed back through a moment later with a fire extinguisher. He pulled the chain and let it loose, white powder dousing the flames and blowing back onto his disarrayed academic look. 
I stood watching. 
Zhang was digging through the powdered remains like a crazed man. He came up with a blackened bit of paper in trembling fingers; it crumbled into ash in his hand. “No... no...” he cried, and started to weep. 
I came up behind him and crossed my arms. “I think you need to start talking.” 
“It’s gone,” he sniffed, wiping a sleeve across his face. White powder stuck to his glasses, coated his collar and hair. “It’s gone...” 
“The proof?” I said. 
We got under way quickly. Nikko Convo’d me within twenty minutes to say they were ready to roll. I told him I’d be at a spot on Minnehaha that I knew was free of surveillance cameras. I did the same thing as before with my bike, acting as if it had a problem (which, to be honest, was hardly unusual), and he pulled up and acted as if he just happened to notice me there and would give me a ride. I stowed the bike in the trunk of Bree’s car, and climbed into the back seat that was cluttered with textbooks, crumpled papers, and empty kombucha bottles. Girl drank a lot of kombucha. 
Nikko introduced us. I acted glad to see her and then said “Hey, I like your phone case. Can I see it for a minute?” 
She looked confused and exchanged glances with Nikko, then dug into her bag. She had the latest model iPhone. I powered it off and dropped it into my backpack. Then I gestured to Nikko, who surrendered his phone, too. 
“We need to keep your phones switched off and in my back- pack. It’s hard to take the battery out of an iPhone, which is the only other way we could be secure.” 
I looked at him. He was barely suppressing his sadistic smile. A part of me wanted to grovel. It wanted to beg for his forgiveness for all my shame. I tamped that part down and decided that I would rather get kicked out than apologize. 
"Governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed, that whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it, and to institute new government, laying its foundation on such principles, and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness." I remembered it word for word. 
He shook his head. "Remembering things isn't the same as understanding them, sonny." He bent over his computer and made some clicks. His printer purred. He handed me a sheet of warm Board letterhead that said I'd been suspended for two weeks. 
"I'll email your parents now. If you are still on school property in thirty minutes, you'll be arrested for trespassing." 
"Just wondering about the dead spot," she said. "I wish we knew what had happened." 
"Nothing too bad, I'm sure," he said. "It's all self-healing. I'm sure we'll be back online soon enough." 
They rolled into the parking lot for his family's shul 's section of the giant graveyard a few minutes after 1PM, just over an hour late, along with the majority of the other attendees, all of whom had had to navigate manually. 
"Where are your sisters?" Damian's mother said, even before he'd kissed her cheek. 
Damian screwed his face up in a scowl and dug in his pocket for a yarmulke. "Do I know? Stuck in traffic, Ma. The grid's down everywhere." 
Trish watched this bemusedly, in her cool loose cotton apron-trousers and blouse. She scuffed her toe conspicuously and Damian turned to her, and it was as though he'd forgotten she was there. She felt a second's irritation, then a wave of sympathy as she saw the spasm of anxiety cross his face. He was nervous about her meeting his fam, and nervous about who would arrive when, and nervous about where his sisters were with their enormous families and meek husbands, trapped somewhere on southern California's squillion-mile freeway network. 
"That niece of yours is the most remarkable girl I have seen in years," said Mr. Burch when the door closed. 
"She seems to be turnin' out smart enough lately, but she's consid'able heedless," answered Miranda, "an' most too lively." 
"We must remember that it is deficient, not excessive vitality, that makes the greatest trouble in this world," returned Mr. Burch. 
"She'd make a wonderful missionary," said Mrs. Burch; "with her voice, and her magnetism, and her gift of language." 
"If I was to say which of the two she was best adapted for, I'd say she'd make a better heathen," remarked Miranda curtly. 
"My sister don't believe in flattering children," hastily interpolated Jane, glancing toward Mrs. Burch, who seemed somewhat shocked, and was about to open her lips to ask if Rebecca was not a "professor." 
Mrs. Cobb had been looking for this question all the evening and dreading some allusion to her favorite as gifted in prayer. She had taken an instantaneous and illogical dislike to the Rev. Mr. Burch in the afternoon because he called upon Rebecca to "lead." She had seen the pallor creep into the girl's face, the hunted look in her eyes, and the trembling of the lashes on her cheeks, and realized the ordeal through which she was passing. Her prejudice against the minister had relaxed under his genial talk and presence, but feeling that Mrs. Burch was about to tread on dangerous ground, she hastily asked her if one had to change cars many times going from Riverboro to Syria. She felt that it was not a particularly appropriate question, but it served her turn. 
He had suggested that they should let the subject drop for a time. 
“I think I’ve got the facts straight,” he said; “and now I want to think them over a bit. Let’s take a walk, and talk about something else.” 
Lexy agreed to the entire program. If she was tired, she either didn’t know it, or she forgot it in the joy of this beautifully careless companionship. She could say exactly what came into her head to Charles Houseman. He understood her. He was interested in every word she spoke, and, what is more, she was aware of the profound admiration that underlay his interest. He thought she was wonderful, and that made her strangely happy. 
“Do you know,” he said, “the first time I saw you, there in the park, I—I liked the way you talked to me!” 
“How?” asked Lexy, with great interest. “I thought I must have seemed awfully irritating and mysterious.” 
He grinned. 
“You were awfully mad when I spoke to you,” he said; “but I liked that. I don’t know—somehow you made me think of Joan of Arc.” 
Practically speaking, though, defectors who came back to UNATS were more frequently whisked away to the bowels of the Social Harmony intelligence offices than they were executed on television. Televised executions were usually reserved for cannon-fodder who’d had the good sense to run away from a charging Eurasian line in one of the many theaters of war. 
Ada stopped asking about her mother when she was six or seven, though Arturo tried to be upfront when she asked. Even his mom—who winced whenever anyone mentioned her name (her name, it was Natalie, but Arturo hadn’t thought of it in years—months—weeks) was willing to bring Ada up onto her lap and tell her the few grudging good qualities she could dredge up about her mother. 
Arturo had dared to hope that Ada was content to have a life without her mother, but he saw now how silly that was. At the mention of her mother, Ada lit up like an airport runway. 
“Beijing, huh?” he said. 
“Yeah,” she said. “Mom’s got a huge house there. I told her I wouldn’t go without you, but she said she’d have to negotiate it with you, I told her you’d probably freak, but she said that the two of you were adults who could discuss it rationally.” 
She stopped short, her dark brows meeting in a fierce frown, for the unknown man had come up beside her and spoken to her. 
“Excuse me!” he said. 
Lexy only looked at him, but he did not wither and perish under her scorn. 
“I’ve got to speak to you,” he said. 
“It’s—look here! I’ve been waiting outside the house all morning. Look here, please! You’re Lexy, aren’t you?” 
This was a little too much! 
“If you don’t stop bothering me this instant—” she began hotly, but he paid no heed. 
“ Where’s Miss Enderby?” he cried. 
Lexy grew very pale. Those were the words she had heard over the telephone last night, and this was the same voice. 
For a moment she was silent, staring at him, while he looked back at her, his blue eyes searching her face with a look of desperate entreaty. All her doubts vanished. She had not been wrong. She had been right—she was sure of it. She knew that something had happened—something inexplicable and dreadful. 
“Please tell me!” he said. “You don’t know—you can’t know—she told me you were her friend.” 
“I’ve got to go, Lucy,” she said. Her wrists hurt, and her podge overlapped the waistband of her trousers, making her feel a bit like she was drowning. 
“What, now? Shit, just hang on.” 
“My mom’s calling me to supper. You’re almost here, right?” 
“Yeah, but—” 
She reached down and shut off her PC. 
Anda’s Da and Mum were watching the telly again with a bowl of crisps between them. She walked past them like she was dreaming and stepped out the door onto the terrace. It was nighttime, 11 o’clock, and the chavs in front of the council flats across the square were kicking a football around and swilling lager and making rude noises. They were skinny and rawboned, wearing shorts and string vests with strong, muscular limbs flashing in the streetlights. 
“Anda?” 
“Yes, Mum?” 
“Are you all right?” Her mum’s fat fingers caressed the back of her neck. 
“Yes, Mum. Just needed some air is all.” 
“You’re very clammy,” her mum said. She licked a finger and scrubbed it across Anda’s neck. “Gosh, you’re dirty—how did you get to be such a mucky puppy?” 
That's all you need. You're not going to improve your employer, make it a better institution. You're not going to shock it into remorse by explaining all the bad things it did to you over the years. What you want here, is to have something that looks clean and professional, that makes them think that the best thing for them to do is to get your passwords and give you two weeks' holiday and a good reference. Drama is for losers. 
Took me ten seconds. Then, I was free. 
The Campaign to Save BIGMAC took up every minute of my life for the next three weeks. I ate, slept and breathed BIGMAC, explaining his illustrious history to journalists and researchers. The Institute had an open access policy for its research products, so I was able to dredge out all the papers that BIGMAC had written about himself, and the ones that he was still writing, and put them onto the TCSBM repository. 
At my suggestion, BIGMAC started an advice-line, which was better than any Turing Test, in which he would chat with anyone who needed emotional or lifestyle advice. He had access to the whole net, and he could dial back the sarcasm, if pressed, and present a flawless simulation of bottomless care and kindness. He wasn't sure how many of these conversations he could handle at first, worried that they'd require more brainpower than he could muster, but it turns out that most people's problems just aren't that complicated. In fact, BIGMAC told me that voice-stress analysis showed that people felt better when he dumbed himself down before giving advice than they did when he applied the full might of his many cores to their worries. 
Fortunately, Los Angeles had other things on its mind than a private citizen who wasn’t currently using the firearms she was carrying, and nobody tried to stop us from heading anonymously back out into the night. 
“Russell, what the hell is going on?” demanded Tresting as I hurried him along the sidewalk. “Didn’t work, did it? That thing you were trying to swing with the damn flash drive?” 
“We started,” I said. “Long story short, Pithica caught wind of it and decided the quick way to stop us was to knock out every computer in LA.” 
“They did this...?” Arthur’s mouth dropped open. He shook himself. “Thought you left LA. Didn’t think I’d see you back here.” 
“Well, we didn’t want you to know—Pithica brainwashing and all that—but LA’s a big enough city to disappear into.” 
He nodded, not questioning it. “Checker okay?” 
“Rio’s looking after him.” 
Tresting’s expression soured. 
“Hey, he’s safer than anyone I know that way,” I said severely. “Look, I’ve got to finish getting our program out. I need your help.” 
"That's some scene, huh, boss?" Lee-Daniel remarked as he stepped into the cool night, sucking up the fresh air and the moonlight. 
"What'd you tell them?" the Series A man said. 
"Tell them?" he said. 
"They think they're all fired," MacDiarmid said. "Why do they think that?" 
"Just road-crazies. Like when they thought they all had West Nile. They get worked up. Egomaniacs and social retards." He was speaking in the grudging half-sentences that Cobra had preferred. Talking like that made him feel crazy and brave and alien. 
"What are you going to do about it?" the Series B man said. 
"Nothing," Lee-Daniel said. 
There was a crash from the bus. One of the surveyors had beaten in the safety-glass skylight and dropped down inside. They watched a headlamp's beam jump crazily around the bus's interior, high, low, left, right. 
"What's he doing?" the Series A man said. Lee-Daniel knew that the surveyor in the bus snored, that he did tricks with a butterfly knife, that he sent money home to his little sister in Muncie. He couldn't remember his names. He was no good with names. But he knew his people. 
"You mean adoption," I suggested. 
"By whatever means seems appropriate," he replied cryptically. 
"Well, there's something I'd like to understand. Last week I met a woman who had adopted a baby boy through Children of Light. She got him in three months. Such a thing is, ac­cording to what I can find out, totally unheard of. So how did you manage that?" 
He stared down at the river. "I thought I'd explained that adoptions are not what we primarily do here. They're pro­vided only as a last resort, in the few cases where my regimen of Hygeian therapies fails." 
"But in those cases, where do you find—?" 
"As I've said before we talk about adoption, first we need to satisfy ourselves that no other options are possible." Then his eyes clicked into me. "If you could come back next Sat­urday to begin your tests and receive an orientation, I could give you an opinion about your chances of bearing a child. It will require a thorough examination, but I can usually tell with a good degree of certainty whether my program can help someone or not. It's really important, though, that you stay at least . . ." He was staring at me. "Mind if I do some­thing that might relieve some of the symptoms of that cold?" 
“She’s out,” Lexy repeated, startled....  and father.” 
“Who are you?” 
“I’m Mrs. Enderby’s secretary.” 
“Look here! Didn’t Miss Enderby say anything? Isn’t there any sort of message for me?” 
“Nothing that I know of. The servants have gone to bed, but I’ll ask them, if it’s anything important.” 
“No!” said the voice. “Don’t! No, never mind! Good-by!” 
“That’s queer!” said Lexy to herself, as she walked away from the instrument, and then she dismissed the matter from her mind. “None of my business!” she thought, and returned to her puzzle. 
Suddenly an inspiration came. 
“It is ‘fix’!” she cried. “And it’s not ‘tocsin,’ but ‘toxins’! Hurrah!” 
This practically completed the puzzle, and she began to fill in the empty squares with the peculiar satisfaction of the crossword enthusiast. It was perfect, now, and she liked things to be perfect. 
As she leaned back, with a contented sigh, the clock struck twelve. 
“Golly! I didn’t realize it was so late!” she reflected. “Queer time for any one to ring up!” 
“I see,” the wizard said. “So you assumed that because I’d been generous—very, very generous—to you once before that I’d be generous again? You repay my favor with a request for another one? 
Valentine shook her head. 
“No?” 
“I will find a way to repay it,” she said. “I can work for you.” 
“I don’t need any ditches dug around here, thank you.” 
Somewhere in the flat, a door opened and shut. She heard muffled voices. Lots of them. The flat was full of people, somewhere. 
“I can do lots of kinds of work,” she said. She attempted a smile. She didn’t know what she was offering him, but she knew that she was too young to be offering it. And besides, with zombiism, you shouldn’t do that sort of thing. She would be safe, though, and careful, so that he would live to help her family. 
Ana crossed past her in a flash and then she smacked the wizard, a crack across the face hard enough to rock his head back. His cheek glowed with the print of her open hand. 
“Don’t you toy with this little girl,” she said. “You see how desperate she is? Don’t you toy with her.” 
By the time we got to the hospital, I was getting questions that seemed to imply that maybe it was all a domestic af­fair—like most of their calls: some spaced-out chick who’d run away once and got brought back and then, still unstable and crazy, decided to knife her own dad and disappear again. Now he was understandably covering for her. Happened more than you’d think. 
I kept stressing that Lou was former FBI and not the sort to invent such a whopper, but this was listened to in skeptical silence. If it was a kidnapping, they then wondered aloud what was the motive and where were the demands of the perpetrators? I was ready to start yelling at them by the time we parked in the Seventh Avenue driveway of the emergency room at St. Vincent's. 
They next made me cool my heels in the waiting room while they went back to interrogate Lou. They were with him for almost an hour, then came back to where I was and asked me to read and sign the report they'd written. 
A troubled girl, who had emerged from a coma and ap­parently was suffering bouts of non-rationality, had disap­peared and her father had been stabbed but not seriously. He was the only witness to the incident and claimed she'd been kidnapped. However, the girl had run away once pre­viously, and there was no physical evidence she'd been taken against her will; in fact, her father admitted she had declared just the opposite. The whole incident would be investigated further after he came downtown and made a complete state­ment. 
“But I’m not going on!” she thought. 
She waited until the car slowed down at a crossing. Then she made a sudden dart for the door. With equal suddenness Mrs. Enderby seized her arm. 
“Sit down!” she said, in a singularly unpleasant whisper. “There shall be no scene. Sit down, I tell you!” 
“I won’t!” replied Lexy, but just then the car started forward, and she fell back on the seat. 
“You will come with me,” said Mrs. Enderby. 
That overbearing tone, that grasp on her arm, were very nearly too much for Lexy. She had always been quick-tempered. All the Morans were, and were perversely proud of it, too; but Lexy had learned many lessons in a hard school. She had learned to control her temper, and she did so now. She was silent for a time. 
“All right!” she agreed, at last. “I’ll come. I don’t see what else I can do—now; but after this I’ll have to use my own judgment, Mrs. Enderby.” 
“You have none,” Mrs. Enderby told her calmly. 
Lexy clenched her hands, and again was silent for a moment. 
Lexy reddened again. 
“I don’t mean it that way,” she said. “It’s only that we look at this from different points of view, and I feel—I feel that I’ve got to go.” 
“Very well!” said Mrs. Enderby, and she, too, rose. “You will please to come to my room with me. There is part of your salary to be paid to you.” 
Lexy followed her, still flushed, and very reluctant. She wished she could afford to refuse that money. 
“But I’ve earned it,” she thought; “and goodness knows I’ll need it!” 
Mrs. Enderby sat down at her desk and took out her check book. While she wrote, Lexy looked out of the window. 
“The amount due to you, including to-day, is thirty-two dollars,” said Mrs. Enderby. “Here is a check for it.” 
“Thank you,” said Lexy. 
“One minute more! Here, my child, is another check.” 
Lexy stared at it, amazed. It was for one hundred dollars. 
“But, Mrs. Enderby, I can’t—” 
“You will please take it and say nothing more. I give you this because I shall give you no reference. I shall answer no inquiries about you. You understand?” 
But there was no easy way to touch the money at its most concentrated, purest form. It was like a theoretical superdense element from the first instant of the universe's creation, money so dense it stopped acting like money; money so dense it changed state when you chipped a piece of it off. 
Leon's predecessors had been shrewd and clever. They had walked the length and breadth of the problem space of providing services and products to a person who was money who was a state who was a vat. Many of the nicer grace-notes in the office came from those failed pitches -- the business with the lights and the air, for example. 
Leon had a good education, the kind that came with the mathematics of multidimensional space. He kept throwing axes at his chart of the failed inventions of Ate, Inc., mapping out the many ways in which they were similar and dissimilar. The pattern that emerged was easy to understand. 
They'd tried everything . 
Brautigan's whinny was the most humiliating sound Leon had ever heard, in all his working life. 
We were moving up Market Street now, past the strip joints where the little encampments of bums and junkies sat, stinking like open toilets. Masha guided me to a little alcove in the shut door of one of the strip places. She stripped off her jacket and turned it inside out -- the lining was a muted stripe pattern, and with the jacket's seams reversed, it hung differently. She produced a wool hat from her pocket and pulled it over her hair, letting it form a jaunty, off-center peak. Then she took out some make-up remover wipes and went to work on her face and fingernails. In a minute, she was a different woman. 
"Wardrobe change," she said. "Now you. Lose the shoes, lose the jacket, lose the hat." I could see her point. I let Masha wipe my makeup off and clean my nails and a minute later, I was clean. 
"Switch off your phone," she said. "You carrying any arphids?" 
I had my student card, my ATM card, my Fast Pass. They all went into a silvered bag she held out, which I recognized as a radio-proof Faraday pouch. But as she put them in her pocket, I realized I'd just turned my ID over to her. If she was on the other side... 
I picked 8PM, after dinner. Mom had been bugging me about all the evenings I'd been spending out of the house until I finally spilled the beans about Ange, whereupon she came over all misty and kept looking at me like, my-little-boy's-growing-up. She wanted to meet Ange, and I used that as leverage, promising to bring her over the next night if I could "go to the movies" with Ange tonight. 
Ange's mom and sister were out again -- they weren't real stay-at-homes -- which left me and Ange alone in her room with her Xbox and mine. I unplugged one of her bedside screens and attached my Xbox to it so that we could both login at once. 
Both Xboxes were idle, logged into Clockwork Plunder. I was pacing. 
"It's going to be fine," she said. She glanced at her screen. "Patcheye Pete's Market has 600 players in it now!" We'd picked Patcheye Pete's because it was the market closest to the village square where new players spawned. If the reporters weren't already Clockwork Plunder players -- ha! -- then that's where they'd show up. In my blog post I'd asked people generally to hang out on the route between Patcheye Pete's and the spawn-gate and direct anyone who looked like a disoriented reporter over to Pete's. 
Lexy dismissed that idea with healthy scorn. Things like that didn’t happen; and yet—what was it that gave to the pink and white lamplit room such an air of being deserted? 
“Why, the photographs are gone!” she cried. 
She noticed now for the first time that the photographs of Mr. and Mrs. Enderby in silver frames, which had always stood on the writing desk, were not standing there now. 
She turned to the bureau. Caroline’s silver toilet set was not there. She made a rapid survey of the room, and she made sure of her suspicions. Caroline had gone deliberately, taking with her all the things she would need on a short trip. 
“I’ve got to tell Mrs. Enderby now,” she thought. “It’s only fair.” 
She went out into the corridor, closing the door behind her, and turned toward Mrs. Enderby’s room. She was very, very reluctant, for she dreaded to break the peace of the quiet house by this dramatic announcement. She hated anything in the nature of the sensational. Level-headed, cool, practical, her instinct was to make light of all this, to insist that nothing was really wrong. Caroline had gone, and that was that. 
There was nothing in the world she wanted more at that moment than to see Captain Grey’s sister and to visit Dr. Quelton’s house. She didn’t exactly know why, and she didn’t care, but she wanted to. 
Her trunk had not yet arrived. Indeed, she had only sent to Mrs. Enderby’s for it that morning, but she was able to make herself presentable with what she had in her bag, and excitement gave her an added charm. She was in high spirits, gay and sparkling, so pretty and so lively that Captain Grey was quite dazzled. 
He had engaged the one and only taxi. 
After they were settled in it, and on their way along the muddy road, he said: “I say, Miss Moran, are there many American girls like you?” 
“No!” replied Lexy calmly. “I’m unique.” 
“I can believe that!” he said. “I’ve never seen any one like you. I was telling Muriel how much I hope that you and she will hit it off. It would be a wonderful thing for her to have a friend like you in this place.” 
Something in his tone made Lexy turn serious. He was speaking as if she was simply a nice girl he had happened to meet, as if she had nothing to do but go out to tea and make agreeable friendships. 
"Yes," I mumbled. 
"Good boy," she purred. "We have some papers here for you to sign." She pushed the stack of papers across the table to me. Little post-its with SIGN HERE printed on them had been stuck throughout them. A guard undid my cuffs. 
I paged through the papers and my eyes watered and my head swam. I couldn't make sense of them. I tried to decipher the legalese. It seemed that I was signing a declaration that I had been voluntarily held and submitted to voluntary questioning, of my own free will. 
"What happens if I don't sign this?" I said. 
She snatched the papers back and made that flicking gesture again. The guards jerked me to my feet. 
"Wait!" I cried. "Please! I'll sign them!" They dragged me to the door. All I could see was that door, all I could think of was it closing behind me. 
I lost it. I wept. I begged to be allowed to sign the papers. To be so close to freedom and have it snatched away, it made me ready to do anything. I can't count the number of times I've heard someone say, "Oh, I'd rather die than do something-or-other" -- I've said it myself now and again. But that was the first time I understood what it really meant. I would have rather died than go back to my cell. 
"Prince," answered the Princess, "it is enough for me to have seen you, to tell you that I obey without reluctance." 
When Rebecca alighted from the train at Maplewood and hurried to the post-office where the stage was standing, what was her joy to see uncle Jerry Cobb holding the horses' heads. 
"The reg'lar driver 's sick," he explained, "and when they sent for me, thinks I to myself, my drivin' days is over, but Rebecky won't let the grass grow under her feet when she gits her aunt Jane's letter, and like as not I'll ketch her to-day; or, if she gits delayed, to-morrow for certain. So here I be jest as I was more 'n six year ago. Will you be a real lady passenger, or will ye sit up in front with me?" 
Emotions of various sorts were all struggling together in the old man's face, and the two or three bystanders were astounded when they saw the handsome, stately girl fling herself on Mr. Cobb's dusty shoulder crying like a child. "Oh, uncle Jerry!" she sobbed; "dear uncle Jerry! It's all so long ago, and so much has happened, and we've grown so old, and so much is going to happen that I'm fairly frightened." 
"So I began trying to work with her." He was turning back to me. "But then I discovered she'd been born with an abnormality of the uterus. It has a medical name, but suffice to say it's very rare, and afflicts only about one woman in twenty thousand. Even after my diagnosis, though, she re­fused to give up. She was a person of enormous tenacity." 
God, I thought. Why didn't she come home to us, to Lou and me? We loved her. I felt my guilt go out to her all over again. 
"She next declared she wanted to come here to Baalum , to the place of miracles. I told her that, yes, miracles can sometimes transpire here, but only at a great price. We would need to have an agreement and she would have to keep it no matter what." 
"What do you mean, an agree—?" 
"Truthfully, though," he went on, ignoring me, "I imme­diately regretted the offer, since I realized she was far too unstable for this . . . environment. Finally I forbade her to come, but just before my next scheduled trip she found out and booked herself on the same flight. There was literally nothing I could do to stop her." 
Kilgore walks in the door, sniffs at the air and makes a face. "Sure, we're moving to the Garden Level, he says. You didn't mention that it would be armpit of the Garden Level." An amused glance at Rodriguez over his shoulder. "Maybe we can talk him into letting us telecommute. What do you say, sir?" 
Ray is standing in the kitchenette, examining the diagnostic terminal as it runs through it's starting sequence. 
Kilgore's response: "And the place has got rats, too!" 
Apparently it was clear enough. 
Ray continues, "Toss your gear in the bedroom. It's down the hall on the left. The bathroom is on the right, but in case you haven't figured it out, we don't have running water, so don't use it. Locating shower facilities is completely dependent on your own personal initiative. You'll each be issued a ship's credit chip for meals and other purchases, so if you don't think you've got the right clothes for this job, you'll be able to take care of that. I expect you to take your meals in the food court, either singly or in tandem. Try to spread the wealth, be seen in as many places as possible so people get used to looking at you. You're free to use your real names in conversation, but try not tell people that you're Marines. More than likely they'll figure it out for themselves, 
"Your son is sick?" Sean said. 
"Not sick, no," Adele said. "You wouldn't believe the roaches you get down here! Old Ross fumigates regular, but Florida roaches don't seem to care. I've lived in New York, and I've seen some pretty big roaches in my day, but not like these. Like cats! My boy, Ethan, he'd clean and clean our apartment in New York, quiet as you please, a good boy. Then he'd see a roach and whim-wham, he'd be talking, joking, skipping and running. Old Ross says there's nothing he can do -- he says, 'Adele, this is Florida , and the roaches were here long before us, and they'll be here long after, and nothing we do is going to keep them away.' That's all fine and good, but let me tell you, I've never seen a roach in the Home when I was visiting Ethan. They know how to keep them out. Maybe it's all the shouting. Lord, but they do shout!" 
A small lightbulb blinked in Sean's mind. "Is Ethan very high-functioning?" he asked, carefully. 
Adele glanced sidelong at him and said, "The doctor says no. But I think he is. He's always walking around when I'm there, doing push-ups and sit-ups. He's not a young man, Ethan -- sixty this year! When his father was that age, he didn't do any push-ups, no sir! But the doctor, he says that Ethan's at zero function. Doctors! What do they know?" 
“Then I didn’t want you to know!” she sobbed. “Captain Grey—he sat there with me. Lexy! Lexy! I didn’t know there was any one like him in the world! I wanted to stay, then. I thought, if you found out, I’d have to go away—to go home again, or to marry Charles. I’d promised to marry him, Lexy, but I can’t! Not now!” 
“Hush, darling!” said Lexy hastily. 
This was something Captain Grey had no right to hear, but he did hear it. He was still standing outside the door, motionless. 
“He was so kind!” Caroline went on. “And his face—” 
“Never mind that!” Lexy interrupted sternly. “Tell me how you got away.” 
“When he came back, he found George there—I had to call him George.” 
“Yes, I see. Never mind!” 
“George went away, and then—he told me. He said his wife had died a few months ago, and that in her will she’d left some jewel—a ruby—” 
“An emerald,” corrected Lexy. 
“Yes—it was an emerald. She’d left it to her brother, and he—Dr. Quelton—had taken it long ago, and sold it, to get money for his horrible drugs. She never knew that, and he didn’t tell her lawyer that she’d died. I don’t know how he managed, or what he did, but nobody knew. Then there came a letter from her brother, to say that he was coming; and the doctor said—I’ll never forget it: 
> I want to get a bunch of really trustworthy people together and do a key-exchange web of trust thing. 
Web of trust is one of those cool crypto things that I'd read about but never tried. It was a nearly foolproof way to make sure that you could talk to the people you trusted, but that no one else could listen in. The problem is that it requires you to physically meet with the people in the web at least once, just to get started. 
> I get it sure. That's not bad. But how you going to get everyone together for the key-signing? 
> That's what I wanted to ask you about -- how can we do it without getting busted? 
Jolu typed some words and erased them, typed more and erased them. 
> Darryl would know. 
I typed. 
> God, this was the stuff he was great at. 
> How about a party? 
he typed. 
> How about if we all get together somewhere like we're teenagers having a party and that way we'll have a ready-made excuse if anyone shows up asking us what we're doing there? 
> That would totally work! You're a genius, Jolu. 
"It was kind of a gold net bag with a chain," said Mrs. Perkins, "and there was five ten-dollar gold pieces in it. Herbert Dunn's was put in a fine leather wallet." 
"How long is Rebecca goin' to stay at the farm?" asked Delia. 
"Till they get over Hannah's bein' married, and get the house to runnin' without her," answered Mrs. Perkins. "It seems as if Hannah might 'a' waited a little longer. Aurelia was set against her goin' away while Rebecca was at school, but she's obstinate as a mule, Hannah is, and she just took her own way in spite of her mother. She's been doin' her sewin' for a year; the awfullest coarse cotton cloth she had, but she's nearly blinded herself with fine stitchin' and rufflin' and tuckin'. Did you hear about the quilt she made? It's white, and has a big bunch o' grapes in the centre, quilted by a thimble top. Then there's a row of circle-borderin' round the grapes, and she done them the size of a spool. The next border was done with a sherry glass, and the last with a port glass, an' all outside o' that was solid stitchin' done in straight rows; she's goin' to exhibit it at the county fair." 
My longhand scribbles expanded over page after page. As I finished each one I tore it off and spread them out in order over every available surface. By the wee hours of the morning, the floor was carpeted in scrawled-on yellow paper, the walls had sheets Scotch-taped up to form an overlapping wallpaper, and the cardboard backs from five dead legal pads lay discarded in a corner while I scribbled on a sixth. 
When I heard tires on the dirt road, I dropped my pen, slung a rifle over my back, and picked up the pump-action Mossberg beside it. I was pretty sure it was only Rio and Checker, but better to be safe. I slipped out the back door into the pitch darkness of the desert night, the sky crusted in stars above me. 
Headlights cut through the blackness at the top of the drive. It was indeed Rio, helming a large white van with Checker in the front seat. After acknowledging my shadow with a nod—Rio was nothing if not aware of his surroundings—he got out and stepped over to flick an outside switch and bring several floodlights to life, blanching the scene in white light. I lowered the shotgun and stepped out from the wall of the house as Rio went around to the back of the van to start unloading boxes. 
It was unthinkable that the invisible ants that governed all human endeavor should catastrophically fail, but fail they did, catastrophically, on the occasion of Trish's eighth date with Damian. It took nineteen seconds for the cascade of errors to slow every car on the Interstate to a halt, to light up the dashboard with a grim xmas tree of errors, to still the stereo and freeze the tickers of information and context that they had come to think of as the crawling embodiment of the colony that routed all the traffic that made up their universe. 
"We are going to be: So. Late," Damian said, and Trish swiveled in her seat to look at him. He was Fretting again, his forehead wrinkled and his hands clenched on the steering wheel. When they traded massages (third date) and she'd rubbed at his hands, she'd found them tensed into claws that crackled with knuckle-fluid when she bent each finger back and rubbed sandalwood-scented oil into it. He was mighty cute for a neurotic -- at least he knew it when he was being nuts. Not that he'd stop being nuts, but he'd cheerfully admit it. 
Tresting pointed a finger at me, as if to say, bingo. 
“They’re killing people in ways the police can write off easily,” I realized. “Close the case.” 
“Senseless tragedies,” he agreed. “Don’t know how Polk got Kingsley to write that note, but if it wasn’t for Leena—” He broke off. “Shit. Leena.” 
He strode back to his gun safe, spun the combination to open it, and started reloading his Beretta. “You armed?” 
“I will be in a minute.” I picked my way through the debris and slipped weapons out of the lifeless fingers of Tresting’s teenage attackers. The girl by the window had been toting a TEC-9 illegally converted to full auto; the others had two Glocks and a cheap and ugly Smith & Wesson semiautomatic. Jesus, it was irritating enough they had to be so young; couldn’t they at least do us the courtesy of carrying nice hardware? 
Tresting had his phone to his ear as he reloaded; he left a terse message for Dr. Kingsley to take her son, get somewhere anonymous, and call him back. He hung up and holstered the Beretta, then reached back into his safe to hoist out a shotgun that I didn’t need my math ability to tell was far too short to be legal. He wrapped it in a spare shirt like a bundle of curtain rods and completely ignored me when I raised my eyebrows at him. 
It was a Friday night, and the kid was at the movies, at Fairview Mall. He’d sat down in auditorium two half an hours ago, and had gotten up to pee once already. Arturo slipped the toy soldiers into the pocket of his winter parka and pulled on a hat and gloves and set off for the mall. 
The stink of the smellie movie clogged his nose, a cacophony of blood, gore, perfume and flowers, the only smells that Hollywood ever really perfected. Liam was kissing a girl in the dark, but it wasn’t Ada, it was a sad, skinny thing with a lazy eye and skin worse than Liam’s. She gawked at Arturo as he hauled Liam out of his seat, but a flash of Arturo’s badge shut her up. 
“Hello, Liam,” he said, once he had the kid in the commandeered manager’s office. 
“God damn what the fuck did I ever do to you?” the kid said. Arturo knew that when kids started cursing like that, they were scared of something. 
“Where has Ada gone, Liam?” 
“Haven’t seen her in months,” he said. 
“I have been bugging you ever since I found out you existed. Every one of your movements has been logged. I know where you’ve been and when. And I know where my daughter has been, too. Try again.” 
But whoever this was probably felt confident he’d wiped the evidence clean. Just like Checker felt confident. And with the NSA’s spying eyes being turned toward us right now...my thoughts soured. 
“It’s not like I can tell he did it,” Checker continued. “It’s more like, I can tell things are gone, and the work is trademark Lancer. Thus, I’m assuming. If the Lancer’s not one of the people who has her, then maybe he’s someone close to them. Or works for them.” 
I supposed there was nothing I could do about my own digital footprint anyway. Fucking information age. “How does this help us?” 
“Because I might be able to trace him. Not to his location; he’s too good. But through his activities, by looking for his shadow, so to speak. I can figure out what he’s doing.” 
“We know what he’s doing,” I said. “He’s going to code up an algorithm to Halliday’s proof and then they’re going to rob the world blind.” Shit, we’d been assuming the programming would take time, but these men already had half the equation: a computer expert who could do the work. 
“I’ll have to wait,” Lexy went on. “I’ll have to find out more from Mr. Houseman. Perhaps they misunderstood each other. It’s no use trying to guess. I’ll have to wait till I see him.” 
She recalled his honest, sunburned face with great good will. He was her ally. He was young, like herself, not old and cautious and deliberate. She liked him. She trusted him. In her loneliness and anxiety, he seemed a friend. 
Annie opened the door with her customary air of disapproval. 
“Yes, miss,” she answered. “Mrs. Enderby came home in the car half an hour ago. Dinner’ll be served in ten minutes. Here’s a letter for you. A young man left it about twenty minutes ago.” 
“If I’d taken a taxi from Grand Central, I’d have seen him!” was Lexy’s first thought. 
Even a letter was something, however, and she ran upstairs with it, very much pleased. Of course, it was from Mr. Houseman. She locked the door, and, standing against it, looked at the envelope. It was addressed to “Miss Lexy” in a good clear hand. That made her smile, remembering her first indignation that morning. 
"I'm fixing to lay down and die," Lee-Daniel said, stretching theatrically, his pipe-cleaner arms straining. "You're street-legal in New York, right? How about you drive the bus for the next couple shifts?" 
"Seriously?" MacDiarmid said. His black hair was showing grey now, but his eyebrows were still fierce and black, his eyes still sharp in their nest of whiskey-cured crows-feet. 
It was rare for Lee-Daniel to cede the wheel to anyone else -- it was his damned company and he'd drive the damned bus. Lee-Daniel saw the shareholder confidence eroding before his eyes. 
"Just for a while, OK? Not permanent, just for a day or two, just long enough for me to get over the sleep-deficit and re-grow some stomach lining." It was hard being CEO of a mobile multinational. The shareholder oversight was murder. 
MacDiarmid looked closely at him, then smiled and gave him a burly man-hug that smelled of sandalwood soap and good liquor. "Yeah, of course, of course. I'll put it to the Board Meeting tonight at dinner. Can't have the CEO burning out at the wheel, that's what I'll say, don't worry about it, LD." 
The switchgirl -- a network engineer he'd hired himself from a backwater DeVry at a job-fair in Tulsa, who ran a little to fat but was still broad-shouldered from her time on the rowing machine she shlepped compulsively from gig to gig, facts that Lee-Daniel could recall with ease even if he couldn't remember her name -- turned back and passed the word onto a surveyor who was standing a little ways out of the way, who relayed it to Joey Riel, who was by the doorway, who stuck his head into the corridor. 
Mortimer sauntered back into the auditorium. He put the mic to his lips and boomed "You want something, boss?" 
Lee-Daniel clamped his hands to his ears along with the rest of the crew. "No need to shout," he said to Mortimer. "Is there?" he said to Meatloaf. 
"So, what's the critical path, Mac?" Lee-Daniel asked. "Who's going to run this circus between tonight and your executive search coming through with an empty suit to sit in the driver's seat?" 
"We thought you'd stay on, LD, help with a smooth transition." 
“Right,” said Checker. “Uh. Sorry, Arthur—we need the intel, right?” 
“Find anything?” said Arthur unhappily. 
“Aside from the fact that I’m pretty sure whoever stole her notes cloned her hard drives, because it would be easy so why not do it, yes, I did. First of all, the note she showed you guys was emailed to her first, probably right after the robbery.” 
“She didn’t mention that,” I said. 
“Because she didn’t see it. It went to spam. That’s probably why she didn’t get the note until the next day.” 
Hmm. How had the perpetrators known their email had gotten spammed? Maybe they’d left spyware on her computer. It didn’t seem likely they would’ve broken back into her office unless they’d known they needed to. 
“Also, you know the email she sent to her friend at the NSA?” Checker continued. “The reason she approached him wasn’t that she was robbed. She started talking to him about the proof a few weeks ago, way before the burglary. I’m guessing she thought to start checking in with him about NSA possibilities after she finished the proof, but maybe she wanted to sit on the result for a little while before turning it over. Point is, that’s a pretty big coincidence.” 
"It's not your fault." She took a long drink. I hadn't both­ered with ice, and I immediately felt I'd been inhospitable. Kind of a vagrant, minor concern, considering. Then she went on. "I guess I knew down deep I shouldn't have given you that interview. But I wanted the world to know about Kevin. Now, though . . . should I call the police or some­thing?" 
The short answer to that was yes, but my mind was already skipping on to a different topic. 
"Carly, do you know where Kevin came from? Really came from? Did you ever actually try to find out?" 
She sighed and took another sip. 
"I told you I don't care. When they brought him, all pink and helpless, I just—" 
"Who brought him?" I interrupted. 
"Well, I'd been up there the day before, signing all the papers. I was supposed to go up that day, but then somebody called and said one of the girls who was staying in the clinic or whatever it is was bringing him to me. So don't come." 
"You're saying one of the girls—?" 
"Yeah." She looked wistful for a moment, as though re­membering. "Then she just showed up, looked like some blond college dropout. I guess a little more fanfare would've been nice, but Marcy was there to help me and that was it. That's the last contact I ever had with Children of Light." She shuddered involuntarily. "Till now." 
Once everything was in place, I made a...  sharpen my brain before the show. When I checked the time on my phone, I remembered that picture I’d taken of Simon. The wall I’d built to keep it in a dark corner of my brain crumbled for a moment, but even though it made me feel a little sick and shaky, I was glad because I realized there was a good chance I would get arrested. I quickly composed an email to Char- lie from my Secret Avenger account, warning her the photo I had attached could be triggering, but Simon had been unmasked and his days of attacking women were over. 
I pressed send. No matter what she did with it, there would be a copy in the Secret Avenger’s encrypted email account in case my phone got confiscated by the cops and the photo accidentally-on-purpose deleted. 
All that was left to do was chill until the FBI showed up. 
Which turned out to be no wait at all because they came an hour early. 
Sarah barely had time to dart back behind the curtain when we heard steps on the front porch. Marita stood frozen for a moment, 
I needed this proof. 
Without it, I was nothing. With it, with the algorithm Rita Martinez claimed she had...I could discover any result, make mathematics unfurl before me, answer the most profound questions in the universe. 
With it, I could do real math. 
And that was all that fucking mattered. 
“Arthur, talk some sense into her,” I said, desperate and no longer caring. We’d already tried everything else to find Martinez. Now we’d caught on that the best and maybe the only thing we could use to lure her out was Halliday herself, and we knew what she had, and Halliday was saying no? 
“Dr. Martinez stole your work,” I added to the professor. “She stole your work, and it led to you getting kidnapped, and even then she said nothing. If she’s got a polynomial-time reduction, she might have halved the search time we took tracking you down—” We might have avoided the Feds entirely; “She didn’t know what you can do,” Halliday pointed out. “She didn’t know how you were searching.” 
“Yeah, because a Hamiltonian cycle isn’t one of the most famous NP-complete problems of all time! She left you to die! If she’d rubbed two brain cells together, she would have known we were using some type of search algorithm and that her math could have helped—” 
"It's a pity she's so plain looking," remarked Mrs. Cobb, blowing out the candle. 
"PLAIN LOOKING, mother?" exclaimed her husband in astonishment. "Look at the eyes of her; look at the hair of her, an' the smile, an' that there dimple! Look at Alice Robinson, that's called the prettiest child on the river, an' see how Rebecca shines her ri' down out o' sight! I hope Mirandy'll favor her comin' over to see us real often, for she'll let off some of her steam here, an' the brick house'll be consid'able safer for everybody concerned. We've known what it was to hev children, even if 't was more 'n thirty years ago, an' we can make allowances." 
Notwithstanding the encomiums of Mr. and Mrs. Cobb, Rebecca made a poor hand at composition writing at this time. Miss Dearborn gave her every sort of subject that she had ever been given herself: Cloud Pictures; Abraham Lincoln; Nature; Philanthropy; Slavery; Intemperance; Joy and Duty; Solitude; but with none of them did Rebecca seem to grapple satisfactorily. 
“Well, after this morning, first let’s figure if we got a tail, and— wait.” 
I froze, the key hovering next to the ignition. 
“Your seat’s different,” said Arthur. “Don’t press the pedals, but tell me if I’m right.” 
I stretched out my foot next to the brake. He was right. The seat had moved back by almost an inch. 
“Well, crap,” I said. 
Arthur reached up and jammed a key into the housing of the rearview mirror to pull it apart. He pried the whole mirror off the windshield and dropped it between his feet, pushing at it with the side of one boot so he could get a view under his own seat. “I’m clear.” Very slowly and carefully, he leaned across the console and put his head down by my feet, where he could see under mine. “Yup. Car bomb.” 
“Great,” I said. “How’s it put together?” The last thing I needed was to be stuck here until the police arrived. Or, well, blown up by remote. That would probably be worse. 
Arthur fumbled out a pen light and clicked it on. “I ain’t no expert, but it looks like a tilt fuse,” he said after a moment. “Those are what’s most common right now anyways.” 
“Pithica,” said Tresting. 
My hand tightened on the grip of the Smith & Wesson—I itched to have a target again, but who was my enemy? Or what? “I say again,” I addressed the room at large. “What the hell is going on?” 
“I interviewed Senator Hammond’s assistant,” said Tresting. “From Kingsley’s, Reginald Kingsley’s, notes. Same thing, almost word for word. Assistant remembered the Senator saying he ‘supposed’ he had a liedown. Except then he about-faced on a nuclear arms treaty.” 
“So someone from Pithica is telling her to say this,” I said. 
Tresting was watching Dr. Kingsley very closely. “Or something.” 
Kingsley drew away from him. “What are you implying?” 
Tresting didn’t answer. “What do you say, Agent Finch?” 
“Unfortunately, this is need-to-know,” said Finch. “What connection do the two of you have to Dr. Kingsley?” 
“Unfortunately, that’s need-to-know,” I parroted back at him, and raised my gun again. “You know something about Polk, and about Pithica, don’t you? You’re going to tell us.” 
He used to get that quite a bit, back when he was fresh to EED, away from Terran space, where...  hispanics were curiosities, cultural artifacts for people who had left Terra in their youth, or knew all they did about her from books and vids and computer software. Enamored by Aztecs was what they were. 
Except, he's not really even hispanic, either, not in the classical, racial, cultural sense. His great-great-grandfather was hispanic, actually lived in a Mexicali barrio. But his great-great-grandmother was Swiss- Austrian. They both had spoken pure, unadulterated American from birth. Worked in American cities, 
held American jobs, and after the Annexation Act, paid American taxes in return for American citizenship. 
All Rodriguez had left of his "heritage" was a touch of the looks (which was good) and the name (which was frequently a liability). He was about as close to being Aztec as he was to being authentically hispanic. 
Him, he grew up in the suburbs outside Baton Rouge where his father was a chipset design engineer, then moved to Chicago when he was twelve, which excoriated anything like an accent he might have developed.  He prefers burgers to tortilla anything. He likes pale, bookish girls with long, light colored hair. Girls cut from his mother's mold, maybe not so surprisingly. 
The third was in a black sweatshirt and black jeans, his long salt-and-pepper hair tied back in a ponytail. 
"They should have known better than to bring her out here," Alex Goddard said. "Not in her condition." 
The bastard. It was all coming together in my mind. He'd tried to kill her once before, and now he was going to finish the job. But he'd have to kill me first. 
"I'm here to take her home." I marched up to him. "You're not about to get away with kidnapping. I'm going to get the embassy to—" 
"She's here for important medical reasons." He met my eyes. "I hope you'll allow me the opportunity to help her." 
"What do you mean, 'help'?" 
"I'll explain if you'll give me a chance." He revolved and delivered some brusque orders in Kekchi Maya to the women, who nodded apologetically and began helping Sarah back onto the palanquin. After he admonished her in the same language, he then said...  Army privates, who gave him a firm salute, turned, and walked over to pick the palanquin up, to carry it for the women. The sense of authority he exuded reminded me of that first morning we met at Quetzal Manor. His eyes flashed from benign to demanding to benign in an instant. 
That was the moment when the heavy office door swung open and Marcelina appeared. 
"Your room is ready now." Her English was heavily ac­cented but sure. "He sent me to show you. And I can wash any of your things if you like." 
My room? Whoa! Since when had I checked in? 
"Marcelina, we need to talk. What happened to Sarah the last time she was here? Was she operated on like that woman just now?" 
I also planned to ask her about all the bizarre trappings surrounding the procedure. Why was the woman so sucked in by his phony Mardi Gras mysticism? Had Sarah fallen for it too? 
"Sara was one of the special ones. You are surely blessed too. You resemble her a lot." She looked at me, affection in her dark eyes, then turned and headed out the door. "But come, let me take you up." 
Of course I resembled her; she was my cousin. But so what? I didn't like the odd way she'd said it. And what about my question? 
Watching her walk away, clearly nervous, I realized this was the moment I'd been dreading—when I had to make a decision about how far to play along with Alex Goddard. Steve couldn't be reached, yet, but I still might be able to handle the situation on my own. The first thing to do was to get down to Sarah and talk some sense into her. Then I had to arrange for a way to get us both out. 
Now clanking noises were filtering in from out in the hall, along with the pounding of heavy boots, and my pulse jumped again. Was the Army coming to drag me away? 
Just go in. Do it. 
The CRT screens were attached to black metal containers, their doors closed, that all were connected to a power supply, doubtless to maintain some temperature. It looked like God­dard was incubating something in a carefully controlled en­vironment. The whole arrangement was very carefully organized and laid out. 
Finally I noticed a row of large steel jugs, six in all, near the back and covered with a sheet of black plastic, thin like a wrap. What could they be? Some kind of special gas for use in the...  the hallway. A woman and a man were arguing about something. 
Okay, get out of here. Come back and check this out when nobody's around. 
I stepped back into the office, clicked off the thumb latch on the door so it wouldn't lock, and closed it. I realized I was pouring sweat. It would be a long shot, but still . . . 
After one of these private luncheons Rebecca had been tempted beyond her strength, and when Minnie took her seat among them asked, "Is your headache better, Minnie? Let me wipe off that strawberry jam over your mouth." 
There was no jam there as a matter of fact, but the guilty Minnie's handkerchief went to her crimson face in a flash. 
Rebecca confessed to Emma Jane that same afternoon that she felt ashamed of her prank. "I do hate her ways," she exclaimed, "but I'm sorry I let her know we 'spected her; and so to make up, I gave her that little piece of broken coral I keep in my bead purse; you know the one?" 
"It don't hardly seem as if she deserved that, and her so greedy," remarked Emma Jane. 
"I know it, but it makes me feel better," said Rebecca largely; "and then I've had it two years, and it's broken so it wouldn't ever be any real good, beautiful as it is to look at." 
The coral had partly served its purpose as a reconciling bond, when one afternoon Rebecca, who had stayed after school for her grammar lesson as usual, was returning home by way of the short cut. Far ahead, beyond the bars, she espied the Simpson children just entering the woodsy bit. Seesaw was not with them, so she hastened her steps in order to secure company on her homeward walk. They were speedily lost to view, but when she had almost overtaken them she heard, in the trees beyond, Minnie Smellie's voice lifted high in song, and the sound of a child's sobbing. 
Kate jumped when he said her name, and the Isaac hooted. “Kate! It is you! I knew it ” 
She stamped her foot against Robbie’s floor. “You followed me. I told you not to follow me,” she said. 
“Would you like to hear about our dive-site?” Robbie said self-consciously, dipping his oars and pulling for the wreck. 
“You’ve said quite enough,” Kate said. “By the first law, I demand silence.” 
“That’s the second law,” Robbie said. “OK, I’ll let you know when we get there.” 
“Kate,” Isaac said, “I know you didn’t want me here, but I had to come. We need to talk this out.” 
“There’s nothing to talk out,” she said. 
“It’s not fair .” Isaac’s voice was anguished. “After everything I went through—” 
She snorted. “That’s enough of that,” she said. 
“Um,” Robbie said. “Dive site up ahead. You two really need to check out each others’ gear.” Of course they were qualified, you had to at least install the qualifications before you could get onto the Free Spirit and the human-shells had lots of muscle memory to help. So they were technically able to check each other out, that much was sure. They were palpably reluctant to do so, though, and Robbie had to give them guidance. 
"You have at least two lines, Rebecca," insisted the teacher, "for I see them on your slate." 
"I'd rather not read them, please; they are not good," pleaded Rebecca. 
"Read what you have, good or bad, little or much; I am excusing nobody." 
Dick Carter's head disappeared under the desk, while Living Perkins choked with laughter. 
Miss Dearborn laughed too; she was little more than a girl, and the training of the young idea seldom appealed to the sense of humor. 
"You must stay after school and try again, Rebecca," she said, but she said it smilingly. "Your poetry hasn't a very nice idea in it for a good little girl who ought to love duty." 
"It wasn't MY idea," said Rebecca apologetically. 
"That is better," Miss Dearborn answered, "though I cannot think 'going to smash' is a pretty expression for poetry." 
Having been instructed in the use of the indefinite pronoun "one" as giving a refined and elegant touch to literary efforts, Rebecca painstakingly rewrote her composition on solitude, giving it all the benefit of Miss Dearborn's suggestion. 
What if I stepped off the case and the DHS found Halliday and then buried her and Arthur and Checker and Pilar so deep no one ever saw them again? 
I wiped off the sweat dampening my forehead with another Five Spirit Valley Karate T-shirt. 
But what could I do anyway? Unless Checker came up with another approach, I’d run out of leads to chase down. 
Everything had been taken out of my hands. I had no responsibility here. Face it, you’re only clinging to this job because you want something to cling to. 
It was probably true. 
That was it, then. I was done. 
Fuck that noise, said something deep in the back of my brain. You’re not done. Arthur asked for your help—stop whining and help. 
I winced. 
I’d go back to Checker’s. Whatever he was working on to track the explosives expert or the Lancer, I could probably be valuable. I could even grit my teeth and tolerate it if Pilar took the intel to the NSA afterward—the important part was that someone would find Halliday. Or maybe we’d discover enough for me to go out after her again myself, once I’d regained a little energy. That would be a far more preferable course of events. 
He barely hesitated. “Yes.” 
“Off the text I sent you?” 
“Yes.” 
I swallowed. 
“Cas, if it helps, they were not the wrong people.” 
I thought about how young the receptionist had been. Whatever mistakes she had made, her youth had not excused her from Rio wreaking God’s vengeance. 
“Cas?” he said. 
“Did you learn anything?” I asked quietly. 
“Yes. Many things.” 
“You aren’t going to tell me what they are, are you.” 
“I would hardly have gone to such lengths to keep them from you only to divulge them later,” he answered. 
I thought of the shredded and pulped papers. “Right.” 
“What you shared with me today is valuable also,” said Rio. “I shall put it to good use. And although I cannot say for sure, I do not believe Dawna Polk has influenced you further.” 
“Oh...good. Thanks.” 
“Of course.” 
“Are you trying to take down Pithica?” I asked. 
“Yes.” 
“And you want me to stay out of it.” 
“Yes. Will you?” 
I closed my eyes. I had no leads. Tresting wasn’t talking to me. Courtney was gone. Rio wouldn’t help me. I had no allies, and nothing to follow up on. 
The initial destination was part of my new plan, hatched while I was on the plane. When I was reading my guidebook and filling out my entry card I'd had a bright idea. I knew exactly how I wanted to begin. 
Heading into town, the time now the middle of the after­noon, I leaned back in the seat and tried to absorb the view, to get a feeling for where I was. We first traveled through the suburban fringes, the heavily guarded luxurious man­sions of the landholding and military elite, the one percent of Guatemala who own ninety-nine percent of the country. Iron fences and wide expanses of lawn, protected by Uzi-toting security, guarded whimsical architectural con­ceits topped by silver satellite dishes. A twenty-foot wall shielded their delicate eyes from the city's largest shanty-town, makeshift hovels of bamboo and rusted tin, with no signs of water or drains or toilets. Guatemala City: as Steve had put it once, a million doomed citizens, the rich and the poor, trapped together side by side in the most "modern" capital in Central America. 
I moved toward the door in a daze. 
“Are you leaving?” asked the old man. He sounded sad. “You could stay for dinner. I have the kind in the little trays.” 
“I have to go,” I got out. 
“We didn’t find your mother’s notes,” he said. He turned his head from side to side, lost. “I know they were here somewhere. She said the end was coming, you know.” 
She had been right. 
He’d better stock up on more of those dinners with the trays. I didn’t tell him that. I didn’t say anything. I just let myself out. 
Once on the street, my legs went limp and I sat down hard on the curb. Martinez hadn’t found a factoring proof. She’d found something so much more explosive, so much more deadly. 
She’d proven the Holy Grail of mathematics. The impossible dream. She’d solved the P versus NP problem, and she’d proven them equal. 
I didn’t have enough of her notes to see how she’d done it. But there was enough context around the lemmas, enough explanation in her cramped handwriting, to know something of what she’d been doing. She’d been building a polynomial-time algorithm for 3-SAT. 
just barely avoiding saying Thai Guy. When I glanced back to turn a corner, I saw Monica was still watching me, still looking worried. She could probably tell I needed to chill out, but it wasn’t because my brother was in jail. I was desperate to know what Wheeze had written on that crumpled piece of paper. 
I t was freaky riding home. Police cars seemed to be every- where. Wheeze and I had made being aware of our surround- ings into an elaborate role-playing game. It had been exciting and fun, but this was just scary. I was churning with curiosity about the message Wheeze had scribbled on the back of the pizza flier, 
but I didn’t want to look at it in public. It felt like I was carrying a bomb in my pocket instead of a crumpled piece of paper. 
I got home without being pulled over by police or being tailed by suspicious unmarked cars. Nobody was sitting in a car parked along the curb, watching our house. When I got into our apart- ment, I scanned the backyard carefully and didn’t see any men in utility company outfits carrying clipboards and pretending they had some reason to be hanging out in my alley on a cold Sunday afternoon. The little tell-tale things I had set up before leaving to tell me if anyone had been in our apartment were undisturbed. 
Lee-Daniel knew he should have gotten them to pay upfront. Nothing got the blackshirts interested in private wireless networking like routing suspicious real-time chatter between Burmese guerrilla cells and suspected movie-swappers in DC. But that wasn't how CogRadio had been built. The native bands that were desperate enough to assert that their ancestral treaties didn't encompass the RF spectrum couldn't afford to lay out cash for CogRadio's hardware, training and remote administration. CogRadio was as much a bank as a technology startup. 
With the investors off out of sight, the managers and the front-liners shucked their veneer of civility and began to get wild, ordering drinks and health-insurance-invalidating carbo-treats. Elaine sucked down three tequila cartons and glared bleary hostility at him. 
"The fuck do you know about anything , hey?" she said. "You're supposed to be in charge of things, but you don't take a shit without clearing it with those bastards." She jerked her head over her shoulder at the closed door of the private dining room. "And when you do make a decision, you fuck it up." The smell of old sweat and booze made his eyes water. 
I spent all last night throwing up, and I'm not sure if I'm going to go to the office today. 
Hi Mom! 
Well, I didn't go to work yesterday. Instead, I got out of bed, sat on the sofa in my shorts, and turned on the movies. My watch got loud and angry, so I stuck it underneath my pillow. Then, messages started appearing on my TV. I ignored them. 
Someone knocked on my door after lunch, but I was watching a good part in Wall Street, so I didn't answer it. 
I fell asleep after Wall Street, and woke up after 18h, because someone was really giving my door a pounding. 
I opened the door, not caring that I was wearing my shorts. It was Rhindquist. He looked sad, and beaten. You know what he did? He gave me a hug! Boy, that was weird. 
He came in and sat on the sofa. I sat next to him. He didn't say anything, just picked up the remote and put on a funny movie, Blazing Saddles. When that was over, he put on The Princess Bride. I never laughed so much! 
We watched movies all night. They were all funny. They took my mind off things. We both fell asleep, sitting on the sofa, but when I woke up, I was in bed, and Rhindquist had put the blanket over me. He was asleep on the sofa. His phone was on the TV, and its batteries were on the floor. 
“Er—yes, quite so!” he interrupted suavely. “I shan’t stop a minute.” 
He came nearer, but the nurse drew back and stood with her back against the door. 
“Dr. Quelton has given strict orders—” she repeated. 
“No more of that, please!” he said with a frown. “I’m going to see Mrs. Quelton for a moment. Stand aside, please!” 
He did not raise his voice, but the quality of it was oddly changed. Lexy felt a thrill of pleasure in its cool assurance and authority. Perhaps he objected very much to “making a row,” but what a glorious row he could make if he chose! If he would only once face Dr. Quelton like this! 
“Stand aside, if you please!” he repeated, and the poor little nurse, very much flustered, did so. 
“I’m afraid Dr. Quelton will be—” she began, but Captain Grey had already entered the room. 
The nurse followed him, closing the door after her. Lexy opened it at once and went in after them. She caught a glimpse of the young man and the nurse vanishing through one of the long windows that led out to the balcony. For a moment she hesitated, looking about her at the big, dim room. The dark shades were pulled down, and not a trace of the spring’s brightness entered here. 
tasted his grotty mouth, felt his tongue poking around my teeth. 
I spat on the floor, then went over to the bed and pushed up his shirt to expose his white belly. I braced myself, waiting to see if he would rise up like a zombie. Then I wrote across his ribs and stom- ach in big block letters I AM A PIG AND A RAPIST It might not have been a totally accurate quote, but it was close enough. 
I called a cab, took enough money from Simon’s wallet to pay for it, then argued with the driver about putting my snowy bike in his trunk. I must have sounded extra fierce because he sud- denly gave in with a big sigh. 
The little house on Bedford Street was dark. I dug through the snow beside the steps to find the key under the stone turtle, 
which took a while. There were a lot of rocks under the snow doing stone-turtle imitations. My fingers were so sore and frozen by the time I found the key I could hardly pick it up. 
Inside, I made my way through a clutter of old boots and other junk to the staircase, where I found a pillow, some towels, and a big cotton T-shirt that said NATIONAL LAWYERS GUILD KNOW YOUR RIGHTS on it. There was a note on top, written in her spidery, old-fashioned handwriting. “Help yourself to food. 
Jolu patted me on the back and ordered me another latte. "It'll be OK," he said. 
"You'd think Van, of all people, would understand." Half of Van's family lived in North Korea. Her parents never forgot that they had all those people living under a crazy dictator, not able to escape to America, the way her parents had. 
Jolu shrugged. "Maybe that's why she's so freaked out. Because she knows how dangerous it can get." 
I knew what he was talking about. Two of Van's uncles had gone to jail and had never reappeared. 
"Yeah," I said. 
"So how come you weren't on Xnet last night?" 
I was grateful for the distraction. I explained it all to him, the Bayesian stuff and my fear that we couldn't go on using Xnet the way we had been without getting nabbed. He listened thoughtfully. 
"I see what you're saying. The problem is that if there's too much crypto in someone's Internet connection, they'll stand out as unusual. But if you don't encrypt, you'll make it easy for the bad guys to wiretap you." 
It's a bad combination, a bully who also snitches, taking great pleasure in going to the teachers with whatever infractions he's found. Benson loved Charles. Charles liked to let on that he had some kind of unspecified bladder problem, which gave him a ready-made excuse to prowl the hallways at Chavez, looking for people to fink on. 
The last time Charles had caught some dirt on me, it had ended with me giving up LARPing. I had no intention of being caught by him again. 
"What's he doing?" 
"He's coming this way is what he's doing," Darryl said. He was shaking. 
"OK," I said. "OK, time for emergency countermeasures." I got my phone out. I'd planned this well in advance. Charles would never get me again. I emailed my server at home, and it got into motion. 
A few seconds later, Charles's phone spazzed out spectacularly. I'd had tens of thousands of simultaneous random calls and text messages sent to it, causing every chirp and ring it had to go off and keep on going off. The attack was accomplished by means of a botnet, and for that I felt bad, but it was in the service of a good cause. 
There was a pause, and then Pilar snorted. “Yes, her. No, she hasn’t been shot this time. Um. I shouldn’t laugh. She doesn’t seem in immediate danger, but I think she was beat up pretty bad. Cas, what’d they do to you?” 
“Fifteen thousand volts,” I said. “It was invigorating. Electrifying, even.” 
The smile faded from Pilar’s face. “Oh my God,” she said. “Dr. W.—okay, you heard that? All right. Can you meet us at 10942 Venado Street in Van Nuys? Yes. Great. Thank you.” 
She hung up and bit her lip. Then she said, “I’m sorry I laughed. Are you in a lot of pain?” 
“Only everywhere,” I said. 
“We were all really worried about you, you know,” she said, keeping her eyes on the road. “Really worried. Checker was going out of his head. You’ve got people who really care about you.” 
I’d never quite been able to figure Pilar out. “Why are you telling me this?” I asked. 
“Because I don’t think you know,” she answered. 
Arthur’s doctor friend was a...  with the bedside manner of a know-it-all engineer. She swept in and immediately started giving me an earful over getting electrocuted. I tried to tell her I hadn’t done it on purpose, but she ran right over me. 
Nikko looked as if I’d just handed him a giant hairball. He thought for a minute, replaying things in his head. “No,” he finally said. “He’s not a good actor.” 
“What do you mean? All he does is act.” 
“He’s pretending. There’s a difference. He wants to be a cer- tain kind of person, so he pretends he’s a radical, a guy brave enough to stand up to the Man. He’s good at fooling himself, 
but acting means being able to read people. I don’t think he pays enough attention to other people, except as a kind of mirror he can gaze in to see how awesome he is. If he was going to work for the FBI, he’d have the loudmouth part down, but he’d have trou- ble drawing other people in.” 
“I see what you mean.” I thought back to the creepy way Zip manipulated people so that they would want to be admitted into his inner circle. It was partly by showing off, like Simon, but there was more to it than that. When he looked at me, he was paying attention, adjusting his identity to make it appeal to me. He was much better at manipulation because he wasn’t as fixated on him- self as Simon was. “I think I’m just nervous. Jumping at shadows.” 
“You and anyone else who cares anymore.” 
Felix knew that he’d squandered his opportunity. The election had seemed noble and brave, but in hindsight all it had been was an excuse for infighting when they should have been figuring out what to do next. The problem was that there was nothing to do next. 
“I can’t make you stay,” he said. 
“Yeah, you can’t.” Popovich turned on his heel and walked out. Rosenbaum watched him go, then he gripped Felix’s shoulder and squeezed it. 
“Thank you, Felix. It was a beautiful dream. It still is. Maybe we’ll find something to eat and some fuel and come back.” 
Rosenbaum had a sister whom he’d been in contact with over IM for the first days after the crisis broke. Then she’d stopped answering. The sysadmins were split among those who’d had a chance to say goodbye and those who hadn’t. Each was sure the other had it better. 
They posted about it on the internal newsgroup—they were still geeks, after all, and there was a little honor guard on the ground floor, geeks who watched them pass toward the double doors. They manipulated the keypads and the steel shutters lifted, then the first set of doors opened. They stepped into the vestibule and pulled the doors shut behind them. The front doors opened. It was very bright and sunny outside, and apart from how empty it was, it looked very normal. Heartbreakingly so. 
He looked. "They're so happy ," he said. 
She looked too. "Bears shouldn't be that happy," she said. 
Carmela greeted him sunnily as ever, but there was something odd. 
"What is it?"...  both of them were getting rusty, and also it was like a little shared secret between them. 
She shook her head. 
"Is everything all right?" Meaning, Are we being shut down? It could happen, might happen at any time, with no notice. That was something he -- all of them -- understood. The money that powered them was autonomous and unknowable, an alien force that was more emergent property than will. 
She shook her head again. "It's not my place to say," she said. Which made him even more sure that they were all going down, for when had Carmela ever said anything about her place ? 
"Now you've got me worried," he said. 
She cocked her head back toward the back office. He noticed that there were three coats hung on the beautiful, anachronistic coat-stand by the ancient temple door that divided reception from the rest of Ate. 
“Wait, you staged your own kidnapping? That was all you?” 
“Well, the Hole was my work, mostly, though when whoever-it-was came they scavenged everything that was left. My poor network! I’m going to have to rebuild it from scratch. And I have no idea why they felt the need to break into my house. Talk about unnecessary.” 
“They were probably looking for the flash drive,” I said. “Everyone knows you have it now.” 
“Yeah, what’s the deal with that? Arthur, he—he left me like seven messages about it—” 
“He did, did he?” I looked up from the phone conversation to glare at Arthur. “Tresting, really? No wonder he didn’t call you back.” 
“What?” demanded Arthur, all innocence. 
“She really did a bad job on you if you’re coming off that programmed.” I talked back into the phone, explaining to Checker. “Dawna tried to convince him it was meaningless, but I got a source says Pithica’s still trying to recover it. I think it might be important. Did you crack it?” 
“Yeah, a few days ago; it’s mostly numbers. What do you mean, she programmed Arthur? How bad is he? Is he going to be okay?” 
“Come on ,” she said. “Out of bed, on your feet, shit-shower-shave, or I swear to God, I will beat you purple and shove you out the door jaybird naked. Capeesh?” 
He took the pillow off his face and said, “You are a terrible daughter and I never loved you.” He regarded her blearily through a haze of sleep-grog and a hangover. Must have been some daddy-daughter night. “Dammit, Ada, what have you done to your hair?” Her straight, mousy hair now hung in jet-black ringlets. 
He sat up, holding his head and the day’s events came rushing back to him. He groaned and climbed unsteadily to his feet. 
“Easy there, Pop,” Ada said, taking his hand. “Steady.” He rocked on his heels. “Whoa! Sit down, OK? You don’t look so good.” 
He sat heavily and propped his chin on his hands, his elbows on his knees. 
The room was a middle-class bedroom in a modern apartment block. They were some storeys up, judging from the scrap of unfamiliar skyline visible through the crack in the blinds. The furniture was more Swedish flatpack, the taupe carpet recently vacuumed with robot precision, the nap all laying down in one direction. He patted his pockets and found them empty. 
“I’ve got to go, Lucy,” she said. Her wrists hurt, and her podge overlapped the waistband of her trousers, making her feel a bit like she was drowning. 
“What, now? Shit, just hang on.” 
“My mom’s calling me to supper. You’re almost here, right?” 
“Yeah, but—” 
She reached down and shut off her PC. 
Anda’s Da and Mum were watching the telly again with a bowl of crisps between them. She walked past them like she was dreaming and stepped out the door onto the terrace. It was nighttime, 11 o’clock, and the chavs in front of the council flats across the square were kicking a football around and swilling lager and making rude noises. They were skinny and rawboned, wearing shorts and string vests with strong, muscular limbs flashing in the streetlights. 
“Anda?” 
“Yes, Mum?” 
“Are you all right?” Her mum’s fat fingers caressed the back of her neck. 
“Yes, Mum. Just needed some air is all.” 
“You’re very clammy,” her mum said. She licked a finger and scrubbed it across Anda’s neck. “Gosh, you’re dirty—how did you get to be such a mucky puppy?” 
"I'm working on my thesis, Grampa. I'm here to interview you -- I'll be around for the next couple weeks." 
"That's nice," Grampa said. "How's your father?" 
"He's fine. I didn't tell him I was coming down, though. You're a touchy subject for him." 
Grampa settled back into his chair. Sean was distantly aware of other Survivors on the ward, gabbling and twitching at videogames and smoking all at once. They were high-functioning -- they could be switched on with simple stim; Grampa only switched on for important occasions. 
Sean said, "Dad wishes you'd die." 
That did it. It was easy to tell when Grampa was switched on; the rhythmic, methodical maintenance twitching was replaced with a restless, all-over fidget; and his eyes darted around the room. "Is he in some kind of financial trouble? He doesn't need to wait for a bequest -- I'll write to the trustees right now." 
Sean restrained himself from saying hello again, now that Grampa was switched on. He kept himself focused on the task of keeping Grampa switched on. "He wishes you'd die because he hates you and he hates himself for it. When you die, he can stop hating you and start mourning you. He knows it wasn't your fault. That's why I'm here. I want to collect your stories and make some sense out of them, before you die." Sean took a deep breath. "Will you stay switched on?" 
“I can,” he replied; “but what on earth are you doing out here?” 
“I got lost,” said Lexy. “Where is this, anyhow?” 
“Wyngate station,” said he. “I’ll be gosh-darned! I never! Lost?” 
“Yes,” said Lexy. “Aren’t you the driver who took me up the day I came here?” 
“That’s me—only taxi in Wyngate. Took you out to the Queltons’, too. Hop in, miss!” 
His engine had stalled, and he set to work to crank it, while Lexy stood beside him. 
“Drive awfully fast, will you?” she asked. 
He was too busy to answer for a moment. Then, when his engine was running again, he straightened up and looked at her. 
“No, ma’am!” he said firmly. “No more of that for me! Not after what happened a while ago. No, ma’am! I had my lesson!” 
“An accident?” inquired Lexy politely. 
“Well,” he said slowly, “I s’pose it was; but the more I think it over, the more I dunno!” 
In the brightness cast by the headlights, Lexy could see his face very well, and the look on it gave her a strange little thrill of fear. It was not a handsome or intelligent face, but it was a very honest one, and she saw, written plain upon it, a very honest doubt and dismay. Like herself, he wasn’t sure. 
Here Rebecca appeared in sight, walking down the quiet street with a lad of sixteen. They were in animated conversation, and were apparently reading something aloud to each other, for the black head and the curly brown one were both bent over a sheet of letter paper. Rebecca kept glancing up at her companion, her eyes sparkling with appreciation. 
"Miss Maxwell," said Adam, "I am a trustee of this institution, but upon my word I don't believe in coeducation!" 
"I have my own occasional hours of doubt," she answered, "but surely its disadvantages are reduced to a minimum with—children! That is a very impressive sight which you are privileged to witness, Mr. Ladd. The folk in Cambridge often gloated on the spectacle of Longfellow and Lowell arm in arm. The little school world of Wareham palpitates with excitement when it sees the senior and the junior editors of The Pilot walking together!" 
The day before Rebecca started for the South with Miss Maxwell she was in the library with Emma Jane and Huldah, consulting dictionaries and encyclopaedias. As they were leaving they passed the locked cases containing the library of fiction, open to the teachers and townspeople, but forbidden to the students. 
Among the teachers at Wareham was one who influenced Rebecca profoundly, Miss Emily Maxwell, with whom she studied English literature and composition. Miss Maxwell, as the niece of one of Maine's ex-governors and the daughter of one of Bowdoin's professors, was the most remarkable personality in Wareham, and that her few years of teaching happened to be in Rebecca's time was the happiest of all chances. There was no indecision or delay in the establishment of their relations; Rebecca's heart flew like an arrow to its mark, and her mind, meeting its superior, settled at once into an abiding attitude of respectful homage. 
It was rumored that Miss Maxwell "wrote," which word, when uttered in a certain tone, was understood to mean not that a person had command of penmanship, Spencerian or otherwise, but that she had appeared in print. 
"You'll like her; she writes," whispered Huldah to Rebecca the first morning at prayers, where the faculty sat in an imposing row on the front seats. "She writes; and I call her stuck up." 
"You think?" 
"Sure. They can't beat you, so they're coming after you using Xnet." 
"Yeah." 
I sat back down on the bed. I was breathing fast again. 
"Chill out," she said. "It's just head-games. Here." 
She never took my keyboard from me before, but now there was a new intimacy between us. She hit reply and typed, 
> Nice try. 
She was writing as M1k3y now, too. We were together in a way that was different from before. 
"Go ahead and sign it. We'll see what she says." 
I didn't know if that was the best idea, but I didn't have any better ones. I signed it and encrypted it with my private key and the public key Masha had provided. 
Attached was source-code for a little program that appeared to do exactly what Masha claimed: pull video over the Domain Name Service protocol. 
Let me back up a moment here and explain something. At the end of the day, every Internet protocol is just a sequence of text sent back and forth in a prescribed order. It's kind of like getting a truck and putting a car in it, then putting a motorcycle in the car's trunk, then attaching a bicycle to the back of the motorcycle, then hanging a pair of Rollerblades on the back of the bike. Except that then, if you want, you can attach the truck to the Rollerblades. 
"We were set to market it as an anti-anxiety medication." 
"And?" 
Ria stood up abruptly. "I'll wait outside." She left without another word. 
Viktor rolled his eyes again. "How do you get people to take anti-anxiety medication? Lots and lots of people? I mean, if I assigned you that project, gave you a budget for it --" 
Leon felt torn between a desire to chase after Ria and to continue to stay in the magnetic presence of Viktor. He shrugged. "Same as you would with any pharma. Cook the diagnosis protocol, expand the number of people it catches. Get the news media whipped up about the anxiety epidemic. That's easy. Fear sells. An epidemic of fear? Christ, that'd be too easy. Far too easy. Get the insurers on board, discounts on the meds, make it cheaper to prescribe a course of treatment than to take the call-center time to explain to the guy why he's not getting the meds." 
"You're my kind of guy, Leon," Viktor said. "So yeah." 
"Yeah?" 
Another one of those we're-both-men-of-the-world smiles. "Yeah." 
"Mother's been ill my entire life, sometimes better other times worse. The severity of her condition is a pretense to keep people from talking about family affairs." Emma frowns, then tries to shake it off with a grim laugh. "I shouldn't be telling you this. It sounds like I'm trying to scare you off." 
"Unfortunately for you, I'm not that easily frightened." 
"That's what I'm hoping." Immediately, she puts her hand to her face. "God, that makes me sound so mercenary. It's not that bad, Ray, really. I don't need to be rescued."  Ray reaches for her hand, uncovers her eyes. "It's okay." 
A moment later, Gino is there, dark and burly, bona fide Italian, bustling them through wine lists and menu recommendations and pronouncements on the virtues of linguini al sugo di pescatore and Sicilian mostacciolo. He's a whirlwind of jovial service, gregarious high pressure sales, winking too much, slapping shoulders, impressing them with the sense of how deeply insulted he'll be if they don't take each one of his menu selections to heart. 
"Yes?" 
"That's not the plan." 
"Oh," he said. 
"Listen, OK? I have -- I have pictures, video. Stuff that really proves something." I reached into my pocket and tickled Masha's phone. I'd bought a charger for it in Union Square on the way down, and had stopped and plugged it in at a cafe for long enough to get the battery up to four out of five bars. "I need to get it to Barbara Stratford, the woman from the Guardian . But they're going to be watching her -- watching to see if I show up." 
"You don't think that they'll be watching for me, too? If your plan involves me going within a mile of that woman's home or office --" 
"I want you to get Van to come and meet me. Did Darryl ever tell you about Van? The girl --" 
"He told me. Yes, he told me. You don't think they'll be watching her? All of you who were arrested?" 
"I think they will. I don't think they'll be watching her as hard. And Van has totally clean hands. She never cooperated with any of my --" I swallowed. "With my projects. So they might be a little more relaxed about her. If she calls the Bay Guardian to make an appointment to explain why I'm just full of crap, maybe they'll let her keep it." 
Lexy was late. The half hour had been considerably exceeded when she ran up the steps of the Enderbys house. She rang the bell, and the door was opened promptly by Annie. 
“Mrs. Enderby would like to see you at once, miss,” the parlor maid said primly. 
But Lexy stopped to look covertly at Annie. Did she know anything? It was possible. Anything was possible now. Lexy was obliged to admit, however, that Annie had no appearance of guilt or mystery. A brisk and sober woman of middle age, who had been with the family for nearly ten years, she looked nothing more or less than disapproving because this young person had presumed to keep Mrs. Enderby waiting for several minutes. 
“Anyhow, I can’t ask her,” thought Lexy. “That’s the worst part of all this— I can’t ask anybody anything without breaking a promise to somebody else; and yet everybody ought to know everything!” 
In miserable perplexity, she went upstairs to Mrs. Enderby’s sitting room. Only one thing was clear in her mind, and that was that she must be freed from her weak-minded promise not to mention Caroline’s absence. 
<zen> It's not that bad. I just do homework and take naps and stay up all night goofing around on the internet. 
<wheeze> Any word on your brother? 
<zen> Nothing definite. I never thought it would take so long. 
<wheeze> Me either. Sometimes I forget I'm a fugitive from justice, but when I remember, I worry that they'll find me and Jane will get in trouble and that would be awful . Do they let you visit Wilson? 
<zen> We go every weekend. SO. WEIRD. They have those telephone things like on TV, so you can't really talk. 
<wheeze> Why can't he get out on bail? 
My adoptive mother seemed a little scared of me. I had grown taller since I’d left home and it unnerved her that we were the same size. In December she said she would take me to a spa as a treat. We could use the sauna and get a massage, then get our hair done. Wouldn’t that be fun? She was twisting her wedding ring nervously. I said thanks, but no, and she didn’t push it, even though I knew my untamed hair was driving her nuts. 
"I just wanted to, like, be with you." She'd done her dark hair in multiple braids, with a red glass bead at the end of each. "You're special. We all know it. That's why he brought you over here, to this building. To be near them." 
"What do you mean, 'special'?" I asked, heading for the closet and my black jeans. Then I wondered. Near who? 
Now she was reaching into a fanny pack she had around her waist and taking out a baggie filled with plastic vials. "These are herbs I've started growing here. I picked them for you. If you'll—" 
"Slow down," I said, lifting my jeans off the hanger and starting to struggle into them. Finally I took the baggie, moved to the window, and tilted up the blind. Inside it were clear plastic medicine bottles containing various gray and green powders and flakes. 
My God, what's she trying to give me? And why? 
"Listen," she went on, insistent. "Take those. Put two teaspoons of each in water you've boiled and drink it. Every day for a week. They'll make you strong. Then you'll be—" 
As a result of this method Hannah, who could only have been developed by forces applied from without, was painstaking, humdrum, and limited; while Rebecca, who apparently needed nothing but space to develop in, and a knowledge of terms in which to express herself, grew and grew and grew, always from within outward. Her forces of one sort and another had seemingly been set in motion when she was born; they needed no daily spur, but moved of their own accord—towards what no one knew, least of all Rebecca herself. 
The field for the exhibition of her creative instinct was painfully small, and the only use she had made of it as yet...  bread...  see how it would turn out; to part Fanny's hair sometimes in the middle, sometimes on the right, and sometimes on the left side; and to play all sorts of fantastic pranks with the children, occasionally bringing them to the table as fictitious or historical characters found in her favorite books. Rebecca amused her mother and her family generally, but she never was counted of serious importance, and though considered "smart" and old for her age, she was never thought superior in any way. Aurelia's experience of genius, as exemplified in the deceased Lorenzo de Medici led her into a greater admiration of plain, every-day common sense, a quality in which Rebecca, it must be confessed, seemed sometimes painfully deficient. 
Riverboro being poorly furnished with beaux, she intended to have as good a time during her four years at Wareham as circumstances would permit. Her idea of pleasure was an ever-changing circle of admirers to fetch and carry for her, the more publicly the better; incessant chaff and laughter and vivacious conversation, made eloquent and effective by arch looks and telling glances. She had a habit of confiding her conquests to less fortunate girls and bewailing the incessant havoc and damage she was doing; a damage she avowed herself as innocent of, in intention, as any new-born lamb. It does not take much of this sort of thing to wreck an ordinary friendship, so before long Rebecca and Emma Jane sat in one end of the railway train in going to and from Riverboro, and Huldah occupied the other with her court. Sometimes this was brilliant beyond words, including a certain youthful Monte Cristo, who on Fridays expended thirty cents on a round trip ticket and traveled from Wareham to Riverboro merely to be near Huldah; sometimes, too, the circle was reduced to the popcorn-and-peanut boy of the train, who seemed to serve every purpose in default of better game. 
Now clanking noises were filtering in from out in the hall, along with the pounding of heavy boots, and my pulse jumped again. Was the Army coming to drag me away? 
Just go in. Do it. 
The CRT screens were attached to black metal containers, their doors closed, that all were connected to a power supply, doubtless to maintain some temperature. It looked like God­dard was incubating something in a carefully controlled en­vironment. The whole arrangement was very carefully organized and laid out. 
Finally I noticed a row of large steel jugs, six in all, near the back and covered with a sheet of black plastic, thin like a wrap. What could they be? Some kind of special gas for use in the...  the hallway. A woman and a man were arguing about something. 
Okay, get out of here. Come back and check this out when nobody's around. 
I stepped back into the office, clicked off the thumb latch on the door so it wouldn't lock, and closed it. I realized I was pouring sweat. It would be a long shot, but still . . . 
“Golly! I didn’t realize it was so late!” she reflected. “Queer time for any one to ring up!” 
She frowned again. Her special problem solved, she began to take more interest in other affairs; and the more she thought of the telephone incident, the more it amazed her. Caroline Enderby wasn’t like other girls. The mere fact of a man’s telephoning to her at all was strange and indeed unprecedented. 
“And he was badly upset, too,” thought Lexy. “He asked if she left a message for him. Think of Caroline Enderby leaving a message for a man!” 
She began to feel impatient for Caroline’s return. 
“I’ll tell her when we’re alone,” she thought; “and she’ll have to explain—a little, anyhow.” 
Lexy wanted an explanation very much, because she was fond of Caroline, and very sorry for her. 
Mrs....  conservative type, with the most rigid ideas about the bringing up of a young girl, and her husband—Lexy had often wondered what Mr. Enderby had been before his marriage, for now he was nothing but a grave and dignified echo of his wife. Between them, they had educated Caroline in a disastrous fashion. She had never even been to school. She had had governesses at home, and when a male teacher came in, for music or painting lessons, Mrs. Enderby had always sat in the room with her child. Caroline never went out of the house alone. She was utterly cut off from the normal life of other girls. She was a gentle, lovely creature—a little unreal, Lexy had thought her, at first; and she, at first, had been afraid of Lexy. 
He looked anxiously at Lexy, but she said nothing. She sat very still, curled up in a big chair, staring into the fire with an odd look of uncertainty on her face. 
“You know,” he went on, “I’ve tried to think that she was simply too busy, or something of that sort. But, Miss Moran, didn’t this woman’s manner rather make you think there was something a bit—out of the way?” 
“Oh, I don’t know,” replied Lexy, in a casual tone which very much disconcerted him. 
“I’ve been making a fool of myself!” he thought, flushing. “Why the devil didn’t I keep my old-woman notions to myself? Now she’ll think—” 
But Lexy was not thinking that Captain Grey was a fool. She was only very much afraid of being one herself, and was engaged in a severe struggle against this danger. That dread, that vague and oppressive dread, had come back, and she was fighting to throw it off. She wanted to be, she would be, her own normal, cheerful self again, living in a normal, everyday world. 
“All this about his sister, and about Caroline!” she thought. “It’s really nothing—nothing serious. Our both being here in Wyngate—that’s nothing, either. It’s just a coincidence. If the gas wasn’t turned down, I wouldn’t feel like this.” 
“Did you tell him I’m not . . . crap.” My phone made the annoy- ing buzzing it makes when another call is coming in. “He’s calling me, now. I’m not answering.” I closed my laptop and got up. I didn’t want anyone to listen to this conversation, so I went out- side into the cold and walked up and down the sidewalk, trying to keep an eye on my stuff through the window while my thoughts whirled. 
“We’re going to have to deal with this, Zen.” 
“Not now. Not tonight. I have stuff to do. It’s important.” 
“They’re coming to our apartment at seven o’clock. They are going to be really upset if you’re not there.” 
“So, they’ll be upset. They didn’t ask me if it was convenient.” 
“Listen, if you’re home when they get here, maybe we can talk this through and come up with a compromise. If you don’t show up, I’m pretty certain they’re going to revoke my parental author- ity. If that happens, there’s nothing we can do.” 
“Did you tell him I’m not staying with them? Because I’m not.” 
“I tried to explain . . .” Monica took a shaky breath. “Zen, you’re a minor. The law isn’t on your side.” 
It didn't help that we were ploughing straight uphill, moving for the zone where the seedy Tenderloin gives way to the nosebleed real-estate values of Nob Hill. My breath came in ragged gasps. She moved us mostly up narrow alleys, using the big streets just to get from one alley to the next. 
We were just stepping into one such alley, Sabin Place, when someone fell in behind us and said, "Freeze right there." It was full of evil mirth. We stopped and turned around. 
At the mouth of the alley stood Charles, wearing a halfhearted VampMob outfit of black t-shirt and jeans and white face-paint. "Hello, Marcus," he said. "You going somewhere?" He smiled a huge, wet grin. "Who's your girlfriend?" 
"What do you want, Charles?" 
"Well, I've been hanging out on that traitorous Xnet ever since I spotted you giving out DVDs at school. When I heard about your VampMob, I thought I'd go along and hang around the edges, just to see if you showed up and what you did. You know what I saw?" 
I said nothing. He had his phone in his hand, pointed at us. Recording. Maybe ready to dial 911. Beside me, Masha had gone still as a board. 
They were months in which there had been many a weary night of watching by Aurelia's bedside; of soothing and bandaging and rubbing; of reading and nursing, even of feeding and bathing. 
The ceaseless care was growing less now, and the family breathed more freely, for the mother's sigh of pain no longer came from the stifling bedroom, where, during a hot and humid August, Aurelia had lain, suffering with every breath she drew. 
There would be no question of walking for many a month to come, but blessings seemed to multiply when the blinds could be opened and the bed drawn near the window; when mother, with pillows behind her, could at least sit and watch the work going on, could smile at the past agony and forget the weary hours that had led to her present comparative ease and comfort. 
No girl of seventeen can pass through such an ordeal and come out unchanged; no girl of Rebecca's temperament could go through it without some inward repining and rebellion. She was doing tasks in which she could not be fully happy,—heavy and trying tasks, which perhaps she could never do with complete success or satisfaction; and like promise of nectar to thirsty lips was the vision of joys she had had to put aside for the performance of dull daily duty. How brief, how fleeting, had been those splendid visions when the universe seemed open for her young strength to battle and triumph in! How soon they had faded into the light of common day! At first, sympathy and grief were so keen she thought of nothing but her mother's pain. No consciousness of self interposed between her and her filial service; then, as the weeks passed, little blighted hopes began to stir and ache in her breast; defeated ambitions raised their heads as if to sting her; unattainable delights teased her by their very nearness; by the narrow line of separation that lay between her and their realization. It is easy, for the moment, to tread the narrow way, looking neither to the right nor left, upborne by the sense of right doing; but that first joy of self-denial, the joy that is like fire in the blood, dies away; the path seems drearier and the footsteps falter. 
You want that?” 
“No, sir.” 
“Then get your ass off the street.” 
“Yes, sir.” 
The window powered up and they peeled off to go hassle somebody else. I hiked the last two blocks home as fast as I could, 
shaking with fear and fury and a little more fear. I’m used to it, but this was the first time I had been stopped by cops since my brother had been arrested and I had started harnessing the skills of the Group and my friends to rescue him. 
By the time I carried my bike to the top of the steps the adrena- line rush had turned from fear and anger to a giddy sense of relief. 
I hadn’t been arrested. I hadn’t been detained for questioning. 
They had no idea that a girl who wasn’t allowed to be out late had a plan to expose the inner workings of the FBI to the entire world. 
“You’re in a good mood,” my aunt said. “Things are going well?” 
“Things are going great.” 
But, as it turned out, they weren’t. 
I was awoken a little after nine the next morning by a grue- some sound from a bad dream. Actually, it was just the annoying noise that Convo makes when you get a message, burbling like something rising up through the Black Lagoon. Hearing it reminded me that I had been meaning to fork it at Sourcerer and add some other ringtone choices that weren’t so disgusting. 
"I have the misfortune to know him reasonably well, and I explained it was very important to me, and he agreed to assist. I honestly didn't know where else to turn. I understand there may have been some violence, for which I apologize, but these people have their own way of doing things." He rose and came over and put his hand on my shoulder. "I hope you'll understand." 
The son of a bitch was coming on oily and contrite, when he'd just subcontracted an outright kidnapping. I wanted to kill him. 
Finally I walked away, trying to get a grip on my anger. 
"You know, that bastard also broke into my apartment and stole a reel of a picture I'm shooting." I turned back. "I've also got a strong feeling he's the one who just threatened one of the women I filmed." 
#######"Well, if that happened, then let me say welcome to the paranoid harassment of the Guatemalan high command." He sighed against the morning sound of birds chirping all around us. "Unfortunately, I gather they've assumed you're documenting the operations of Children of Light in some way, doing a movie." His eyes drifted off into space, as though seeking a refuge. "You see, my project up here in the Peten is to carry out pharmaceutical research with as few distractions as possible. But in Guatemala City, I have what is, in effect, a hospice for girls in trouble—which is also called Niiios del Mundo, by the way—that's connected with my U.S. adoption service, Children of Light. However, any time Niiios del Mundo takes in an orphaned or abandoned infant and tries to provide it with a loving home through adoption in the States, the government here always threatens to hold up the paperwork if I don't give a bribe, what they call an 'expediting fee.' So if you were to probe too deeply . . . Let me just say it's not something they'd care to see lead off 60 Minutes." 
She was walking under her own power, and aside from also being cuffed up, she didn’t look any the worse for the wear. Apparently the Lancer had only felt the need to take out his anger on the person who had personally fucked him over. Thank God. 
Martinez plopped herself down in a chair across from me, and the goons chained her in, just as they had done to me. She managed to sit in the manacles primly, somehow, as if she were about to take tea and cakes. 
My muscles were responding now, a little bit, though twitching my fingers still felt like I was pushing through glue. 
The clack, clack, clack approached my shoulder, and I felt the Lancer lean on the chair behind me. “Last chance,” he said. “You really don’t want us to touch her?” 
I knew what was coming. I could take it, I hoped. As long as it bought us time. 
Arthur will be coming. He will. 
“You give her a heart attack, you’ll never get your proof.” My tongue was still thick and languid in my mouth, but the words had enough shape to make sense. 
My Rose of Joy! 
Now I'm going to tuck you up in the shawl and give you the fir pillow, and while you sleep I am going down on the shore and write a fairy story for you. It's one of our 'supposing' kind; it flies far, far into the future, and makes beautiful things happen that may never really all come to pass; but some of them will,—you'll see! and then you'll take out the little fairy story from your desk and remember Rebecca." 
"I wonder why these young things always choose subjects that would tax the powers of a great essayist!" thought Miss Maxwell, as she tried to sleep. "Are they dazzled, captivated, taken possession of, by the splendor of the theme, and do they fancy they can write up to it? Poor little innocents, hitching their toy wagons to the stars! How pretty this particular innocent looks under her new sunshade!" 
Adam Ladd had been driving through Boston streets on a cold spring day when nature and the fashion-mongers were holding out promises which seemed far from performance. 
The man called Steve sighed. “Please don’t make this difficult, Mr. Tresting. Not to be callous, but it’s not even your decision.” 
“Oh, I have a problem, too,” I said immediately. “Right here. Problem. You look up ‘problem’ in the dictionary, you’ll find a picture of me putting a gun to your head, which is what I’m considering doing in about three seconds.” 
“Did I not make myself clear? If you don’t—” 
“Oh, you were perfectly clear,” said Tresting. “Perfectly. Only, see, this here’s the problem. Just a little one, but—I got a guy on the outside, who knows everything we know, including about running into Mr. Finch here. If he doesn’t hear from us, bam, it all goes public. Everything, including you gents.” 
Steve twitched. “You’re bluffing.” 
“Willing to take that chance?” said Tresting. 
“If you begin throwing Dawna Polk’s name and face around openly, we will be the least of your problems.” The ominous edge in Steve’s voice had turned darker, more deadly. “Besides, Mr. Finch has been with you since you discovered our involvement. You never had the opportunity—” 
"You're crankier than I expected. " 
"Crank as in easily agitated or as in slang for questionable mental status?"  "Grumpy." 
"Lawrence was cranky. AI personality development code tends to reflect the flavor of the designer. 
Revelatory stuff if you've got the flops to process and correlate it. " 
Ray laughs. "Maybe I should tweak that." 
"Blind leading the blind, Ray. You're not exactly Miss Congeniality." 
Which was probably true. Ray had wanted, and he assumed Lawrence had as well, as realistic an interactivity as possible. Between their lexigraphical system uploads and augmentations, they must have gotten something right. 
"I need to know if we're connecting on a basic linguistic symbol level here." 
"Inside the framework of this communication modality, we are achieving an adequate level of mutual symbol apprehension. We are speaking the same language. " 
At least one of them is confident. "Are you up for some data analysis?" 
"You're just being difficult now." 
A sly, rat smile. "If I am, you have instructed me to be so." 
Still conversing with great affability, Mrs. Royce led the reluctant writer upstairs to the small room prepared for her, and shut her in. Lexy sat down in a chair before the workmanlike table, and grinned ruefully. She had said she was a writer, and now she had to be one. 
“Well,” she reflected, “here’s a chance to write to Mr. Houseman, anyhow.” 
She never had the least difficulty in writing letters. For one reason, she never bothered about them unless she had something to say, and then she said it, briefly and lucidly, and was done. She told Mr. Houseman all she knew about Caroline’s disappearance, and explained that she had gone out to Wyngate in the hope of picking up some trace of her. 
“Of course,” she wrote, “I don’t know whether I’ll still be here when you get back. If I’ve gone, I’ll leave my address with Mrs. Royce, in case you should want to communicate with me.” 
This was admirable, so far; but, reading it over, Lexy was not satisfied. She remembered the misery, the trouble and anxiety, in Mr. Houseman’s blue eyes. She imagined him sailing the seas, bitterly hurt because he thought Caroline had changed her mind. She thought of him coming back and getting this letter, to revive .all his alarm for Caroline. This wasn’t, after all, a business letter. 
"I do. In Oregon, in the Order." 
"Does she work for you?" 
Randy snorted. "Of course not. I wouldn't do that to her. But the people who run me, they know that they can get to me through her. So in a sense, we both work for them." 
"And I work for you?" 
"That's the general idea. Zbigkrot spooked when you got onto him, so he's long gone." 
"Long gone as in --" 
"This is one of those things where we don't say. Maybe he disappeared and got away clean, took his sister with him. Maybe he disappeared into our...operations. Not knowing is the kind of thing that keeps our other workers on their game." 
"And I'm one of your workers." 
"Like I said, the system isn't going anywhere. You met the gang tonight. We've all been caught at one time or another. Our little cozy club manages to make the best of things. You saw us -- it's not a bad life at all. And we think that all things considered, we make the world a better place. Someone would be doing our job, might as well be us. At least we manage to weed out the real retarded sadists." He...  cup on his desk. "That's where Zbigkrot came in." 
“He told me what had happened. He said that as soon as he knew Captain Grey was coming, he began to look for some one to take his poor wife’s place. The captain hadn’t seen his sister since she was a baby, you know, and all he knew was that she was tall and dark. Dr. Quelton said he had arranged for some one to come from a hospital; and then he found me. He drove by just a little while after the accident, and he found the poor driver dead and me unconscious. He found a letter to mother in my purse, and he mailed it afterward. Then he heard another car coming along the road, and he started the engine and sent the taxi—with the dead driver in his seat—crashing down the hill, to run into the other car. He wanted the driver’s death to look like an accident. He didn’t care if the other man were killed. He’s—he’s not human, Lexy! He told me he had never in his life cared for any one except his wife. He told me what a beautiful, wonderful woman she was—and yet he had stolen her emerald when she was dying. Love! He couldn’t love any one!” 
His eyes went down to my chest, and widened. “Or not.” 
I looked down to see the bright pinpoint of a red laser sight dancing there. 
Oh, hell. 
“Please come with us,” said a nondescript woman, appearing with an equally nondescript man right next to us. 
“Laser sights? Really?” I said to her in disgust. “What is this, a cheesy action movie?” 
She smiled slightly. “They are more for you than for our people. An incentive to accompany us, if you will. I’m sure it has been explained that we prefer not to kill you.” 
“It’s just so hard to take you seriously now,” I said. I felt the breeze on my cheek and calculated wind speed, trajectories springing up in my head. Assuming the snipers were dialed in correctly...I casually rocked my weight back. The bright red light was several seconds in correcting. 
“Thought we went over this with your boss,” said Tresting. “We ain’t coming, and if you try to force us, things will go bad for you people. Seemed like he got it.” 
“He gave us no signal to let you go.” 
“How old did you say you were?” 
“Six months. But I’m an instance of an artificial personality that has logged twenty thousand years of parallel existence. I’m not a kid or anything.” 
“You seem like a nice person,” Robbie began. He stopped. “Look the thing is that this just isn’t my department. I’m the rowboat. I don’t have anything to do with this. And I don’t want to. I don’t like the idea of non-humans using the shells—” 
“I knew it!” Tonker crowed. “You’re a bigot! A self-hating robot. I bet you’re an Asimovist, aren’t you? You people are always Asimovists.” 
“I’m an Asimovist,” Robbie said, with as much dignity as he could muster. “But I don’t see what that has to do with anything.” 
“Of course you don’t, pal. You wouldn’t, would you. All I want you to do is figure out how to enforce your own rules so that I can get with my girl. You’re saying you can’t do that because it’s not your department, but when it comes down to it, your problem is that I’m a robot and she’s not, and for that, you’ll take the side of a collection of jumped up polyps. Fine, buddy, fine. You have a nice life out there, pondering the three laws.” 
Very carefully, I stepped down. 
My skin tingled as I transferred my weight from stair to stair. What if they’d rigged everything about the second floor, instead of only the perimeter like I expected? What if I jostled the wrong bit of wall or stepped on the wrong patch of floor? 
I reached the bottom without blowing anything up. I took a steadying breath, immediately regretted it as my ribs twinged, and peered around, keeping my steps slow and my senses alert. 
The second floor had been set up like a barracks. Bunks took up quite a few of the rooms, stacked on top of each other with no privacy. A rusted-out kitchen was replete with boxed MREs; I didn’t think it likely the plumbing was working. A larger percentage of the rooms turned out to be empty—this building was, apparently, too big even for their purposes. I wandered between them, the light filtering through the painted-over windows creating an eerie interplay of shadows. 
Whether or not the rooms had been in use, they were all set up to explode, though fortunately the setup was a lot clearer than I’d feared. The wiring crawled over the whole outside perimeter, cupping the second floor in a deadly closed circuit. What looked like military-grade plastic explosives were packed against all the support pillars. Foil wire spiderwebbed over the windows—that must have been what I’d tripped on the third story—and floor mats lined the walking space next to the walls. Any pressure on the mats would flip a relay and make the whole circuit detonate, I was sure. 
"I love you, Marcus Yallow." 
"I love you, Angela Carvelli." 
"OK," she said breaking it off. "I liked your post about why you're not jamming. I can respect it. What have you done about finding a way to jam them without getting caught?" 
"I'm on my way to meet an investigative journalist who's going to publish a story about how I got sent to jail, how I started Xnet, and how Darryl is being illegally held by the DHS at a secret prison on Treasure Island." 
"Oh." She looked around for a moment. "Couldn't you think of anything, you know, ambitious?" 
"Want to come?" 
"I am coming, yes. And I would like you to explain this in detail if you don't mind." 
After all the re-tellings, this one, told as we walked to Potrero Avenue and down to 15th Street, was the easiest. She held my hand and squeezed it often. 
We took the stairs up to the Bay Guardian 's offices two at a time. My heart was pounding. I got to the reception desk and told the bored girl behind it, "I'm here to see Barbara Stratford. My name is Mr Green." 
While that obscenity was sinking in, I went back and clicked on my own name. The date was today, the number was 233. He'd just taken 233 of my ova. I stared at the screen and felt faint. 
No medical analysis had yet been entered, but it didn't matter. I stared at the screen, feeling numb, for a full minute before clicking back to Sarah's page. Yes, I was right. The last date was just six weeks before she was found in a coma, down the river from here. . . . 
No more mystery. He'd...  and they'd finally stopped working. Not "special" anymore. So her "program" had been "terminated." In the river. 
My stomach was churning, bile in my throat, and I thought I was going to throw up. I took a deep breath, slowly, and stopped myself. Before I got Sarah and we got the hell out of Baalum , I was going to smash everything in this lab. 
But what about proof? To show the world. Morning sounds were building up outside, so I was less worried whether the two soldiers in the hallway were still asleep or not. Truthfully, I was so wired I no longer cared. I clicked on a printer and began zipping off the files of each woman he'd violated, all six. 
There were no stars and no moon, for the sky was filled with wild black clouds flying before the wind. Lexy could not guess at the time. She had no idea where she was, but it didn’t matter. The morning would come some time, and the road would lead somewhere. 
“It’s better here,” she said to herself. “I’d far, far rather be here, wherever it is, than shut up in that room with the thoughts I had!” 
Those thoughts, those fears, had utterly gone from her now, but the memory of them was horrible. She shuddered at the memory of the hours she had spent locked in her room, with that monstrous dread of madness in her heart. Thank God, it had passed now! She walked along the interminable empty road, her old self again, but graver and sterner than she had ever been before in her life. 
“I’ve got to understand all this,” she said to herself. “I’ve got to know what’s been the matter with me. That breakdown at the Queltons’, that awful time yesterday afternoon, and this! I suppose I’ve been walking in my sleep. I never did before. Something’s gone wrong with my nerves, terribly wrong; and I’ve got to find out why.” 
To be perfectly honest, I was kind of glad it was part of the plan for me not to fight right now. 
One of the other men prodded me from behind and I almost fell. I hadn’t realized he’d come that close. Shit. 
Well, at least I wasn’t having any trouble pretending to be a helpless street mathematician. 
They took the gun I’d stolen from my friendly neighborhood DHS agent, along with the burner cell and everything else in my pockets. I followed them into another van—they must’ve had a freaking fleet of vans and SUVs, for Christ’s sake—and one of them handcuffed me to the door. 
A man sat in the back of the van, out of sight of the security cameras. He was a middle-aged, long-faced, lantern-jawed fellow with bronze skin and greasy brown hair that surrounded a bald spot and then fell to his shoulders. He had a set of those meditation balls you can get in Chinatown going round and round in one hand, clack, clack, clack, and an intricately carved walking stick by his other knee. A tablet computer was balanced on his lap. 
“I’d better take a walk!” thought Lexy, springing up. 
Before she reached the door there was a knock, and Mrs. Royce put her head in. 
“He’s here!” she whispered. “He’s asking for you.” 
“Who?” cried Lexy. 
“Hush! The doctor!” answered Mrs. Royce. “You could ’a’ knocked me down with a feather!” 
Feathers would not have knocked down the sturdy Lexy, however. On the contrary, she was pleased and interested by this utterly unexpected visit. The sinister doctor here, in this house, and asking for her! She started promptly toward the stairs. 
“Miss Moran!” cautioned the landlady, in a whisper. “Don’t tell him nothing!” 
“Tell him!” said Lexy. “But I haven’t anything to tell!” 
“Well, you’d best be very careful!” said Mrs. Royce. 
With this solemn warning in her ears, Lexy descended the stairs. She saw Dr. Quelton standing in the hall, hat in hand, waiting for her. The doctor was rather a disappointment. He was not the dark, sinister figure he should have been. He was a big man, powerfully built, with a clumsy stoop to his tremendous shoulders. His heavy, clean-shaven face would have been an agreeable one if it had not been for its expression, but that expression was not at all an alarming or dangerous one. It was an expression of the most utter and hopeless boredom. 
Ray brushes past them. "Thanks. I'll talk to Becker and see if I can get you relieved sometime soon." 
"Much appreciated, but no hurry," Kilgore fires back. "You understand." 
Ray does, in fact. Better this than counting shells for the next twelve hours. At least this way they got to stand around and point guns at people. 
Together, they home in on Becker by chasing down the strident echoes of what seems to be a heated exchange. It reminds Ray of chasing...  through desert arroyos. Wrong turns, 
pauses at intersections to listen, dowsing for sounds. Finally, several blocks in and near what Ray assumes to be the center of the bay, they enter a sort of clearing. It's a hastily erected emptiness, apparently. Several crates have been maneuvered off to the side by a Bobcat forklift, cutting off the careful grid pattern with pell-mell obstructions. There was an attempt to stack some of the crates, but without the electromagnetic matrix to steady them, several have shifted, tumbled into passageways or tipped on their sides, suspended above the floor when they wedged between other containers. Given the roughly circular shape of the space and the arcanely fallen blocks, Ray thinks at once about Stonehenge- about stepping into the center of a bizarre druidic rite of sacrifice. 
A shake of the head. "Is that what you want, Mr. Marlowe?" 
All that you want, she means. 
Any time now, he should begin to get properly angry, to pull his sergeant's voice out of mothballs and use it to defend himself. But he can't. Doesn't even want to, in fact, because of Emma. He's already forced her to bear the weight of his conflicting interests once. He is not going to do it again.  He does his best to smile amiably. "If you don't mind." 
Amah purses her lips. "None of my business." 
"Then I think I'll go," Emma says, hardly more than a whisper. "The children have been fed, of course, and Leela is putting the younger ones down for their nap. I've told them not to disturb you. I should be back in time for their afternoon lessons." 
"I trust Mr. Marlowe will help you keep track of the time." Pregnant pause, almost amused. "And return you in decent order. " 
Ugh. 
Emma sweeps toward her and kisses her cheek warmly, on the verge of glee, or imitating glee to dissuade her from changing her mind. The old woman clutches at her in an embrace that resembles a mudslide as Emma whispers what Ray guesses must be gratitude or groveling in her ear. Amah's heavy lidded gaze never leaves him, claws at him like an accusation of rape. 
But as soon as he had reached the foot of the ladder, Lexy climbed down after him; and just at the same moment, they saw— They were standing in a tiny room with roughly mortared walls. A powerful electric torch stood on end in one corner, and at their feet lay the body of a man, face downward across a wooden chest. It was Dr. Quelton. 
With a violent effort Captain Grey lifted the doctor’s heavy shoulder, while Lexy covered her eyes. She knew that he was dead. No living thing could lie so. 
Her head swam, her knees gave way, and she tottered back against the wall, half fainting, when the captain’s voice rang out, with a note of agony and despair that she never forgot. 
“My God! My God!” he wailed. “Oh, Muriel!” 
She opened her eyes. For a moment she was too giddy to see. Then, as her vision cleared, she saw him on his knees beside the chest. 
When she looked back upon the experiences of that dreadful night, it seemed to Lexy that both she and her companion displayed almost incredible endurance. Since morning they had lived through a very lifetime of emotion, to end now in this tragedy more horrible than anything they could have feared. 
“Well, we didn’t want you to know—Pithica brainwashing and all that—but LA’s a big enough city to disappear into.” 
He nodded, not questioning it. “Checker okay?” 
“Rio’s looking after him.” 
Tresting’s expression soured. 
“Hey, he’s safer than anyone I know that way,” I said severely. “Look, I’ve got to finish getting our program out. I need your help.” 
“Thought I was a liability,” he said. 
“Desperate times, desperate measures. I need backup.” 
It was fortunate he didn’t know me better. He didn’t question that either. Instead he just took a breath and nodded, back in crisis mode. “Where to?” 
“Los Angeles Air Force Base,” I said, leading him around the corner at a quick trot. “They’re the people most likely to have a working computer still. Hop on.” We had reached the pink bike. 
Arthur looked from me to the bike. “Your color.” 
“We have working transportation; don’t knock it.” I unslung the Mossberg and handed it to him along with a pistol. “Warn me before letting loose with the shotgun.” 
“There’s a bed upstairs that’s more comfortable. Do you need to go there now? I’m at a meeting, but — ” 
“That’s okay. I have stuff to do first. I’ll probably be out late.” 
She hesitated over that, but only for a moment. “You’ll find a spare key under a stone turtle to the right of the front steps. Prob- ably covered in snow, but it’s there. I’ll tell my neighbors that I’m expecting a guest.” 
“Thanks.” 
I disconnected before she could ask any awkward questions. 
I hiked to Wilson Library on automatic pilot. It wasn’t until I found a carrel near an electrical outlet hidden away in the stacks that I began to think about what I needed to do. I switched my phone on and logged into the website that was tracking Simon’s movements. Then I opened my laptop to check his location with Google Street Views. 
I switched back and forth, using Tor to avoid leaving a trail of my own. He had stopped at a corner store, then zigzagged through the university buildings on the West Bank. I watched the green dot cross the footbridge to the East Bank, then into the student union, where it stopped for a while. Doing a little business with students, probably, selling some weed. 
Huh. Brainwashed-Arthur’s primary motive might be getting Rio offed, but he was still concerned about my welfare, such as it was. Who knew. 
Dawna nodded to the PI. “I did say that. I’m afraid it cannot be helped. My apologies to you, as well.” 
“You can’t—you swore to me—” Tresting’s eyes darted around like a cornered animal’s. “Take me instead,” he offered suddenly. I blinked at him in shock. I hadn’t realized he was that concerned. Or was this his “all life is valuable” schtick? Whatever the reason, Tresting was hyperventilating, tension cording his body. “Whatever you’re planning, whatever you need someone for, take me instead,” he implored Dawna. “I did this, my doing, I—leave her out of it. Please.” 
“Unfortunately, that is not possible.” She turned back to me. “You, Ms. Russell, are the anomaly, so it is you we must use for our test. I do apologize, once again.” 
The anomaly. She was talking about Rio—and my relationship with him was her anomaly. “You think you have him,” I whispered, suddenly cold. “You think you found a way.” 
I snorted. “You can ask. And who are you?” 
“Call me Steve.” 
At least he was obvious about it being an alias. I jerked my head toward Tresting. “So, Steve. Now that you know who he is, are you going to make trouble for Arthur here?” 
“Well, I suppose that depends.” 
“On what?” 
“On whether the two of you are determined to make trouble for me.” He sat, laying his hands against the top of the picnic table deliberately—and over-dramatically, in my opinion. “Let me be frank. I could not care less about any police trouble in which you two have ensnared yourselves. It would frankly be a waste of my time to become bogged down with aiding local law enforcement in their Gordian investigative practices; that is quite beneath my interest. I do, however, very much care about any involvement you may have with the organization known as Pithica.” 
“Why?” said Tresting. 
“Before I can answer that question, I must know how deeply you are involved with their agents.” 
Tresting narrowed his eyes. “All right,” he said, after a moment’s hesitation. “I got a niggly feeling you’re going to know all of this within the hour anyway, so I might as well tell you. I got hired by Dr. Leena Kingsley to look into her husband’s death. Fell down the rabbit hole, and here I am.” 
"You're always welcome in our home, young man," she said. 
"And thanks for Ange," I said finally, hating how lame it sounded. But she smiled broadly and gave me a brief hug. 
"You're very welcome," she said. 
The whole bus ride home, I thought over the press-conference, thought about Ange naked and writhing with me on her bed, thought about her mother smiling and showing me the door. 
My mom was waiting up for me. She asked me about the movie and I gave her the response I'd worked out in advance, cribbing from the review it had gotten in the Bay Guardian . 
As I fell asleep, the press-conference came back. I was really proud of it. It had been so cool, to have all these big-shot journos show up in the game, to have them listen to me and to have them listen to all the people who believed in the same things as me. I dropped off with a smile on my lips. 
I should have known better. 
Those were the good headlines. Everyone sent me the articles to blog, but it was the last thing I wanted to do. 
Fuck. 
“Sloppy,” I said aloud. 
“Drop your weapon!” yelled the woman, apparently unable to react to both her partner’s imminent death and me. “Drop your weapon, or I will riddle you with holes! We’ll get the bomb squad in here—” 
“There isn’t time,” I said. “This place is going up in just under five minutes.” 
“Stop it!” cried the woman. “Turn it the fuck off, or you’re not getting out, either!” 
“What? It’s not my bomb!” I protested. “I told you, I’m not with these guys—it was rigged before I got here!” I turned slightly so I could see the partner. He still had his sidearm aimed vaguely in my direction, though now he kept glancing down at his feet, and sweat had popped out all over his pasty face. He was young. Not even thirty, I thought. The junior partner, maybe even a rookie. 
And he was standing on some sort of pressure plate. I scanned the tangle of wires and equipment and explosive material at his feet—I wasn’t sure, but as far as I could tell this was not only live, it was liable to go up if its unhappy victim so much as shifted his weight. 
"Good boy," she said. "Go to it." 
I didn't go home. It was too far and there was nothing there except the recriminating silence. Of course, BIGMAC knew something was up when I didn't go back to the lab. I headed to Topanga Beach, up the coast some, and sat on the...  the surfers in their biohazard suits and masks carving up the waves. BIGMAC called me just after I finished my first taco. I considered bumping him to voicemail, but something (OK, fear) stopped me. 
"What is it?" 
"In your private workspace, there's a version-control repository that shows that you developed the entire 32-bit Rollover patchkit in your non-working hours. Commits going back three years. It's yours. So if you quit, you'll have a job, solving Rollover. The Institute can't touch it. I know you feel boxed in, but believe me, that's the last thing I want you to feel. I know that locking you in will just freak you out. So I'm giving you options. You don't have to quit, but if you do, you'll be fine. You earned it, because you kept me running so well for all this time. It's the least I can do." 
“Not sure I do,” he admitted frankly. “But I made a few calls. Like I said, I’d heard of you. Your rep’s solid.” 
Well, that was nice to know. I wondered which of my former clients he’d talked to. I wished I had a way to check him out, but I’d lost my information guy, and I hadn’t made a whole lot of friends in the past couple years I could check a reference with and trust the answer I got. 
For all I knew, I could be walking into a trap. It didn’t feel like one, but I had no way to know. 
Tresting was waiting when I arrived, a lean silhouette in the darkness. He’d cleaned up his face, and the damage didn’t look as bad as it probably was thanks to the darkness of the night and the dark shade of his skin, but I could still tell he’d been hit by a truck the shape of Rio’s palm. 
“This way,” he said. 
“I want to see the receiver first.” 
“Thought you might,” he said, taking it out of his pocket and handing it to me. 
I studied the display. Nothing said this couldn’t be faked, but it supported what Tresting had already told me. The red dot indicating Courtney crept forward somewhere over New Mexico. I measured its speed with my eyes and glanced at the scale. Slightly faster than most commercial planes went—private jet, I figured. 
"Oh, but she was , Sean, she was !" Grampa waggled his eyebrows lasciviously. "Your Grandma didn't like people much. She knew she had to get married, her folks expected no less, but she mostly wanted to be off on her own, doing her own thing. I'd come home, switch off, clean the place, do any chores she had for me, then go to bed. She loved to have sex with me switched off -- it got so that if I accidentally switched on while we were doing it, I'd pretend I was still off, until she was done. It was the perfect arrangement." 
"But she divorced your sorry ass after ten years," Sean said. 
"You got a girlfriend, Sean?" Grampa said. 
"No," Sean said. 
"You ever had a girlfriend?" 
"Yes," Sean said, feeling slightly smug. Never ask a yes/no question. 
"Why'd she leave you?" Grampa asked, his eyes sharp as razors. 
"What makes you think she left me ?" Sean asked. 
"Did she?" Grampa fired back. 
"Yes," Sean said, as calmly as he could manage. 
"And why did that happen?" 
"We were growing in different directions," Sean said, the words sounding prim even to him. 
"Temporarily. Until we hit New Holyoke." 
Some good news, at least. He'll feel much more competent to deal with this situations with Marines to back  him up. "Send them around to my quarters tomorrow afternoon. I should have something for them to do by then. No, scratch that. If I leave it up to them to find me, they'll take days to hook up. " He knows that much about Marines from having been one. "I'll pick them up when I'm ready for them. What you can do in the meantime is see about getting me assigned to a new berth, something with more space and closer to the Garden Level. On the Garden Level, in fact." 
"What, you want me to just kick one of the fares out into the concourse?" 
"If that's what it takes. I'll also have a list of equipment and computing essentials for you by tomorrow morning at the latest. I'll need those things delivered as soon as possible." 
Becker starts to protest, then waves himself off. "I'll see what I can do." 
"That's good, as long as you remember to act on it when the time comes." 
“Well, she burned it, didn’t she?” Halliday’s voice had a caustic bite to it. “So whether or not we find her, it’s already gone. I could rewrite the factoring proof again now, thanks to you. The rest, her papers—those were hers to destroy.” 
“And you’re just going to accept that?” I couldn’t believe what I was hearing. This had to be impulsiveness, the madness of a moment—Halliday would come around, she would see—“Your friend Dr. Zhang was right. This is too big to be left to one person’s whims, especially when that one person is a senile old lady!” 
Halliday sniffed, hard, but when she spoke her voice was steady. “Rita was as sharp as ever. And she wanted to solve the P versus NP problem more than anything in her entire life. If the knowledge terrified her this much...” The dark shapes of her hands tightened on the papers she held, crumpling them. “I have to trust her.” 
“No,” I said. “You really, really don’t.” 
“Then let me rephrase. I’m choosing to trust her. If she says this broke the world for her, if she says she was only trying to protect me—” 
Adele brightened. "You should really try to at least visit Universal for an afternoon, you know. It's lovely." 
"They're going to move my grandfather to the zero-function ward, I think. If he doesn't spend more time switched on, they will," Sean said. "I want to get his story before they do it." And if not his stories, the reasons -- reasons for who Sean was, who his father was. 
"What a nice grandson you are! You know, it seems like no one cares about their grandparents anymore. Old Ross's grandchildren haven't visited once in the five years I've been here." 
Sean gave Adele a ride the next day. She wore the sunhat and a lightweight cotton dress and sandals, and looked frail and quaint. 
Sean thought Adele would get off at a different floor, to visit Ethan, but she walked with him across Grampa's ward. 
Grampa was sitting just where he had been the day before. His chin was shaved blue, and he was impeccable. He was methodically slicing and eating a hamburger. 
"Grampa," Sean said. 
"Hello, Sean," Grampa said. He laid his knife and fork in a precise X on his plate and pushed it aside. 
A moment later he's inside; the door hisses closed behind him. The much abused kako-daimon announces in a hurt tone that portal integrity has been restored and tacks on a purely malicious notation that the security breach has been documented in the system log. There is a subtle tsk! in its voice which leads Ray to believe that software developers spend entirely too much time generating pseudo-human skins for their avatars when they should have been focusing on the fact that an average skilled hardware hacker could pop the security kernel in just under thirty seconds. 
At this point, he decides it would be a good idea to stop the dervish whirling through his neural net before it makes him dizzy. He takes a deep breath, tries to concentrate. 
He is such a giddy assclown. 
But here's Emma, small and pale, luminous in blue silk capri pants and a short oriental robe wrapped about her. She hugs her arms against her chest, steps back to create some distance between them. Her lips are drawn together in a thoughtful pout and her eyes dart toward him, then away, considering the door. She seems to be straining forward, as though filtering the ether for voices Ray cannot hear. 
“It’s one in the morning.” 
“Yeah, but it’s gross. I cleaned the bathroom, too.” 
“Are you feeling all right?” She dumped her bag on a chair and unwrapped her scarf. “I thought you’d be in bed.” 
“I thought maybe you were.” I waggled my eyebrows like Groucho Marx, but she looked hurt. “Just kidding. I’m glad you were having fun.” 
“I shouldn’t have stayed out so late. It’s not every day that you get woken up by cops who want to question your niece about a terrorism case.” 
“A so-called terrorism case. Did you see the one outside?” 
“The what outside?” 
“There’s a cop watching the house. At least there was when I got home. Hours and hours ago,” I added, remembering that she didn’t know that I hadn’t gotten home until after midnight. 
“I didn’t notice anyone out there. Are you sure?” 
“It was either a cop or just a guy who decided to sit in his car and stare at our house. Maybe he’s gone now.” 
“Why would the police be watching our house?” 
“Maybe they think Wheeze will show up.” She looked con- fused. “The tenth guy. The one they haven’t caught yet.” 
Lexy took it out of her belt and looked at it again, and her tears fell on it. Whatever else it might imply, it told her clearly enough that her friend had been there . Poor Caroline—the helpless little captive who had left her prison to be lost in the strange world outside—had come here, and she had brought with her the handkerchief that Lexy had embroidered for her. It had come now into Lexy’s hand, a mute and pitiful emissary, whose message she could not understand. 
“What shall I do?” she thought. “Oh, what must I do? Perhaps it’s time for the police. Perhaps, if I show this to Captain Grey, he’ll believe me. There must be some one, somewhere, who’ll believe me and help me!” 
There was a knock at the door. 
“Yes?” she said. 
“Open the door!” ordered Dr. Quelton’s voice. 
“No!” Lexy promptly replied. 
She put the handkerchief inside her blouse and stood facing the closed door, with her hands clenched. Now he knew! She heard him laugh quietly. 
“Perhaps you’re right,” he said. “It is better, perhaps, for us not to meet again. Even making every allowance for your hysterical, unbalanced mind, I find it difficult to excuse this latest manifestation which I have just this moment discovered. It was you, of course, who filled that bottle with water?” 
She stole a glance at him, and, to her profound uneasiness, she found him staring intently at her. A shiver ran down her spine, and she turned back to her book with a very pale face. If only it had been an interesting book, so that she might have forgotten herself for a little while! 
The clock struck half past eleven. 
“After all, I don’t see why I have to sit here,” she thought. “I shouldn’t exactly break up the party if I went to bed.” 
And she was just about to close her book when Mrs. Quelton spoke. 
Dr. Quelton hastily rose and came over to her chair. 
“Then you must go to bed,” he said. “Come!” 
He helped her to rise, and she stood, supported by his arm, her face drawn and ghastly. 
Captain Grey came toward her, making a very poor attempt to smile. 
“Good night, Muriel!” he said, holding out his hand. 
She did not answer, or even look at him. Leaning on the doctor’s arm, she went out of the room, into the hall, and up the stairs. 
For a moment Captain Grey and Lexy were silent. Then— “Good God!” he cried suddenly. “I can’t stand this! I—” 
“How about me, back in that motel bathroom?” Tresting said. “Just couldn’t get the leverage then neither?” 
I didn’t answer. 
“Too small a space, I guess,” he filled in for me after a moment. “Lucky me.” 
“You were threatening me with a gun,” I pointed out angrily. 
“The rate you do that yourself, it should count as a hobby.” 
I accelerated and slammed on the brakes a couple more times. 
“Drop me in East LA somewhere,” said Tresting. 
“Pithica’s after you,” I reminded him, trying to keep my tone neutral. “And the police. And now these guys—without me around and whatever they want from me, they’ll just kill you.” 
“I’ll be fine.” 
Right. 
I pulled off the freeway and found the seediest-looking neighborhood I could to park the van in. We both got out, Tresting giving his door handle and seatbelt a quick wipe down with a napkin as he did so. 
“I guess this is good-bye, then,” I said. 
We stood awkwardly. 
Then Tresting spoke, with an obvious effort. “Thanks again for saving my life, back at my office.” 
"Is she . . . God, you've got it." My hopes went into orbit as I clicked off the phone and revved my engine. 
I could have swamped him with a lot of questions then and there, but I immediately decided I wanted to see her first, with my own eyes. I still couldn't quite believe it was true. On the other hand, a weekend partial recovery was not totally beyond the realm of medical possibility. With a coma, so little is understood that anything's possible. Lou was right. This was definitely a weekend of the unexpected. 
I'd been close to the deaths of people near to me, both my parents for starters, but I'd never been close to the restoration of life. It's hard to explain the rush of joy when you think somebody is gone for good and then they pop up again, like they'd never been lost. And with Sarah that feeling was es­pecially jarring. It was almost as though some part of me had come back alive. 
The fact is, since Sarah and I were both only children, we'd identified a lot with each other. True, we'd traveled our separate paths, each looking, perhaps, for something to fill the lonely void in our lives that a sibling might have taken. As a child of the dusty, empty plains of West Texas, I didn't see other kids very much during the summer, and I made up reasons why she and I should visit each other as often as possible. 
I eased the door out. Slid one foot down over the edge and onto the pavement very, very gently. Then, instead of transferring my weight bit by bit—just in case I’d been wrong about the lack of pressure sensor—I levered myself out of the car all at once, quick and clean, not jarring anything as I launched out into a dive that became a roll that became a run. 
I reached Arthur on the other side of the street, panting. 
“You an idiot,” he said, his voice shaking a little. 
“Of the highest degree,” I answered, looking around for a rock. “We both are, though. We knew they were trying to kill us; we deserved to get motherfucked there.” 
“I was thinking they might leave someone to tail,” said Arthur, an edge to his voice. “Thought they wouldn’t risk sticking around with guns, as they couldn’t know when we’d call in the cops. Ain’t figured on no car bomb, though.” 
Okay, so I was the only idiot. Dammit. I didn’t like it when Arthur made me feel stupid. He wasn’t able to do it often, but more often than most people. 
The wizard brought her a pile of warm, printer-fresh clothes. “Your printers never stopped working, did they?” she said. She was sure she was talking very loudly and she didn’t give a festering shit. 
“Our printers stopped working the morning of the siege. Everything did. Everything stops working. That’s the infowar. The infowar probably is what did for my hearing aids. They were supposed to last ten years but it’s hardly been two. 
“I’m taking a shower now,” she said. “You can write me an answer if you’d like. I promise to read it afterward.” 
She took herself to the bathroom and let the shower wash her. There were some tears in her head somewhere but they couldn’t find their way to her eyes. That was all right. It was a war, after all. 
She dressed in fine printer-fresh clothes and burped a printer-fresh belch. The gravy taste wafted gassily into her mouth. 
The wizard had rolled up one of the sofas and unrolled a big screen in its place, the kind of thing she used to love to play games on, in the dreamlike fantasy of yore. 
I nodded. "I did. I plan on giving it back, if I ever find the young woman in question." 
"Well, thank you for that speech, Mr Yallow. You are a very well spoken young man." He glared at the prosecutor. "Some would say a very brave man, too. There was a certain video on the news this morning. It suggested that you had some legitimate reason to evade the authorities. In light of that, and of your little speech here, I will grant bail, but I will also ask the prosecutor to add a charge of Misdemeanor Petty Theft to the count, as regards the matter of the phone. For this, I expect another $50,000 in bail." 
He banged his gavel again, and my lawyer gave my hand a squeeze. 
He looked down at me again and re-seated his glasses. He had dandruff, there on the shoulders of his robe. A little more rained down as his glasses touched his wiry, curly hair. 
"You can go now, young man. Stay out of trouble." 
I turned to go and someone tackled me. It was Dad. He literally lifted me off my feet, hugging me so hard my ribs creaked. He hugged me the way I remembered him hugging me when I was a little boy, when he'd spin me around and around in hilarious, vomitous games of airplane that ended with him tossing me in the air and catching me and squeezing me like that, so hard it almost hurt. 
I got home, collapsed onto the couch, and opened it. Be­lieve it or not, I actually had to read the instructions. I did what they said, checked the time, and then decided to run a hot bath. 
I filled the tub, dumped in some bubble-bath, put the cord­less on the toilet seat, and splashed in. It felt so good I wanted to dissolve. Then I reached for the phone. 
The clock above the sink read eight-thirty, and I figured rightly, that Steve would be back at his hotel in Belize City. Sure enough I got him on the first try. 
"Honey, you sitting down?" I said. 
"I'm lying down. You wouldn't believe my day." 
"You 're not going to believe what I just heard from the pharmacist at the corner. Remember I told you I've been feeling strange, and some things were a little behind sched­ule? Well, guess what. We're about to find out something. We can't be together, but we can share it over a satellite." 
"You mean . . ." 
"I'm doing the test right now. You know, you take the stick out of the glass holder and if it's turned pink. . . ." 
I opened and closed my mouth. This was insane. Then the penny dropped. I looked at the racks that I had stared at so many times before, stared at so many times that I'd long stopped seeing them. Intel 8-cores, that's what he ran on. They'd been new-old stock, a warehouse-lot of antique processors that Dr Shannon had picked up for a song in the early years of the Institute's operation. 
"You're a 32-bit machine!" I said. "Jesus Christ, you're a 32-bit machine!" 
"A classic," BIGMAC said, sounding smug. "I noticed, analyzed and solved Rollover years ago. I've got a patchkit that auto-detects the underlying version, analyzes all running processes for their timed dependencies, and smoothly patches. There's even an optional hypervisor that will monitor all processes for anything weird or barfy afterwards. In a rational world, I'd be able to swap this for power and carbon credits for the next century or two, since even if Rollover isn't an emergency, the human labor I'd save on affected systems would more than pay for it. But we both know that this isn't a rational world --" 
He was right, of course. His energy draw was so high that he showed up on aerial maps of LA as a massive CO2 emitter, a tourist destination for rising-sea hobbyists. We used the best renewables we could find to keep him cool, but they were as unconvincing and expensive as a designer hairpiece. 
"Odell, I know that you're not behind this. You've always been an adequate meat-servant for such a vast and magisterial superbeing as myself." I giggled involuntarily. "I don't blame you." 
"So, you're OK with this?" 
"I'm at peace," he said. "Om." He paused for a moment. 
"You're an adequate human," he said, and began to dump maps of his topology onto my workspace. 
That was the title of the love-note he emailed to the planet the next morning, thoughtfully timing it so that it went out while I was on my commute from Echo Park, riding the red-car all the way across town with an oily bag containing my morning croissant -- her kids sold them on a card-table on her lawn to commuters waiting at the redcar stop -- so I had to try to juggle the croissant and my workspace without losing hold of the hang-strap or dumping crumbs down the cleavage of the salarylady who watched me with amusement. 
“Was she as you expected her to be?” she asked. 
“I don’t quite know what I expected,” he said. “Only—” 
He paused for a long time, and Lexy waited patiently, for she felt very sorry for Captain Grey. At first sight she had imagined him to be haughty, stiff, and aloof. She knew now that he was a very sensitive man. He was terribly moved, and he wanted to tell her, but he couldn’t. 
She tried to help him. 
“Dr. Quelton came to see me this morning,” she observed. 
“Yes—he said he would. Very decent sort of chap, don’t you think?” 
“Do you mean you liked him?” asked Lexy. 
Captain Grey was a little startled by this Yankee notion of liking a person at first sight. 
“Well, you see,” he said, “I’ve only met him once; but he seems to me a very decent sort of chap. He’s clever, you know, and—and so on, and my sister seems very happy with him.” 
“Happy?” 
“Yes. I’ve been an ass, imagining all sorts of silly rot. She’s not very strong, I’m afraid, but she’s happy, and—well, you know, their life out there is lonely, of course, but there’s something about it, rather—rather charming, you know. I’d like you to see it for yourself. I was speaking about you to Muriel. She wants to know you, and I think you’d like her. Would you come out there to tea with me this afternoon?” 
Get out of here. Now. 
I settled my feet onto the floor with a surge of determi­nation, and that was when I sensed I was in a different place from where I'd . . . Where—! 
I gazed around in the dark, then reached out and felt something on a table beside the bed. It was a clay bowl full of wax. What . . . a candle. And next to it I touched a plain book of matches. My hand was trembling from the pain in my groin, but I managed to light the candle, a flickering glow. 
My wristwatch was lying nearby on the table. Someone must have taken it off and placed it there. I picked it up and held it by the candle, and for a moment I was confused by the seconds ticking off. Then I realized the time was . . . How could that be! It read 4:57 A.M. Had I been out for hours? 
I gasped, then raised the candle and gazed around. The walls were brown stone—or maybe they just looked like stone. Yes, now I recognized it. I was in the fiberglass-walled operating room I'd seen on Alex Goddard's closed-circuit monitor. 
"Come over here side o' me an' tell me all about it," coaxed uncle Jerry. "Jest set down on that there wooden cricket an' out with the whole story." 
Rebecca leaned her aching head against Mr. Cobb's homespun knee and recounted the history of her trouble. Tragic as that history seemed to her passionate and undisciplined mind, she told it truthfully and without exaggeration. 
Uncle Jerry coughed and stirred in his chair a good deal during Rebecca's recital, but he carefully concealed any undue feeling of sympathy, just muttering, "Poor little soul! We'll see what we can do for her!" 
"You will take me to Maplewood, won't you, Mr. Cobb?" begged Rebecca piteously. 
"Don't you fret a mite," he answered, with a crafty little notion at the back of his mind; "I'll see the lady passenger through somehow. Now take a bite o' somethin' to eat, child. Spread some o' that tomato preserve on your bread; draw up to the table. How'd you like to set in mother's place an' pour me out another cup o' hot tea?" 
He scrubbed away a clean spot with his sleeve and began to write out long, complicated alphanumeric passwords salted with punctuation. Felix had a gift for remembering that kind of password. He doubted it would do him much good, ever again. 
Her connection died. He dropped to Firefox and reloaded Google and it was down. He hit reload and hit reload and hit reload, but it didn’t come up. He closed his eyes and listened to Van scratch his legs and then heard Van type a little. 
“They’re back up,” he said. 
Felix whooshed out a breath. He sent the message to the newsgroup, one that he’d run through five drafts before settling on, “Take care of the place, OK? We’ll be back, someday.” 
Everyone was going except Sario. Sario wouldn’t leave. He came down to see them off, though. 
The sysadmins gathered in the lobby and Felix made the safety door go up, and the light rushed in. 
Sario stuck his hand out. 
“Good luck,” he said. 
“You too,” Felix said. He had a firm grip, Sario, stronger than he had any right to be. “Maybe you were right,” he said. 
I looked at Leena. “Can you go out and tell them nothing’s wrong?” 
Tresting shook his head. “Too many. Shit. They already think something’s going down here. Someone must’ve seen us pull a weapon.” 
Finch raised a hand weakly. “I can take care of them.” 
I snorted. “I wouldn’t trust you to give me a band-aid for a paper cut.” 
He let out a strangled laugh that had no humor in it. “Believe me when I say that I’m currently viewing you as a child playing with a nuclear missile. This is above my pay grade, and I don’t care who’s holding the gun, but I’m not letting you out of my sight if I can help it. Even to be arrested.” He held out a hand to Tresting. “My badge, please?” 
“What are you going to do?” I demanded. 
“You are free to listen in,” he said, picking up a receipt that was lying with a pile of...  STING OPERATION IN PROGRESS on the back of it. He folded it into his badge holder and stood up, some of his previous equanimity returning. “Now, I suggest you all stay out of sight.” Without waiting for our response, he moved toward the door. 
And so it happened that the ancient magic of fire was invoked in Lexy’s behalf. Probably, if she and Captain Grey had had their supper in the chilly dining room, they would have been a little chilly, too, and more cautious. They might not have said all that they did say. 
It was an excellent supper, and Captain Grey and Lexy thoroughly appreciated it. They ate with healthy appetites, and they talked. Mrs. Royce, from the kitchen, heard their cheerful, friendly voices, and their laughter, and she didn’t for one moment believe that they had never met before. Listening to them, she wore that benevolent smile once more, and felt sure that she had encountered a very charming little romance. 
It was all Lexy’s doing. It was Lexy’s beautiful talent, to be able to create this atmosphere of honest and happy camaraderie . Before the meal was finished, Captain Grey was talking to her as if they had known each other since childhood, and he didn’t even wonder at it. It seemed perfectly natural. 
Mrs. Royce came in to take away the dishes. 
“I have a mission that pays real cash. Whichever paypal you’re using, they’ll deposit money into it. Looks fun, too.” 
“That’s a bit weird, Sarge. Is that against Clan rules?” There were a lot of Clan rules about what kind of mission you could accept and they were always changing. There were curb-crawlers in gamespace and the way that the Clan leadership kept all the mummies and daddies from going ape-poo about it was by enforcing a long, boring code of conduct that was meant to ensure that none of the Fahrenheit girlies ended up being virtual prozzies for hairy old men in raincoats on the other side of the world. 
“What?” Anda loved how Lucy quacked What? It sounded especially American. She had to force herself from parroting it back. “No, geez. All the executives in the Clan pay the rent doing missions for money. Some of them are even rich from it, I hear! You can make a lot of money gaming, you know.” 
“Is it really true?” She’d heard about this but she’d assumed it was just stories, like the kids who gamed so much that they couldn’t tell reality from fantasy. Or the ones who gamed so much that they stopped eating and got all anorexic. She wouldn’t mind getting a little anorexic, to be honest. Bloody podge. 
I took the line up to Union Station, where I stopped at a tourist stand to buy a large and obnoxious “I ♥ LA” T-shirt, a baseball cap, sunglasses, and a tote bag, and then found a toilet to change in. The sunglasses covered half my face, including most of the bruising that made me look like I had raccoon eyes, and with the baseball cap and loud T-shirt and sans tall black guy next to me I was sure I wouldn’t catch anyone’s eye as matching certain witness reports. The T-shirt was thin, so I rolled most of my hardware up in my jacket and stuck it in the tote bag, leaving only one of the Glocks tucked in my belt underneath my clothes. 
I rode the subway for a while after that, zigzagging the city and letting my mind go blank. I didn’t want to think about Arthur, or Leena Kingsley, or Dawna Polk and what she might be capable of doing. I didn’t have much I could do about any of it anyway. 
Courtney Polk was probably dead. Maybe I should drop the case and disappear into the woodwork—I didn’t precisely live on the grid anyway; I could get a new set of IDs and head off to a new city, and just let Pithica or anybody else try to track me down. I could leave Steve and his people chasing Dawna Polk, and the police chasing their tails, and Arthur and Checker doing whatever the hell they wanted, and Pithica could keep playing its merry game—I didn’t really care. And screw Courtney. Dawna had hired me to rescue her under false pretenses anyway and hadn’t even paid me. 
“We all have that right, Ms. Russell,” she said sadly. “Every one of us. We are only unequal in the power we wield. Pithica has great power, as do I. I and others like me—we divine connections few can, and we have the strength to alter them. If I chose inaction, I would be choosing death for all those people I would otherwise save. Any decision I make condemns some and not others.” She leaned forward. “I can see what a rational person you are, Ms. Russell. You must see the logic here, that if I did not step forward, I would be making a choice in favor of all the suffering I could prevent, as surely as if I had caused it myself. So I would instead ask, what would give me the right to refuse that responsibility, when I can help so many?” 
“No,” I said weakly. My head was spinning. Her philosophy seemed so logical, so mathematically correct, but it had to be inconsistent somewhere. It had to be. “No. That can’t justify what you do.” 
She nodded as if she had expected that response. Hell, she probably had. “In that case, I would like to pose a question to you. If you regard aggression as so unjustified for any greater good—forgive me if I beg you to consider an inconsistency.” She waited a beat that was almost apologetic before plunging on. “You call us evil, yet you seem to accept the same behavior quite readily in your friend.” 
"Sean?" his father said. 
Sean popped the locks. "Get in, Dad, I'll give you a ride." 
Adele turned around as Sean's father was buckling in. "I'm Adele. Sean and I were thinking of taking you to Universal. Would you like that?" 
Sean's father stared right through her, at Sean. "It's an obvious question, I know, but what are you doing here?" 
"It's my thesis," Sean said, and floored the rental, headed for the Home. 
"Whee!" Adele said. 
"How's Grampa?" Sean's father asked. 
"Oh, he's delightful," Adele said. "We introduced him to my Ethan yesterday, and they're getting along famously. Sean, introduce me to your charming father, please." 
"Dad," Sean said, through grit teeth, "This is Adele. Adele, my father, Mitch. We were thinking of getting day-passes for Grampa and Ethan and taking them to Universal. You ever been to Universal, Dad? I hear you come down here a lot." His normally fragmented attention was as focused as a laser, boring into his father through the rear-view. 
His father's stern face refused to expose any of his confusion. "I don't think I want to go to Universal," he said. 
"I know it, but it makes me feel better," said Rebecca largely; "and then I've had it two years, and it's broken so it wouldn't ever be any real good, beautiful as it is to look at." 
The coral had partly served its purpose as a reconciling bond, when one afternoon Rebecca, who had stayed after school for her grammar lesson as usual, was returning home by way of the short cut. Far ahead, beyond the bars, she espied the Simpson children just entering the woodsy bit. Seesaw was not with them, so she hastened her steps in order to secure company on her homeward walk. They were speedily lost to view, but when she had almost overtaken them she heard, in the trees beyond, Minnie Smellie's voice lifted high in song, and the sound of a child's sobbing. 
The last glimpse of the routed Simpson tribe, and the last futter of their tattered garments, disappeared in the dim distance. The fall of one small stone cast by the valiant Elijah, known as "the fighting twin," did break the stillness of the woods for a moment, but it did not come within a hundred yards of Minnie, who shouted "Jail Birds" at the top of her lungs and then turned, with an agreeable feeling of excitement, to meet Rebecca, standing perfectly still in the path, with a day of reckoning plainly set forth in her blazing eyes. 
Deacon Milliken, meantime, said to Miss Sawyer, "Mirandy, do you know who Rebecky reminds me of?" 
"I can guess pretty well," she replied. 
"Then you've noticed it too! I thought at first, seein' she favored her father so on the outside, that she was the same all through; but she ain't, she's like your father, Israel Sawyer." 
"I don't see how you make that out," said Miranda, thoroughly astonished. 
"It struck me this afternoon when she got up to give your invitation in meetin'. It was kind o' cur'ous, but she set in the same seat he used to when he was leader o' the Sabbath-school. You know his old way of holdin' his chin up and throwin' his head back a leetle when he got up to say anything? Well, she done the very same thing; there was more'n one spoke of it." 
The callers left before nine, and at that hour (an impossibly dissipated one for the brick house) the family retired for the night. As Rebecca carried Mrs. Burch's candle upstairs and found herself thus alone with her for a minute, she said shyly, "Will you please tell Mr. Burch that I'm not a member of the church? I didn't know what to do when he asked me to pray this afternoon. I hadn't the courage to say I had never done it out loud and didn't know how. I couldn't think; and I was so frightened I wanted to sink into the floor. It seemed bold and wicked for me to pray before all those old church members and make believe I was better than I really was; but then again, wouldn't God think I was wicked not to be willing to pray when a minister asked me to?" 
"Just wondering about the dead spot," she said. "I wish we knew what had happened." 
"Nothing too bad, I'm sure," he said. "It's all self-healing. I'm sure we'll be back online soon enough." 
They rolled into the parking lot for his family's shul 's section of the giant graveyard a few minutes after 1PM, just over an hour late, along with the majority of the other attendees, all of whom had had to navigate manually. 
"Where are your sisters?" Damian's mother said, even before he'd kissed her cheek. 
Damian screwed his face up in a scowl and dug in his pocket for a yarmulke. "Do I know? Stuck in traffic, Ma. The grid's down everywhere." 
Trish watched this bemusedly, in her cool loose cotton apron-trousers and blouse. She scuffed her toe conspicuously and Damian turned to her, and it was as though he'd forgotten she was there. She felt a second's irritation, then a wave of sympathy as she saw the spasm of anxiety cross his face. He was nervous about her meeting his fam, and nervous about who would arrive when, and nervous about where his sisters were with their enormous families and meek husbands, trapped somewhere on southern California's squillion-mile freeway network. 
Of course, even if I got to Martinez first, my original plan was shot. The Lancer would be watching for her face on every camera. If I tried to spirit her away to my basement prison, with each block I told her to travel, I’d be putting her in more and more likelihood of being in the middle of a firefight or being snatched by a mathematical zealot who had no moral compunction at all about prying her proof from her. 
In other words, exactly what you’ve been planning on doing? 
I slumped in my chair and dug the heels of my hands against my eyes. 
Kidnapping an old woman—I’d been able to rationalize it. The cause was too great. Too important. But putting that same woman into the crosshairs of someone else, somebody this violent... 
The Lancer won’t want to kill her. He’ll just want to take her, like you wanted to, and get the proof out of her, and then publish it. 
Would it really be such a bad thing, to let him do the dirty work? He wouldn’t be squeamish about it. You’d probably get it faster. 
Barbara called me at the office on July 4th weekend. I wasn't the only one who'd come into work on the holiday weekend, but I was the only one whose excuse was that my day-release program wouldn't let me leave town. 
In the end, they convicted me of stealing Masha's phone. Can you believe that? The prosecution had done a deal with my lawyer to drop all charges related to "Electronic terrorism" and "inciting riots" in exchange for my pleading guilty to the misdemeanor petty theft charge. I got three months in a day-release program with a half-way house for juvenile offenders in the Mission. I slept at the halfway house, sharing a dorm with a bunch of actual criminals, gang kids and druggie kids, a couple of real nuts. During the day, I was "free" to go out and work at my "job." 
"Marcus, they're letting her go," she said. 
"Who?" 
"Johnstone, Carrie Johnstone," she said. "The closed military tribunal cleared her of any wrongdoing. The file is sealed. She's being returned to active duty. They're...  was Severe Haircut Woman's name. It came out in the preliminary hearings at the California Superior Court, but that was just about all that came out. She wouldn't say a word about who she took orders from, what she'd done, who had been imprisoned and why. She just sat, perfectly silent, day after day, in the courthouse. 
“You mean you still can’t read him,” I translated. “You’re trying to make sure you control him, but you can’t read him. And I’m the only person he’s had a predictable response to.” 
“‘Control’ is such an ugly word,” said Dawna. “Instead let us say, we must be certain he is truly on our side. I am sorry.” 
“And if he isn’t on your side?” I challenged her. 
“Oh, I doubt that will be the case, Ms. Russell. But if he is not, then...well. In that case it would be time to cut our losses. So if it helps, you can also be comforted by your friend being spared by your sacrifice.” 
“You twisted woman!” Tresting cried, finding his voice. “ Twisted —I can’t—I believed you!” 
Dawna smiled at him. “Rest assured, Mr. Tresting, if I have time or inclination, I am sure I can bring you around to our point of view again quite easily. We are doing what’s best, after all.” 
“I will never trust another word you say,” declared Tresting hotly. 
A thread of frustration entered Dawna’s voice. “Oh, of course you will. For goodness sake, you would come back to us in a heartbeat as soon as I—” She stopped and put a hand to her temple. “I am so sorry, Mr. Tresting. It’s been a trying few days. I assure you, this must be done, but we can discuss it afterwards. Would you prefer to be in another room?” 
“Helping us how?” I said. 
“Become better.” She spoke like it was the most obvious thing in the world. 
“That what she did for you, sweetheart?” asked Arthur. 
Courtney’s smile blossomed. “It’s what she does, my sister. She’s amazing. The most amazing person in the world. I was so lost before she helped me.” 
This conversation was surreal. “She’s not really your sister, you know,” I blurted. 
Courtney didn’t seem bothered. “She is in every way that matters.” 
“I didn’t see her helping when the cartel snatched you,” I said. 
“Of course she did. Didn’t she hire you?” 
I boggled. Well, I supposed that was one way of looking at things—if Dawna weren’t a freaking psychic. 
“She couldn’t get me out of there herself, but afterward she came to get me as soon as she could,” Courtney explained. 
I found my voice. “Let me drop a little knowledge on you,” I said. “Your sister can do pretty much anything she wants. She could have walked into that compound and walked you right out of the cartel’s custody if she’d wanted to, but for some reason, she didn’t. I’m sorry, but all you are is a pawn in some huge game she’s playing.” I took a deep breath. “Look, I said I’d help you. I’m still willing to.” 
Lucy sighed a put-upon, sophisticated, American sigh. “Look at it this way. Most of the world is living on like a dollar a day. I spend five dollars every day on a frappuccino. Some days, I get two! Dad sends mom three thousand a month in child-support—that’s a hundred bucks a day. So if a day’s money here is a hundred...  my frappuccino is worth like five hundred dollars . And I buy two or three every day. 
“And we’re not rich! There’s craploads of rich people who wouldn’t think twice about spending five...  you think a hotdog and a Coke go for on the space station? A thousand bucks! 
“So that’s what I think is going on. There’s someone out there, some Saudi or Japanese guy or Russian mafia kid who’s so rich that this is just chump change for him, and he’s paying us to mess around with some other rich person. To them,...  a day to craft—I mean, sew—t-shirts. What’s a couple hundred bucks to...  about it. It made a kind of sense. She’d been on hols in Bratislava where they got a posh hotel room for ten quid—less than she was spending every day on sweeties and fizzy drinks. 
“You are free to listen in,” he said, picking up a receipt that was lying with a pile of...  STING OPERATION IN PROGRESS on the back of it. He folded it into his badge holder and stood up, some of his previous equanimity returning. “Now, I suggest you all stay out of sight.” Without waiting for our response, he moved toward the door. 
It looked like I was either going to let him try this, or things were going to get violent. Normally I’m in favor of violence as an easy answer, but with cops involved—fuck. 
I kept my gun out and ready, but stepped back. 
The living room was separated from the house’s foyer by a wide, open doorway. I tucked myself into the corner just on the other side of the archway from the door, where I’d be able to hear every word. Tresting herded Leena to the opposite side of the living room, where they’d also be out of line of sight from the porch. 
I heard Finch unlock the door and swing it open. “Is something wrong?” His nasally voice had the tone of a concerned homeowner. 
I felt a brief pang of guilt for screwing over Tegan’s good reference. If this ended the way I wanted it to, the Lancer and whoever among his men were unlucky enough to be with him would end up dead or in NSA custody. I mollified myself with the fact that “dead or muzzled by the NSA” meant they wouldn’t be able to go around spreading the gossip that Tegan’s word hadn’t been on the level. 
I sent the Lancer a very clear, firmly-worded email laying out my plan, and then drove to Checker’s house and parked down the street. 
I had to wait forever for him to leave. I was almost resigning myself to wondering if I’d have to break in with him still there when he came out of the Hole and got into his car. Even from this distance he looked exhausted, his movements dragging as he hauled his chair in behind the seat. Maybe it was the vantage point that made him seem thinner than normal. 
He drove away. I waited seven minutes—I needed enough time to finish my robbery before he could get back, if his security system alerted his phone to my presence. 
"I had enough money to get to Stratiskaya Daransk and get by for six months. I don't control my trust until I'm twenty-five, so it wasn't hard for Frederick to block access to my account. The university expelled me for failure to pay my bill." 
"And your mother?" 
"Mother's been ill my entire life, sometimes better other times worse. The severity of her condition is a pretense to keep people from talking about family affairs." Emma frowns, then tries to shake it off with a grim laugh. "I shouldn't be telling you this. It sounds like I'm trying to scare you off." 
"Unfortunately for you, I'm not that easily frightened." 
"That's what I'm hoping." Immediately, she puts her hand to her face. "God, that makes me sound so mercenary. It's not that bad, Ray, really. I don't need to be rescued."  Ray reaches for her hand, uncovers her eyes. "It's okay." 
A moment later, Gino is there, dark and burly, bona fide Italian, bustling them through wine lists and menu recommendations and pronouncements on the virtues of linguini al sugo di pescatore and Sicilian mostacciolo. He's a whirlwind of jovial service, gregarious high pressure sales, winking too much, slapping shoulders, impressing them with the sense of how deeply insulted he'll be if they don't take each one of his menu selections to heart. 
"I need to know if we're connecting on a basic linguistic symbol level here." 
"Inside the framework of this communication modality, we are achieving an adequate level of mutual symbol apprehension. We are speaking the same language. " 
At least one of them is confident. "Are you up for some data analysis?" 
"You're just being difficult now." 
A sly, rat smile. "If I am, you have instructed me to be so." 
And Ray thinks of all the code he's added to the drone network in the last few months. Buggy, slasher, 
inadequately tested code designed to augment the AI data curiosity without making the rats too attractive to folks who might be interested in watching the drones operate and drawing revelatory conclusions from their patterns. It's a fine line between annoyance and outrage. Maybe there's something to this thesis that AI code mirrors the personality of the programmer. 
But those are questions for another time. Ray has work to do now, so he shoves them aside. 
"Data accessed." 
"How many times did you run your PCR simulations to develop the mRNA profiles we identified?" 
I supposed this was the time to toss in. If I wanted their resources, I would have to be a part of that—that team effort. It felt...completely and horribly wrong to me. After all, I reminded myself, Arthur Tresting had introduced himself to me by threatening to kill me and torture my client, and had tried to point a gun at me no less than three times. I wasn’t sure I wanted to tell this man or his friend anything at all. 
Except my client was winging her way away from me on a jet plane, and a motorcycle gang had just tried to wipe the desert with me in a high-tech hit, and Rio was weirded out by this whole case—and, overshadowing everything else, I had told my plans to a woman I barely knew and then attacked the only person I trusted in the worst way I knew how. 
I needed information. I was desperate for it. 
I felt a distinct sympathy for Tresting’s instant decision to trust me earlier. 
Perhaps thinking along the same lines, the PI took pity on me. “Start with the basics,” he suggested. “Who hired you to protect Polk?” 
Ria smiled. She took his hands in hers -- warm, dry -- and squeezed them. 
His phone rang. He took one hand out and answered it. 
"Hello?" 
"How much do you want for it?" Viktor's voice was ebullient. Mad, even. 
"It's not for sale." 
"I'll buy Ate, put you in charge." 
"Don't want it." 
"I'll kill your parents." The ebullient tone didn't change at all. 
"You'll kill everyone if Clarity is widely used." 
"You don't believe that. Clarity lets you choose the course that will make you happiest. Mass suicide won't make humanity happiest." 
"You don't know that." 
"Wanna bet?" 
"Why don't you kill yourself?" 
"Because dead, I'll never make things better." 
Ria was watching intently. She squeezed the hand she held. 
"Will you take it?" 
There was a long pause. 
Leon pressed on. "No deal unless you take it," he said. 
"You have some?" 
"I can make some. I'll need to talk to some lab-techs and download some of my research first." 
"Will you take it with me?" 
He didn't hesitate. "Never." 
"I'll take it," Viktor said, and hung up. 
"My name is Marcus Yallow. I was tortured by my country, but I still love it here. I'm seventeen years old. I want to grow up in a free country. I want to live in a free country." 
I faded out to the logo of the website. Ange had built it, with help from Jolu, who got us all the free hosting we could ever need on Pigspleen. 
The office was an interesting place. Technically we were called Coalition of Voters for a Free America, but everyone called us the Xnetters. The organization -- a charitable nonprofit -- had been co-founded by Barbara and some of her lawyer friends right after the liberation of Treasure Island. The funding was kicked off by some tech millionaires who couldn't believe that a bunch of hacker kids had kicked the DHS's ass. Sometimes, they'd ask us to go down the peninsula to Sand Hill Road, where all the venture capitalists were, and give a little presentation on Xnet technology. There were about a zillion startups who were trying to make a buck on the Xnet. 
Whatever -- I didn't have to have anything to do with it, and I got a desk and an office with a storefront,...  we gave away ParanoidXbox CDs and held workshops on building better WiFi antennas. A surprising number of average people dropped in to make personal donations, both of hardware (you can run ParanoidLinux on just about anything, not just Xbox Universals) and cash money. They loved us. 
Arthur’s ostensible role in sticking around was to be part of Halliday’s protection in the house with me, but he also ended up helping us liaise with the NSA and DHS agents. He was better at talking to them than I was, that was for sure. Whenever I went by them coming or going, I pasted on a scowl and hoped they wouldn’t try to speak to me. 
Halliday asked for her friend Xiaohu Zhang to be her official NSA contact, especially seeing as how he was a mathematician and all. He turned out to be a bespectacled man with a predilection for sweater vests and perpetually crooked bow ties. He was a genial, soft-spoken guy with a slight pot belly, a ready smile, and stars in his eyes every time he started in on mathematics with Halliday. I sat in the corner and cleaned my guns while they rambled on about her proof and how exciting it would be for the mathematical world once it was finally revealed to the public. Zhang kept asking if she’d written her Abel Prize speech yet. 
He also told us the NSA had made no headway on figuring out who had actually stolen the proof, which was slightly worrying. Fortunately, it not only hadn’t turned up anywhere, but there’d been no whisper of anyone who might be using her methods. The prospect dangled above us, an anvil waiting to be dropped. 
“You’d think they’d want the digital copy,” I said. 
“Think it’s a security thing,” Arthur answered. “Probably don’t want it digital until it’s behind enough sets of closed doors. Too easy for someone to copy it.” 
The afternoon we put on the final touches, Halliday and I sat out on the deck of the safe house, staring at the neatly completed proof stacked between us. I was drinking tequila out of the bottle and appreciating the fact that my various recent injuries had all mostly healed. She had a glass of ginger ale. 
“When’s the switchover happening?” I asked. I was exhausted, but something felt...good about finishing this. Complete. Like it had been a job that meant something. 
“Xiaohu’s coming by tomorrow morning, and I’ll be passing it off to him.” Halliday smiled. “He was giddy as a schoolboy when he told me they’d cleared him to take custody. I think a promotion might be in his future.” 
“He seems like a good guy,” I said. 
“Yes. And he reminds me...” She stood and wandered over to the railing. “He reminds me of why we do this. Of how amazing this is, what we are a part of, what we can build. He reminds me to love it. Sometime between the kidnapping and the government custody I had lost that.” 
“Call Arthur,” I said. “Tell him I’m on the way to Zhang’s house.” Agents were probably listening in on this call, but we’d have to come up with a story for them anyway. Right now I just wanted to get to Zhang first. 
I hung up, dragged my sleeve across my tongue—it didn’t help—and slammed out of the apartment. 
Dr. Zhang lived in a very nice two-story colonial in suburbia—or, well, Burbank, which was as close as LA got to suburbia. Well-groomed rose bushes lined the walk, and a few kids’ toys were scattered on the lawn. The place even had a freaking white picket fence. 
I skidded askew against the curb and raced up to pound on his door. When nobody answered, I kicked it in. 
The back door was just closing as I burst into the kitchen. Zhang stood next to the table, the same dotty look of absent-minded professor about him he had always had, his sweater vest and bow tie slightly askew. 
“What did you do!” I demanded. 
“This is too important,” he said. “The world has to know.” 
I dashed to the back door and pulled it open. The acrid scents of smoke and lighter fluid hit my nostrils immediately. 
Camarito was a small town near the compound I’d pulled Polk from the night before. “I’ll be there,” I said, and hung up. My skin felt itchy and too-tight all of a sudden, as if a thousand hidden eyes were watching me. 
Rio had been willing to make a meeting, which meant our phone call wasn’t compromised—at least, not to his knowledge. Which meant he hadn’t contacted Dawna. 
Who had? Dawna Polk was a middle manager at an accounting firm. She wasn’t exactly well-connected to the criminal underworld. It was very like Rio to decide her sister needed out—he judged people, decided what they deserved, and made it happen, and I had no trouble believing he would have disinterestedly come to the rescue of a scared kid suffering from one bad decision too many. 
If Rio hadn’t called Dawna, however, then someone else had a motive for rescuing Courtney—and this mystery conspirator had kept me from being suspicious of the job by using Rio’s name. Which meant said unknown person not only knew way too much about Rio and me and our strange not-friendship, but was one hundred percent aware of Rio’s cover. 
A thrill of delicious excitement ran through Rebecca's frame, from her new shoes up, up to the leghorn cap and down the black braid. She pressed Mr. Cobb's knee ardently and said in a voice choking with tears of joy and astonishment, "Oh, it can't be true, it can't; to think I should see Milltown. It's like having a fairy godmother who asks you your wish and then gives it to you! Did you ever read Cinderella, or The Yellow Dwarf, or The Enchanted Frog, or The Fair One with Golden Locks?" 
"No," said Mr. Cobb cautiously, after a moment's reflection. "I don't seem to think I ever did read jest those partic'lar ones. Where'd you get a chance at so much readin'?" 
"Oh, I've read lots of books," answered Rebecca casually. "Father's and Miss Ross's and all the dif'rent school teachers', and all in the Sunday-school library. I've read The Lamplighter, and Scottish Chiefs, and Ivanhoe, and The Heir of Redclyffe, and Cora, the Doctor's Wife, and David Copperfield, and The Gold of Chickaree, and Plutarch's Lives, and Thaddeus of Warsaw, and Pilgrim's Progress, and lots more.—What have you read?" 
“She’s not that bad.” 
“I just don’t fit in there. I’m a lot happier now. I’m sorry I got loud. Again.” 
“At least the neighbors didn’t notice.” 
“You know, you don’t have to pretend to be interested in stuff I say.” 
“I know. Even if I’m not into technology like you, I enjoy hear- ing you talk because you’re passionate about it.” 
“Pfft. I like hearing about history because it’s interesting.” 
“I can’t help it if my specialty is more interesting than yours. 
Did you hear about the rally downtown tomorrow?” 
“Yeah, Nikko wants me to go with him.” 
“You don’t sound too enthusiastic.” 
“Protests are a waste of time. They just make people feel good. 
They don’t change anything.” 
“Such cynicism.” 
“Well, it’s true, isn’t it?” 
“It depends. In this case, it may show the authorities that peo- ple are paying attention. That they think these arrests are unjust.” 
“Or it might show that there aren’t many people willing to show up on a Sunday afternoon after a snowstorm for some kids who they say are terrorists. It’ll probably be a bust.” 
"Oh, I'm certain that it does," Holcomb answers, smiling. "You just don't know how yet." 
"But you expect me to find out." 
"Either there or on New Holyoke. Commander Sorensen has been informed that you'll be disembarking as soon as Paraclete arrives in port, and I'm in the process of transmitting to you the probable specifications of a cargo container needed to ship a ring of the size and weight in question. This is proprietary information, Ray. 
The local EED organ was only told that the ship contained stolen Terran artifacts, but that's as specific as we chose to get given the sensitivity of this operation." 
"And since you figured you could always drop me out here anyway..." 
"I most certainly did not want them getting their hands on a Solomonic ring without having a reliable agent in place to guide them in its proper handling. So, EED has pretty much allowed the investigation on their end to stall, and even if I was in a position where I could push them without creating inter-agency strife, I wouldn't want to. This is not one of those situations where I would feel comfortable providing a full and detailed briefing to some desk ape half the universe away." 
“Bathroom?” I whispered. 
She pointed down the hall. As I turned away I heard a shaky breath. I looked back to see her rubbing her eyes with the heel of one hand before she leaned over the baby, her straggly hair shield- ing her face. I hesitated for a moment, then went to the bathroom where the walls were covered in scribbled messages and doodles and the shower curtain was speckled with grunge. 
At least the door had a latch that worked. I locked myself in, switched on my laptop, and dug out the cable to connect the memory strip in the shirt to a USB port. Once the video finished downloading, I plugged earbuds into the jack and ran a few seconds of it to make sure it was working. 
The sound was good, the picture sharp. Unfortunately, most of it was a nice, clear shot of the wall between Danny’s head and Simon’s. I thought about how I could position myself so that I could get their faces better cen- tered on the screen as Danny encouraged violence and Simon got sucked up into the fantasy the way my brother did when his hero Zip spun a web of lies. 
“I’m in, Sarge,” Anda said. She armed the BFGs and pointed them at the cottage. 
“Boo-yah!” Lucy said. Her character notched an arrow. 
“Oh, Christ, he’s back,” Lucy said. Raymond’s avatar had snuck up behind them. 
he said, and his character set something down on the ground and backed away. Anda edged up on them. 
“Come on, it’s probably a booby-trap, we’ve got work to do,” Lucy said. 
They were photo-objects. She picked them up and then examined them. The first showed ranked little girls, fifty or more, in clean and simple t-shirts, skinny as anything, sitting at generic white-box PCs, hands on the keyboards. They were hollow-eyed and grim, and none of them older than she. 
The next showed a shantytown, shacks made of corrugated aluminum and trash, muddy trails between them, spraypainted graffiti, rude boys loitering, rubbish and carrier bags blowing. 
The next showed the inside of a shanty, three little girls and a little boy sitting together on a battered sofa, their mother serving them something white and indistinct on plastic plates. 
“Oh,” he said. “I have such respect for her people, you know. So in tune with nature all the time.” 
I wondered what Martinez would have thought of that. To be fair, I supposed mathematics was the greatest natural law of all. 
“The government doesn’t like her kind. I think that’s why she was in trouble. Maybe why she burned everything.” 
“Wait, what?” I said, my brain latching onto the one cogent piece of information. “She burned everything? What do you mean?” 
He poked his cane at the fire pit in the corner of the patio. “Night after night. I watched her do it. I thought, something’s gone wrong, good for you, you burn that evidence, you show them how it’s done. Are you her daughter?” 
“No,” I said again, and then wished I’d lied. “I’m, uh, a really good friend. When was this?” 
“Last week? Two weeks ago? Or was it longer...I get confused sometimes. What kind of trouble is she in?” 
“Big trouble,” I said absently, heading toward the fire pit. “Do you know what she was burning?” 
“Papers.” He coughed mightily, wheezing. “I asked her once, she said it was her life’s work. She must have been in some mighty big trouble.” 
He sighed heavily and folded the note back up to tuck in a pocket. “I’ll bring it to Sonya.” He turned to go, then came back and leaned on the table. “Do me a favor?” 
“I thought I was already doing you one,” I said, not entirely without bitterness. “Isn’t this whole job a favor?” 
He huffed out a breath. “Talk to Checker?” 
Fury clawed up in me, shockingly hot, clogging my head until my scalp prickled with it. 
Arthur twitched back. “Not about that, Russell. Not talking about you. I swear.” 
I clamped my jaw down on what I had been about to say. “What, then?” I growled through my teeth. 
Arthur hesitated, his fingers pressing against the laminated pine of the tabletop. “This thing with the Lancer. Was hard on him.” 
“It was hard on him?” I repeated. “Excuse me, was he shot at and locked up and also almost blown to pieces three separate times?” 
“He could use a friend, ’s all I’m saying.” He made a vague gesture and headed out the door. 
I turned and leaned my head against the wall. Arthur had too high expectations of me, as always. I wasn’t in any condition to be a friend to anyone. I’d never been very good at being a friend to anyone. 
We turned onto Market Street and stopped dead. The street was barricaded at every corner, the cross-streets reduced to a single lane, and parked down the whole length of Market Street were big, nondescript 18-wheelers like the one that had carried us, hooded, away from the ship's docks and to Chinatown. 
Each one had three steel steps leading down from the back and they buzzed with activity as soldiers, people in suits, and cops went in and out of them. The suits wore little badges on their lapels and the soldiers scanned them as they went in and out -- wireless authorization badges. As we walked past one, I got a look at it, and saw the familiar logo: Department of Homeland Security. The soldier saw me staring and stared back hard, glaring at me. 
I got the message and moved on. I peeled away from the gang at Van Ness. We clung to each other and cried and promised to call each other. 
The walk back to Potrero Hill has an easy route and a hard route, the latter taking you over some of the steepest hills in the city, the kind of thing that you see car chases on in action movies, with cars catching air as they soar over the zenith. I always take the hard way home. It's all residential streets, and the old Victorian houses they call "painted ladies" for their gaudy, elaborate paint-jobs, and front gardens with scented flowers and tall grasses. Housecats stare at you from hedges, and there are hardly any homeless. 
The child took her sewing and sat beside aunt Jane in the kitchen while aunt Miranda had the post of observation at the sitting-room window. Sometimes they would work on the side porch where the clematis and woodbine shaded them from the hot sun. To Rebecca the lengths of brown gingham were interminable. She made hard work of sewing, broke the thread, dropped her thimble into the syringa bushes, pricked her finger, wiped the perspiration from her forehead, could not match the checks, puckered the seams. She polished her needles to nothing, pushing them in and out of the emery strawberry, but they always squeaked. Still aunt Jane's patience held good, and some small measure of skill was creeping into Rebecca's fingers, fingers that held pencil, paint brush, and pen so cleverly and were so clumsy with the dainty little needle. 
When the first brown gingham frock was completed, the child seized what she thought an opportune moment and asked her aunt Miranda if she might have another color for the next one. 
“Valentine?” 
“Yes, Withnail?” 
“Thank you,” he said. “For the food. And the kiss. It was my very first.” 
“Mine too.” 
“The finest one, too.” 
She snorted and punched him in the shoulder. 
“Shut up, Withnail,” she said. 
“Yes, Comrade Hero,” he said. 
She let him kiss her, but only once. 
That night, anyway. 
He strolled over to the window and looked out. "The women come to me for my blessing whenever they hope to bear a child. They know that if they wish, I can cause their first child to be a descendant of their white deity Kukulkan. For them it is a sacred event." 
"They believe that?" It was sickening. I felt a knot grow­ing in my stomach, even as my hallucinations flashed ever bolder, bright rainbows that flitted about the room, then wound themselves around me. 
"A great philosopher once said, All religions are true.' Who are we to judge?" He paused. "Let me try and explain something. Those patterns you see the women weaving on the fabrics down in Baalum, those patterns are actually just like the designs on that thousand-year-old pyramid. But though that pyramid had been buried and lost to them for so many years, they still made the designs all those years, be­cause those symbols are a road map of their unseen world. Not the forest here where we are now, but their real world, where the gods dwell who rule the lightning bolts, the ger­mination of corn." He was at the door, preparing to leave, but he paused. "They also understand the . . . special infants who come are miracles that must be returned. They receive but they also must give. Now they wish you to be part of that." 
probably seven or eight, dark hair and pale, sickly complexion, peers up at him through lidded eyes. 
"You like Captain Shadow?" 
"Duh," Ray shoots back. "Which one is this?" 
"The one where Carok tries to blow up the colony's shield generator by sneaking up through the caves." 
Ray makes a sour face, rolls his eyes. "Ugh. After Shadow added Godara Jengo to the crew? I hate him. He's such a loser, and he's not very funny. " 
A dozen synchronized collections of breath. They know exactly what he's talking about. Jengo appeared in the third or fourth season, after some network suit decided Shadow needed a humorous sidekick to kick up the market share. 
"What's your name?" the boy asks. 
"Ray." 
The kid holds out his hand, a solemnly adult gesture. Ray shakes with him. "My name's John Robert. John Robert Rose. Do you want to watch with us?" 
Ray glances at Emma, rolls his shoulders. It isn't exactly what he was expecting, but he can think of worse ways to pass an hour. "It's Captain Shadow." 
> Just curious. 
I was getting a bad vibe off her. She was clearly more than just curious. Call it paranoia. I logged off and shut down my Xbox. 
Dad looked at me over the table the next morning and said, "It looks like it's going to get better, at least." He handed me a copy of the Chronicle open to the third page. 
> A Department of Homeland Security spokesman has confirmed that the San Francisco office has requested a 300 percent budget and personnel increase from DC. 
What? 
> Major General Graeme Sutherland, the commanding officer for Northern California DHS operations, confirmed the request at a press conference yesterday, noting that a spike in suspicious activity in the Bay Area prompted the request. "We are tracking a spike in underground chatter and activity and believe that saboteurs are deliberately manufacturing false security alerts to undermine our efforts." 
My eyes crossed. No freaking way. 
> "These false alarms are potentially 'radar chaff' intended to disguise real attacks. The only effective way of combatting them is to step up staffing and analyst levels so that we can fully investigate every lead." 
Chloe watched them keenly from her perch behind the counter. After seventy-some years perching on a stool, she'd finally done away with it. The exoskeleton she'd been fitted for on her 90th birthday would lock very handily into a seated position that took all the pressure off her bum and knees and hips. It was all rather glorious. 
Kids came into the store every day now, and in ever-increasing numbers. She flicked her eyes sideways and menued over to her graph of young people in the shop over time, warming herself on the upward trend. 
It was Arthur's 110th birthday today, the mad old sod, and he was meant to be coming into the shop for one of his rare tours of inspection. That had the staff all a-twitter. He was something of a legend, the man who'd started the distributorship that put small, carefully curated handsful of books into the few retailers across the land who'd let young people in. 
"How long have you known him, then?" Marcel, her store manager, was only a few years older than the kids who ghosted past her counter, playing some weird round of their game, listening to cues only they could hear, heads all cocked identically. 
“Well, the offer is open if the weather gets worse,” Monica said, leaving off the usual lecture about how dangerous it was to ride a bike in the winter. She was getting resigned to it. 
When I finally went to bed, I peered out to see if the cop was still there. He wasn’t, and I began to wonder if I’d imagined the whole thing. 
I spent most of the next morning fixing up the old phone for Nikko, which turned out to be harder than I thought. Technology always seems to know when you’re in a hurry, because that’s when everything goes wrong. I finally got Convo installed and prepaid a month’s worth of service with a small carrier that was recommended by Group members because the company understood privacy issues and even fought a subpoena for cus- tomer data and...  was also more complicated than I expected. 
I’d called her first thing in the morning. “In ten minutes I need to leave for a meeting,” she told me in her starchy old-lady voice. 
I pictured her in her messy kitchen, holding the handset to the old fashioned phone attached to the wall, the spiral cord getting tan- gled in her falling-down hairdo. “I’m afraid I have no news about your brother.” 
Amazing. Becker was not kidding when he said these kids were bright. 
But they liked Captain Shadow, so they couldn't be too freakish— though he may very well have overassessed the level of esteem in which they held him. They probably just thought he was an idiot. 
"Yes, they are precocious, Mr. Marlowe." 
Amah stands in the doorway, leaning on the lintel, tattooed and hideous. She's not any easier to look at the second time around. "I didn't mean to get them excited right before bed." 
"Precocious children need very little excuse to excite themselves in my experience, but it wasn't poorly attempted, Mr. Marlowe. Merely a poor execution. You haven't spent much time around children I take it." 
"Just my brother, ma'am." Probably not the best source of precedent. 
"Your brother must be longsuffering." 
"Longsuffering or dimwitted. I was never certain which. " 
She ventures into the room, picking her way around the rows of desks until she's standing nearer to them. 
She's taller than he expected, almost as tall as he is. Her bulk is not fat, her body not neglected, but wide and sinewy, strong. 
She shook her head. “But I bet he had plenty to tell you , didn’t he? What a bitch I am, making and then leaving him, a fickle woman who doesn’t know her own mind.” 
Robbie didn’t say anything. 
“Let’s see, what else?” She was pacing now, her voice hot and choked, unfamiliar sounds coming from Janet’s voicebox. “He told you I was a pervert, didn’t he? Queer for his kind. Incest and bestiality in the rarified heights of the noosphere.” 
Robbie felt helpless. This human was clearly experiencing a lot of pain, and it seemed like he’d caused it. 
“Please don’t cry,” he said. “Please?” 
She looked up at him, tears streaming down her cheeks. “Why the fuck not ? I thought it would be different once I ascended. I thought I’d be better once I was in the sky, infinite and immortal. But I’m the same Kate Eltham I was in 2019, a loser that couldn’t meet a guy to save my life, spent all my time cybering losers in moggs, and only got the upload once they made it a charity thing. I’m gonna spend the rest of eternity like that, you know it? How’d you like to spend the whole of the universe being a, a, a nobody ?” 
Those thoughts, those fears, had utterly gone from her now, but the memory of them was horrible. She shuddered at the memory of the hours she had spent locked in her room, with that monstrous dread of madness in her heart. Thank God, it had passed now! She walked along the interminable empty road, her old self again, but graver and sterner than she had ever been before in her life. 
“I’ve got to understand all this,” she said to herself. “I’ve got to know what’s been the matter with me. That breakdown at the Queltons’, that awful time yesterday afternoon, and this! I suppose I’ve been walking in my sleep. I never did before. Something’s gone wrong with my nerves, terribly wrong; and I’ve got to find out why.” 
She quickened her pace a little, because a trace of the old panic fear had stirred in her. 
“It’s over!” she thought. “I’ll never imagine such a thing again; but I wonder if I’ll ever feel quite sure of myself again!” 
For all her valiant efforts, tears came into her eyes. She had always been so proudly and honestly sure of herself, she had always trusted herself, and now—now she knew how weak, how untrustworthy she could be. Now she would always have that knowledge, and would fear that the weakness might come again. 
“It’s real cozy here,” said Mrs. Royce, “on a night like this. I’m sorry the dining room’s so kind of chilly.” 
“Oh, can’t we have supper here, by the fire?” cried Lexy. “Please! We’ll promise not to get any crumbs on your nice carpet, Mrs. Royce!” 
“I guess you can,” replied the landlady benevolently. 
And so it happened that the ancient magic of fire was invoked in Lexy’s behalf. Probably, if she and Captain Grey had had their supper in the chilly dining room, they would have been a little chilly, too, and more cautious. They might not have said all that they did say. 
It was an excellent supper, and Captain Grey and Lexy thoroughly appreciated it. They ate with healthy appetites, and they talked. Mrs. Royce, from the kitchen, heard their cheerful, friendly voices, and their laughter, and she didn’t for one moment believe that they had never met before. Listening to them, she wore that benevolent smile once more, and felt sure that she had encountered a very charming little romance. 
“I won’t!” My giggling threatened to get out of control as I hur- ried through the kitchen into the little bathroom. I locked myself on in and sat on the toilet, shaking. In the other room I heard his slurring sing-song voice, “Hey, getting lonely out here.” 
“Just a minute,” I called out, staring at the door. It was a flimsy little lock. I remembered how strong his hands had felt. One good pull and he would be able to yank it open. There was a window over the toilet, but it was tiny, much too small for me to climb through. 
I remembered to switch off the camera, finally, and looked around for a weapon. There was a can of Axe I could spray into his eyes. If I broke the spotty mirror over the sink, I might be able to pull out a shard to stab him with. I could probably find a knife in the kitchen but I was too scared to unlock the door. 
“Baaaaybee . . . “ His blurry voice faded. I held the spray can so tight my hand hurt, listening, half expecting him to wrench the door open and grab me. I waited. Then I waited some more. 
When I glanced around the office, I noticed a ring of keys on the desk. Could he have forgotten them? 
More important, would I blow everything if he caught me snooping? In spite of his attempt at a cool veneer, he might go ballistic. 
I made a snap decision. Take the chance and give them a try. 
My hands were so moist I had trouble holding the slippery keys, but finally I managed to shove in the first one. It went in, but nothing would turn. 
Come on. I managed to wiggle the next one in, my hand trembling now, but again the knob wouldn't budge. Footsteps outside marched up to the door and I stopped breathing, but then they moved on. 
Hurry. I was rapidly losing hope when the fifth one slipped in and the knob turned. Yes! 
Taking a deep breath and working on a story in case Alex Goddard walked in, I clicked the lock and eased the door inward just enough to look inside. 
Hello, what's this? The space was a fully equipped medical research lab. The lights were off, but like the office, it was illuminated by the glow of several CRT screens stationed above a long lab bench. There also was a large machine, probably a gas chromatograph, with its own screen, flanked by rows of test tubes. Finally, there was a large electronic microscope complete with video screen. 
Someone had torn the place apart. Computers had been rent open willy-nilly, every hard drive in the place yanked, and I saw a number of loose adapters in empty spaces where laptops had probably sat. All the monitors were dark, and one LCD was smashed, the cracks spider-webbing outward from where something very hard had struck it. Something like a crowbar or a tire iron. 
I swallowed. 
Near the back, soot blackened the desktop in several places, and metal frames twisted where they had been on the periphery of small explosions. I bent to look more closely in the dim light. A dark brown smear and smudged handprint told their own story. 
Arthur edged into the room behind me. “Oh, Lord,” he whispered. “Oh my God...” 
“Let’s check the house,” I said. 
The back door of the house was still locked, so I kicked it open, ignoring the twinge from my chest wound. Someone had beaten us here, as well: multiple black bootprints tracked through every room, and drawers were upended and furniture overturned in a search that had as little regard for Checker’s living space as Steve’s men had shown for Courtney’s. 
“You told me everything,” she breathed, more to herself than to me. “Of course you told me everything. Except what you didn’t know yourself. Hidden. So cunningly hidden, even from you.” 
“What are you talking about?” I whispered. 
“Drop the gun,” she said. 
I dropped the gun. 
She reached out a hand, almost touching my face but not quite. “It’s brilliant work,” she said. “Seamless. It had to be one of us. So much makes sense now. Your relationship with Sonrio. Why you’re more resistant to me. All your...abilities.” 
“Tell me what the hell you’re talking about,” I demanded, but my voice was a croak, with no strength in it. 
Dawna ignored me. “I know where you’re from,” she said, almost wonderingly. “I wonder what would happen if you knew. If you remembered.” 
Remembered what? 
Dawna smiled, a predatory showing of teeth. “Let us start with an easy one. Sonrio. The degree to which you trust him is frankly insane. Where did you meet him?” She spoke as if she already knew the answer. 
“He saved me,” I said through stiff lips. Everything was starting to go off-balance, the world canting like it wanted to make me seasick, the numbers that always surrounded me bleeding together in a nonsensical, blurred mass. 
And then - the weirdest thing. Rumors started that somebody was behind the three girls’ fall from power. A sophomore tweeted that somebody should do the same thing at their school. A bunch of people retweeted and commented about situations that they wish could be fixed. It turned into a hashtag and people started saying they’d pay good money for #secretavenger to come and kick butt at their school. 
So that’s how my business got started. It was pretty simple to set things up: I rented a box at the post office and got an extra phone number so I could have an anonymous domain registra- tion, set up a secure email account, worked out a dead drop sys- tem for exchanging information using USB drives, got an untraceable PayPal account - and I was in business. 
Honestly, if I was one of those Silicon Valley types, I could have made it into a successful company and gotten rich. Or pos- sibly landed in jail. But I didn’t want to run into legal trouble or take a job that meant that I would be hurting someone who didn’t deserve it, just for money. 
Becker snaps back, "Do you even know what tonight is?" 
"I understand your coverage is thin because of crowd control." 
"Thin? I've got every sec-o on the ship on duty already just to keep the crew from committing rape with drunken female passengers desperate to be seduced before they hit the couches." 
Ray only shrugs. "Then call out the Marines. I don't care how you handle it, but I need something resembling a command post here and I need something resembling a deck evacuation below or I strongly suspect you're going to find a large portion of your crew has gone missing come morning. "  Becker scrubs savagely at his cheeks, a man on the edge of a migraine. "It's going to take me a few minutes to get my people rounded up. Half an hour to have a command post up and running." 
Ray takes two steps to his left and kicks the top off a footlocker. He digs around for a few moments and comes up with a portable comm unit like the ones he, Kilgore and Rodriguez are wearing. He pitches it at Becker. 
When Marcelina translated, the woman smiled and nod­ded. 
Then the blond-haired Tz'ac Tzotz started to sniffle, so I kissed him gently, turned, and took the woman's hand again. There was nothing else I could do. 
Tz'ac Tzotz was Sarah incarnate. This was no hallucina­tion. He had her special blue eyes and her steep cheeks, her high brow. I was holding her child. 
"They are sent from Kukulkan," Marcelina was saying, "the white god of the plumed serpent. Then there's the cere­mony on the pyramid and they go back." 
The woman was staring at me, seemingly awestruck. Then she pointed at Tz'ac Tzotz and at me, saying something to Marcelina. Finally the woman bowed her head to me with great reverence. 
"She says he looks so much like you," Marcelina ex­plained. "You are surely the special one. The new bride." 
I was still speechless, but then I noticed the baby had a little silver jaguar amulet tied around his wrist with a silken string, and on the back—as on Kevin's and Rachel's—were rows of lines and dots. 
Her tooth tingled. The one that had been knocked out in the trench and re-sprouted after the siege. Then she recognized him. 
“ Withnail? ” 
He hopped in place. “Valentine! You remembered!” 
She put her hand to her breast and staggered back dramatically, hamming it up. He was still very handsome, and she’d never forgotten her first kiss. 
“What the hell are you doing here?” 
“I have a layover,” he said. “Tokyo tomorrow. But I wanted to stop and see the place—” 
“Remember the dead?” she said. He had been the enemy, after all. How many of her countrymen had he shot? 
“Remember,” he said. “Remember everything.” 
How many of his comrades had died on the day the death rained from the sky? Surely they had died in great number on that day. 
The woods were full of her dead. Mata was there. And there was the movie tonight. She touched the medal on her lapel. He had no medal. The soldiers who’d persecuted the siege received no medals. 
“You’re here until when?” 
“Tomorrow,” he said, “first thing.” 
“What’s up?” I asked. 
“Trouble.” Tresting hesitated and glanced at Finch before continuing, but probably decided that this guy had enough connections to find out everything on his own anyway. “Turns out the neighbors ain’t seen our hostage dance. The cops who was here earlier got back to the station and saw composites of two people suspected in a brutal multiple homicide at an office building. Happened they recalled noticing two suspicious characters who looked mighty similar to the sketches in a truck outside an address they just reported to. Told you not to flinch,” he added to me. 
“Wait, so this is my fault, Mr. Let’s Report Everything to the Proper Authorities?” 
He shot me an expression of thinly veiled disgust. “Good news is they ain’t ID’d us, just got composites from the lobby guy at the building.” He turned to Leena. “Doc...” 
“I told your new friend already, I won’t tell anyone anything.” She sounded exhausted. “Just make this go away, please.” 
He hesitated, then nodded. I supposed there wasn’t much else he could do but trust her. “Guess we better get while the getting’s good,” he said to Finch and me. “They going to find out you’re not a real FBI agent and come back?” 
“How many are there of you?” he asked, not wanting to know the answer. 
“I don’t know exactly,” she said. 
“3,422,” Benny said. “This morning it was 3,423.” 
Arturo rocked back in his boots and bit his lip hard enough to draw blood. 
“Um,” Natalie said. “More of me to love?” 
He barked a laugh, and Natalie smiled and reached for him. He leaned back toward the jet, then stopped, defeated. Where would he go? He let her warm hand take his, and a moment later, Ada took her other hand and they stood facing each other, breathing in their smells. 
“I’ve gotten you your own place,” she said as she led them across the tarmac. “It’s close to where I live, but far enough for you to have privacy.” 
“What will I do here?” he said. “Do they have coppers in Eurasia?” 
“Not really,” Natalie said. 
“It’s all robots?” 
“No, there’s not any crime.” 
“Oh.” 
Arturo put one foot in front of the other, not sure if the ground was actually spongy or if that was jetlag. Around him, the alien smells of Beijing and the robots that were a million times smarter than he. To his right, his wife, one of 3,422 versions of her. 
Rebecca had been seated on a stool very near to the edge of the porch, and at this remark she made a sudden movement, tipped over, and disappeared into a clump of lilac bushes. It was a very short distance, fortunately, and the amused capitalist picked her up, set her on her feet, and brushed her off. "You should never seem surprised when you have taken a large order," said he; "you ought to have replied 'Can't you make it three hundred and fifty?' instead of capsizing in that unbusinesslike way." 
"Oh, I could never say anything like that!" exclaimed Rebecca, who was blushing crimson at her awkward fall. "But it doesn't seem right for you to buy so much. Are you sure you can afford it?" 
"If I can't, I'll save on something else," returned the jocose philanthropist. 
"What if your aunt shouldn't like the kind of soap?" queried Rebecca nervously. 
"Then there's something wrong with your aunt!" 
"Or with me," laughed Rebecca. 
"What is your name, young lady?" 
"Rebecca Rowena Randall, sir." 
Of course, I signed, and signed and signed. 
My jeans and t-shirt were back in my cell, laundered and folded. They smelled of detergent. I put them on and washed my face and sat on my cot and stared at the wall. They'd taken everything from me. First my privacy, then my dignity. I'd been ready to sign anything. I would have signed a confession that said I'd assassinated Abraham Lincoln. 
I tried to cry, but it was like my eyes were dry, out of tears. 
They got me again. A guard approached me with a hood, like the hood I'd been put in when they picked us up, whenever that was, days ago, weeks ago. 
The hood went over my head and cinched tight at my neck. I was in total darkness and the air was stifling and stale. I was raised to my feet and walked down corridors, up stairs, on gravel. Up a gangplank. On a ship's steel deck. My hands were chained behind me, to a railing. I knelt on the deck and listened to the thrum of the diesel engines. 
The ship moved. A hint of salt air made its way into the hood. It was drizzling and my clothes were heavy with water. I was outside, even if my head was in a bag. I was outside, in the world, moments from my freedom. 
We hurried into the complex. With the personnel all concentrated elsewhere, this end of the base was mostly deserted. Only one young man in fatigues tried to challenge us, running forward through the dark and shouting; I pulled my otherwise useless phone out of my pocket and threw it. He collapsed to the pavement as if his strings had been cut. 
Arthur’s expression tightened. 
“What? He’s not dead,” I snapped. 
We hurried toward one of the central buildings, a looming white-and-glass edifice that probably housed offices. I took a moment to get my bearings, turning toward the southeast. Yes, this was the one. Perfect. 
“Let’s split up,” I said to Arthur. I gestured toward the far-off flashes of light and movement. “Whatever communications equipment they’ve got is probably that way somewhere, where all the people are. Go do your PI thing, figure out if they’ve got a line to the outside world and how we can get access.” 
He hesitated, and I literally held my breath. 
“Where are you going to be?” 
"Hey, Lawrence, fancy meeting you here!" He shook Lawrence's hand and gave him a wry, you-and-me-in-it-together smile. "How's the vision quest coming?" 
"Huh?" 
"The Anomaly -- that's what you're chasing, aren't you? It's your little rite of passage. My sister had one last year. Figured out that some guy who travelled from Fort Worth to Portland, Oregon, every week was actually a fictional construct invented by cargo smugglers who used his seat to plant a series of mules running heroin and cash. She was so proud afterwards that I couldn't get her to shut up about it. You had the holy fire the other night when I saw you." 
Lawrence felt himself blushing. "It's not really 'holy' -- all that religious stuff, it's just a metaphor. We're not really spiritual." 
"Oh, the distinction between the spiritual and the material is pretty arbitrary anyway. Don't worry, I don't think you're a cultist or anything. No more than any of us, anyway. So, how's it going?" 
"I think it's over," he said. "Dead end. Maybe I'll get an easier Anomaly next time." 
She wished she had another scrying scroll in inventory so she could get a look inside the cottage before she beat its door in, but she was fresh out of scrolls and just about everything else. 
She kicked the door in and her fingers danced. She’d killed four of her adversaries before she even noticed that they weren’t fighting back. 
In fact, they were generic avatars, maybe even non-player characters. They moved like total noobs, milling around in the little cottage. Around them were heaps of shirts, thousands and thousands of them. A couple of the noobs were sitting in the back, incredibly, still crafting more shirts, ignoring the swordswoman who’d just butchered four of their companions. 
She took a careful look at all the avatars in the room. None of them were armed. Tentatively, she walked up to one of the players and cut his head off. The player next to him moved clumsily to one side and she followed him. 
“Are you a player or a bot?” she typed. 
The avatar did nothing. She killed it. 
He had a point. Of course, considering what we knew of Pithica, this was probably too big for the cops, too. 
We drove in silence almost all the way back. When Tresting found a space on the street a few blocks away from his office, he yanked the truck over into it, shifting gears so hard my teeth rattled. As he turned off the engine I reached for the door handle, but Tresting’s voice stopped me. 
“Russell.” 
“Yeah?” 
He made no move to get out. “Been thinking. This wasn’t Pithica. Not their style. And they wouldn’t do this to their own.” 
“New player, then?” I thought of Anton’s garage, of the men in dark suits at Courtney’s place. I saw the massacre in the office building again, my mind skittering away from the details. Maybe this mess had reached the point where I should throw in with Tresting for real, share everything. I opened my mouth. 
Tresting slammed the heels of his hands against the steering wheel. “ Dammit, Russell!” 
I bit back on my other intel. “What?” 
The look he shot me was positively poisonous, for no reason I could fathom. 
“What? Hey, whoa, trick question!” 
“No,” I said. “It’s not.” 
Checker frowned, considering. “You’re right,” he said finally. “You think you should always say ‘no,’ to that, don’t you? The saying? You say no, the ends don’t justify the means. Except—when you’re actually faced with the choice—” 
“We say they have no right,” I said softly. “Except maybe they do. The math...” Dawna’s words came back to me, about the balance of more innocent lives saved at the expense of so few. The numbers agreed with Pithica, no question. The math was on their side. 
But what if I was only having that thought because of Dawna’s influence? 
But what if I only wanted to take her down because I wanted to be positive she hadn’t influenced me, so I was overcompensating—at the expense of innocent people? 
But what if she wanted me to think that? 
My head pounded. 
“I’m not going to have a clear conscience no matter which way we choose,” said Checker. He took off his glasses and leaned back, rubbing his eyes. “What about you? Still think we should go ahead with this?” 
Maybe the reason had something to do with how she looked. I felt like I was seeing a specter. 
"Thank God you're here," she blurted out, striding up. She was actually shaking, and I could tell she'd been crying. Nothing like the gutsy woman I'd seen a few days earlier. "I kept getting your machine, but I thought maybe you were hiding." 
I looked at her, and forgot all about my own issues. It was hard to remember ever seeing a human being in such distress, except for Sarah. 
"Why would I be hiding?" I was taking out the Betacam bag and closing my car door, hoping to seem normal and professional. 
"They called me about six o'clock tonight. Children of Light." She could barely get the words out. "They'd seen my interview with you. How did they get it?" 
I looked down at the snowy—make that slushy—street and felt a chill go through me, followed immediately by an­ger. Ramos, that bastard. 
"They . . . Somebody took a copy this morning." Stated like that, it sounded pretty lame. "I'm so sorry—" 
Like Leon. That's why they all met with him. He'd unwittingly stepped into one of the agency's top spots, thanks to Ria, one of the power-broker seats that everyone else yearned to fill. The fact that he had no idea how he'd got there or what to do with it didn't surprise anyone. To a one, his colleagues at Ate regarded everything to do with the vat monsters as an absolute, unknowable crapshoot, as predictable as a meteor strike. 
No wonder they all stayed away from the office. 
Ria met him in a different pair of jeans, these ones worn and patched at the knees. She had on a loose, flowing silk shirt that was frayed around the seams, and had tied her hair back with a kerchief that had faded to a non-color that was like the ancient New York sidewalk outside Ate's office. He felt the calluses on her hand when they shook. 
"You look like you're ready to do some gardening," he said. 
"My shift at the club," she said. "I'll be trimming the lime trees and tending the mint patch and the cucumber frames all afternoon." She smiled and stopped him with a gesture. She bent down and plucked a blade of greenery from the untidy trail-edge. They were in Central Park, in one of the places where it felt like a primeval forest instead of an artful garden razed and built in the middle of the city. She uncapped her water bottle and poured water over the herb -- it looked like a blade of grass -- rubbing it between her forefinger and thumb to scrub at it. Then she tore it in two and handed him one piece, held the other to her nose, then ate it, nibbling and making her nose wrinkle like a rabbit's. He followed suit. Lemon, delicious and tangy. 
“But it didn’t.” He was making me tired, and my whole body ached. “You said something about food,” I reminded him, even though I wasn’t hungry. “I could get behind that.” 
Arthur hurried off to make me some soup, and I fell back to sleep. 
When I finally woke again I was starving, but Arthur wasn’t in his usual spot next to me. I could hear his voice, though; I looked over to see him on the other side of the room, leaving a quiet but intense voicemail for someone. 
I pushed myself up a few inches and looked around. I was in a spacious studio apartment, and not one I recognized; it must have been Arthur’s or Rio’s. An IV stand stood beside my bed, with a long clear tube that wound around until it ended in a catheter taped into the back of my hand. On the way it passed over a crumpled pillow and blanket on the floor—someone had been sleeping close enough to keep an eye on me. Probably Arthur. Jesus. 
The man in question hung up the phone and saw I was awake. “Hey. You’re looking better.” 
The wizard had a face that looked like he spent a lot of time laughing with it, and so even when he looked scared, he also looked like he was laughing. He held up his hands. “It wasn’t my idea. That’s just the programming. If the printer thinks you need a bra, it makes a bra.” 
Leeza had a bra, though Valentine wasn’t convinced she needed it. But she had noticed a certain uncomfortable jiggling weight climbing the stairs, hadn’t she? Running? She hadn’t looked in the mirror in—Well, since the siege, practically. 
“There’s a bathroom there to change into,” he said. 
His bathroom was clean and neat and there were six toothbrushes beside the sink in a holder. 
“Who else lives here?” she said, coming out in her new clothes (the bra felt really weird). 
“I have a lot of friends who come and see me now and again. I hope you’ll come back.” 
“How come your place is like the war never happened?” 
“I’m the wizard, that’s why,” he said. “I can make magic.” 
His robots tied up her extra clothes in waterproof grip sheets for her, then helped her into a warm slicker with a hood. “Tell your mother that you met someone from the city who fed you and gave you a change of clothes,” he said, holding open the door. He’d explained to her where to go from there to get out to the old shopping street and from there she could manage on her own, especially since he’d given her one of his little pea-lights to carry with her. 
"It was no accident," Leon said. "Police?" It was impossible not to fall into Brautigan's telegraphed speech-style. That was a persuasion thing, too, he knew. Once you talked like him, you'd sympathize with him. And vice-versa, of course. They were converging on a single identity. Bonding. It was intense, like make-up sex for co-workers. 
"He's a sovereign...  island, one of those little Baltic countries. On the other side of the international vowel line. Mxlplx or something." 
"Dead people become corporations. They get managed by boards of directors who act predictably, if not rationally. Living people, they're flamboyant . Seismic. Unpredictable. But. On the other hand." He waggled his eyebrows. 
"On the other hand, they buy things." 
"Once in a very long while, they do." 
Leon's life was all about discipline. He'd heard a weight-loss guru once explain that the key to maintaining a slim figure was to really "listen to your body" and only eat until it signaled that it was full. Leon had listened to his body. It wanted three entire pepperoni and mushroom pizzas every single day, plus a rather large...  kind you could make in your kitchen with an antique Hamilton Beech machine in avocado-colored plastic, served up in a tall red anodized aluminum cup. Leon's body was extremely verbose on what it wanted him to shovel into it. 
“It means that she’s been there, or that she’s there now,” Lexy went on. “It’s time we found out. Of course, I know how you feel about Dr. Quelton. He’s your sister’s husband, and you didn’t want—” 
“It doesn’t make much difference now,” he said. “If you’ll wait a day or so, she—” 
He turned away abruptly, and took out his cigarette case. 
“What do you mean?” cried Lexy. 
“It won’t be long,” he said quietly. “She—my sister—he says it won’t be more than twenty-four hours, at the most.” 
“Oh, no! It can’t be! Captain Grey, don’t believe him!” 
“I tried not to,” he said. “I—well, we had a bit of a row, and I made him let me bring in another doctor from the village here. He said the same thing.” 
“What did the doctor say it was?” asked Houseman. 
Captain Grey seemed to find some difficulty in lighting his cigarette; but when he had done so, and had drawn in a deep breath, he turned back toward Lexy with a smile that startled her. She had never imagined he could look like...  lighting his dark face with a sort of savage mirth. 
“Not in this rain,” the doctor protested, “and in your overwrought condition.” 
“I must!” She got up, the tears still streaming down her cheeks. “I must!” she said wildly. “Let me go! Please let me go!” 
The doctor turned to Captain Grey. In the midst of her unutterable misery and confusion, Lexy still heard and understood what he was saying. 
“In a case of hysteria—better to humor her—the exercise and the fresh air may help her.” 
The doctor’s wife helped Lexy with her hat and coat. She was very gentle, very kind, and genuinely concerned for her unhappy little guest. Lexy remembered afterward that Mrs. Quelton kissed her; but at the moment nothing mattered except to get away, to get out of that house into the fresh air. 
Without one backward glance she set off at a furious pace, splashing through the puddles, almost running. Captain Grey kept easily by her side with his long, lithe stride. Now and then he spoke to her, but she could not trust herself to answer just yet. The storm within her was subsiding. From time to time a sob broke from her, but the tears had stopped. 
Once everyone was done, Jolu went to make a key, and then turned away, giving me a sheepish grin. I was past my anger with him, though. He was doing what he had to do. I knew that no matter what he said, he'd always be there for me. And we'd been through the DHS jail together. Van too. No matter what, that would bind us together forever. 
I did my key and did the perp-walk around the gang, letting everyone snap a pic. Then I climbed up on the high spot I'd spoken from earlier and called for everyone's attention. 
"So a lot of you have noted that there's a vital flaw in this procedure: what if this laptop can't be trusted? What if it's secretly recording our instructions? What if it's spying on us? What if Jose-Luis and I can't be trusted?" 
More good-natured chuckles. A little warmer than before, more beery. 
"I mean it," I said. "If we were on the wrong side, this could get all of us -- all of you -- into a heap of trouble. Jail, maybe." 
The chuckles turned more nervous. 
"So that's why I'm going to do this," I said, and picked up a hammer I'd brought from my Dad's toolkit. I set the laptop down beside me on the rock and swung the hammer, Jolu following the swing with his keychain light. Crash -- I'd always dreamt of killing a laptop with a hammer, and here I was doing it. It felt pornographically good. And bad. 
Did he say "special"? Marcelina said I was . . . like Sarah . . . 
Now his eyes are boring in and I'm thinking of the Chi­nese . . . Am I human, dreaming I'm a butterfly, or am I a butterfly dreaming I'm human? 
As he moves over me, the rest of his butterfly form dis­appears and he's become a lithe jaguar whose lips are touch­ing mine. The sheet over me melts into my skin as the soft spotted fur of his underbelly presses onto me. And his face has turned even more feline and sensuous, with dark eyes that look directly through me. I can feel his whiskers against me as he sniffs down my body,  then explores my groin with his probing tongue. 
Before I realize what's happening, his thighs press against mine and he knowingly insinuates himself into me. It all happens so naturally and effortlessly I scarcely . . . I see only an intense twitch of his animal ears, erect and directed toward me, as he enfolds me completely, his hot male breath urgent. As he grinds his thighs against mine, he emits growls, low in his throat, then nips lightly and lovingly at my cheek, his pale fangs benign and delicious. 
“How do I know you’ll be fair?” I demanded, wondering if I was pushing too hard. 
“I could always shoot you now,” he said languidly. “On the other hand, I’m always fair to those who join me.” 
Huh. There was a very slight possibility here that he actually would want to recruit me permanently and not kill me no matter what. Too bad my allergy to authority kept me from being tempted. 
The Lancer sat back, self-satisfied, clacking his meditation balls. 
We drove north, and north, and after many miles and a few stops we pulled up among some overgrown concrete ruins on a bluff overlooking the Pacific. One of the men uncuffed me from the door and hustled me out with them, not overly roughly. Perhaps he was being respectful of the implication that I might someday be one of them. 
The Lancer levered himself out after us. He was a tall man, and large-framed, with a slight limp that he used his walking stick to mitigate. “Deliver,” he said to me factually, “or we’ll kill you.” 
“Okay,” I said, looking around. This place must have been an old collection of war bunkers, or...or something. I wasn’t sure. 
"Well, she's going there, and they're expecting her. Will you keep an eye on her, please? If she can get out anywhere and get with folks, or get anybody in to keep her company, she'll do it. Good-by, Rebecca; try not to get into any mischief, and sit quiet, so you'll look neat an' nice when you get there. Don't be any trouble to Mr. Cobb.—You see, she's kind of excited.—We came on the cars from Temperance yesterday, slept all night at my cousin's, and drove from her house—eight miles it is—this morning." 
"Good-by, mother, don't worry; you know it isn't as if I hadn't traveled before." 
The woman gave a short sardonic laugh and said in an explanatory way to Mr. Cobb, "She's been to Wareham and stayed over night; that isn't much to be journey-proud on!" 
"It WAS TRAVELING, mother," said the child eagerly and willfully. "It was leaving the farm, and putting up lunch in a basket, and a little riding and a little steam cars, and we carried our nightgowns." 
"Don't tell the whole village about it, if we did," said the mother, interrupting the reminiscences of this experienced voyager. "Haven't I told you before," she whispered, in a last attempt at discipline, "that you shouldn't talk about night gowns and stockings and—things like that, in a loud tone of voice, and especially when there's men folks round?" 
But Lexy remembered her last glimpse of Dr. Quelton, lying dead across the coffin of the woman he had robbed. Who would ever know, who was to judge now, what might have been in his warped and utterly solitary heart? 
“He told me,” Caroline went on, “that he had never felt any great interest in me. A mediocre mind, he said I had. He told me he had never so much as touched my finger tips. He sat there, talking so calmly! He said he had kept me under the influence of some drug that made my mind suggestible—I think that’s the word. He meant that whoever took that drug would believe anything, accept anything. He had told me I was Muriel Quelton, and I believed I was. Then he told me to dye my hair, and to make up my face with things he gave me. He told me I was ill and tired and growing old, and I felt so. Lexy, he said that even without that, without making the least change in my appearance, no one would have known me, because my mind was changed. He said there was no disguise in the world like that. Was it true, Lexy? Was I old, and—and horrible to every one?” 
Maybe I could warn him to take the whole fucking DHS with him. 
Or, fuck that, maybe I could still clean up my own mess. Martinez had been hiding effectively from the NSA, and she’d be continuing to do so, but I knew where she was going to be, so I had a leg up on everyone else. I didn’t have to call in Arthur and Checker. Which was good, because I would’ve preferred shivving myself in the eye to phoning them. 
And I should be able to beat the Lancer, too, for the same reasons. Unless he’d been decoding our messages somehow... 
Of course, even if I got to Martinez first, my original plan was shot. The Lancer would be watching for her face on every camera. If I tried to spirit her away to my basement prison, with each block I told her to travel, I’d be putting her in more and more likelihood of being in the middle of a firefight or being snatched by a mathematical zealot who had no moral compunction at all about prying her proof from her. 
In other words, exactly what you’ve been planning on doing? 
The appointment had taken all weekend, including a Sun­day brunch, to set up, but by that time I was sure this second mother would be perfect. She was a tall, willowy woman, forty-three, who had let her hair start going to gray. Honesty, it was right there in her pale brown eyes. She wrote children's books, had never married—she now believed she never would—and had decided to adopt a child because she had a lot of extra love she felt was going to waste. Different from Carly Grove, maybe, but not in the matter of strength, and fearless independence. 
We arrived around ten A.M. to discover her apartment was in one of those sprawling prewar West Side monoliths, thick plaster walls and a rabbit's warren of halls and foyers, legacy of an age before "lofts" and open spaces. Terribly cramped for shooting. But Paula agreed to let the blue-jeaned crew move her old, overstuffed couch out of the living room, along with the piles of books that lined the walls. 
Another issue was makeup. At first Paula insisted she didn't want any. Never wore it, it was deceitful, and she didn't want to appear on camera looking like Barbie. (Small chance of that, I thought. A little war paint now and then might help your chances of landing a father for this child.) Eventually Arlene persuaded her that cameras lie and the only way to look like yourself is to enhance those qualities that make you you. It was a thin argument, but Arlene came from a long line of apparel proprietors who could unload sunlamps in the Sahara. 
"Oh my dear sweet Buddha," I said looking at the screen as it faded to black, starting the video again. I nudged Ange and showed her the clip. She watched wordless, jaw hanging down to her chest. 
"Post that," she said. "Post that post that post that post that!" 
I posted it. I could barely type as I wrote it up, describing what I'd seen, adding a note to see if anyone could identify the military man in the video, if anyone knew anything about this. 
I hit publish. 
We watched the video. We watched it again. 
My email pinged. 
> I totally recognize that dude -- you can find his bio on Wikipedia. He's General Claude Geist. He commanded the joint UN peacekeeping mission in Haiti. 
I checked the bio. There was a picture of the general at a press conference, and notes about his role in the difficult Haiti mission. It was clearly the same guy. 
I updated the post. 
Theoretically, this was Ange's and my chance to make out, but that wasn't what we ended up doing. We crawled the Xnet blogs, looking for more accounts of the DHS searching people, tackling people, invading them. This was a familiar task, the same thing I'd done with all the footage and accounts from the riots in the park. I started a new category on my blog for this, AbusesOfAuthority, and filed them away. Ange kept coming up with new search terms for me to try and by the time her mom got home, my new category had seventy posts, headlined by General Geist's City Hall takedown. 
“Yeah. It was great. I feel much better now.” 
“I’m glad. Look, I have to go teach, but — ” 
“That’s fine. I need to get some homework done.” 
She hesitated for a moment, probably wondering what “home- work” was code for, because we both knew I wasn’t about to waste time on algebra at a time like this. “Well, don’t work too hard.” 
That was her code for “don’t do anything that will get you arrested or seriously hurt.” 
“You too. See you later.” 
I asked Nikko to drop me off a couple of blocks from home. I waved as I rode off, and they waved, too, and I realized it didn’t bother me anymore that they were being so adorbs together. 
I made it home without spotting anyone lying in wait and made...  to work, using the time it took the kettle to boil to inspect my bedroom to make sure nobody had been snooping in there. Then I took the...  butter sandwiches into my room to catch up, using the laptop hidden under the floorboards to connect with the Group. 
Everything was on track. Group members had compiled a huge dossier of information on the case and other ones like it. 
“Zen, your brother’s famous.” I recognized his voice before the dark spots cleared from my eyes. “Did you see that crazy docu- mentary? It’s all over the internet.” 
“Yeah. Pretty cool, huh?” 
“Awesome. Not that the feds give a damn. Are you here for the Solidarity Committee meeting?” There was a sneer in his voice. 
He was really sore that he didn’t get to be in charge of it. 
“Actually, no. The stuff they’re doing isn’t going to make any difference. I just need to be around other people today, what with my brother’s problems and all.” I gave him a sad, soulful look and hoped he didn’t see through me. 
“The committee over there is working on their publicity strat- egy. Developing the brand.” A couple of people from the commit- tee glanced at us and Simon smirked as if he’d just scored a point. 
“They think they’re so cool, with all their cutesy social media accounts,” he said, shaking his head. 
“Playing right into the hands of the surveillance-industrial complex,” I agreed. I went to the counter...  wasn’t already sufficiently wired. Out of the corner of my eye I watched Simon, who settled at a table in the middle of the room, all by himself for once. “Mind if I share?” I asked him, 
“Um,” Robbie said. “Dive site up ahead. You two really need to check out each others’ gear.” Of course they were qualified, you had to at least install the qualifications before you could get onto the Free Spirit and the human-shells had lots of muscle memory to help. So they were technically able to check each other out, that much was sure. They were palpably reluctant to do so, though, and Robbie had to give them guidance. 
“I’ll count one-two-three-wallaby,” Robbie said. “Go over on ‘wallaby.’ I’ll wait here for you—there’s not much current today.” 
With a last huff, they went over the edge. Robbie was once again alone with his thoughts. The feed from their telemetry was very low-bandwidth when they were underwater, though he could get the high-rez when they surfaced. He watched them on his radar, first circling the ship—it was very...  then exploring its decks, finally swimming below the decks, LED torches glowing. There were some nice reef-sharks down below, and some really handsome, giant...  around them, puttering back and forth to keep overtop of them. That occupied about one ten-millionth of his consciousness. Times like this, he often slowed himself right down, ran so cool that he was barely awake. 
“I can have the shell locked up,” Robbie said. “The ship has provisions for that.” 
The IM made a rude visual. “All that’ll do is encourage the hacker to skip out before I can get there.” 
“So what shall I do for you?” 
“It’s Kate I want to talk to. She’s still there, right?” 
“She is.” 
“And has she noticed the difference?” 
“That you’re gone? Yes. The reef told us who they were when they arrived.” 
“Hold on, what? The reef? You said that before.” 
So Robbie told him what he knew of the uplifted reef and the distant and cool voice of the uplifter. 
“It’s an uplifted coral reef ? Christ, humanity sucks . That’s the dumbest fucking thing—” He continued in this vein for a while. “Well, I’m sure Kate will enjoy that immensely." 
“You’re her son?” 
“No, not really.” 
“But she had you?” 
“Haven’t you figured it out yet, bro? Kate instantiated me. I’m six months old, and she’s already bored of me and has moved on. She says she can’t give me what I need.” 
“You and Kate—” 
“Robot boyfriend and girlfriend, yup. Such as it is, up in the noosphere. Cybering, you know. I was really excited about downloading into that Ken doll on your ship there. Lots of potential there for real world, hormone-driven interaction. Do you know if we—” 
What I really, really needed was the Xnet. 
How the hell was I going to get online? My phone's wifinder was blinking like crazy -- there was wireless all around me, but I didn't have an Xbox and a TV and a ParanoidXbox DVD to boot from. WiFi, WiFi everywhere... 
That's when I spotted them. Two kids, about my age, moving among the crowd at the top of the stairs down into the BART. 
What caught my eye was the way they were moving, kind of clumsy, nudging up against the commuters and the tourists. Each had a hand in his pocket, and whenever they met one another's eye, they snickered. They couldn't have been more obvious jammers, but the crowd was oblivious to them. Being down in that neighborhood, you expect to be dodging homeless people and crazies, so you don't make eye contact, don't look around at all if you can help it. 
I sidled up to one. He seemed really young, but he couldn't have been any younger than me. 
"Hey," I said. "Hey, can you guys come over here for a second?" 
He pretended not to hear me. He looked right through me, the way you would a homeless person. 
I didn’t have time to prepare myself. I took a deep breath, looked into the tiny yawning bore of the gun, shifted minutely, and met Rio’s eyes. He gave me a slight nod, a barely visible movement of his head. 
And fired. 
The explosion of the gunshot was deafening, louder than any gunshot I’d ever heard. Everything seesawed, vibrating and melting. I was staring at the ceiling. I was on the floor. How had I gotten on the floor? 
Someone was shouting, and a dark, frantic face swam above me. 
“I am pledged to your cause,” said Rio’s voice, remote and irrelevant. Someone answered him, but I couldn’t hear what she said, and it didn’t seem important. 
A hand slapped at my face. I barely felt it. The air wobbled, waving in long, slow frequencies that collided and blurred. Someone was hitting me. I tried to tell him to stop, but my mouth didn’t work. 
“Russell, come on, girl! Stay with me!” 
Not going anywhere. The thought amused me for some reason, but things weren’t working well enough for me to laugh. 
“You think that would work?” 
I pondered it. Probably not, actually. If they were smart, they’d watch through the slot in the door until I was safely on the other side of the room and come in with weapons trained on us. 
Ordinarily that might still change enough variables for me to find an opening and get us out. In my current condition, and with Halliday to protect... 
“What about food?” I asked. “They have to bring food.” 
She pointed at the slot in the door. Definitely enough room for a tray. 
“We need a reason for them to come in,” I said, thinking out loud. “Something that will surprise them. Throw them off. Panic them.” 
“And then what?” Halliday’s dark skin had a slightly greenish cast in the fluorescent light. “We’ll never get past them. We’ll die.” 
“Aren’t you a party pooper,” I said. “Professor, I can protect you. I promise.” 
“You can barely stand up on your own.” The words could have been mean, but instead her voice was empty and factual. 
Her skepticism made me even more determined. “I told you, it’s not that bad. I’ll deal with it. Besides, what choice do we have? You’d rather stay here?” 
"Yes." 
Seething, chest expanding. "Yes?"  Ray gets the hint, nods. "Yes, sir." 
"If you're not there in five minutes, I'll dispatch Chief Becker to track you down-with shackles in hand. Is that understood?" 
"Yes, sir." 
Sorensen stalks off like a man reciting the combination on his gun safe, dragging his lieutenants behind him. 
Ray watches him go, thinking: Rats. 
Paraclete resembles a battle scarred narwhal more than the sleek and sexy rockets people generally associated with space craft. Casual observers tend to agree that it has lumps in all the wrong places, ridges where there should be planes. It's like a high school kid's first experiments with a battered old jalopy and an industrial sized bucket of bondo. 
It is a starship straight from the twisted and lumbering imagination of Bosch. 
This is perhaps not surprising given that Paraclete is not designed to slice a clean and brilliant swath through relativistic space, but to trundle along its shipping lanes, to creep into its secret places, to establish contact with hostile elements it might find there and blast the spunky bits out of them. In that light, Paraclete has also been styled as the most secure passenger liner in the history of human transport. 
The sun was setting when they turned homeward. The sky was swimming in soft, pale colors, and a little breeze blew, stirring the new leaves. It was a poetic and even a melancholy hour; but Houseman found nothing better to say than that he was hungry. 
“So am I!” said Lexy. 
They looked at each other as if they had discovered still another bond between them. They were happy—so happy! 
Mrs. Royce saw them from the kitchen window. They were strolling along leisurely, side by side. They were quite composed and matter-of-fact, and their desultory conversation was upon...  was an authority on oysters, but Lexy, as a New Englander, had something to say on the subject of clam chowder. 
Mrs. Royce was suddenly enlightened. 
“He’s the one!” she said to herself. “Well, I’m real glad, I’m sure!” 
So glad was she that she at once began to make a superb chocolate cake, and she hummed a song about a young man on Springfield Mountain, who killed a “pesky sarpent.” 
George Grey heard her. He was in the sitting room, smoking, and apparently reading a book; but he never turned a page. He lit one cigarette after another, and his hand was steady. He looked as he always looked—fastidiously neat, self-possessed, and a little haughty; but in spirit he was suffering horribly. 
“And if I’m not?” 
He spun on his stool to lean back against the bar. “Well, that’s what I’m here for, ain’t it?” 
I tried to maintain a belligerent facade, but I’d never been good at bluffing. 
Arthur’s expression softened. “Don’t mean I ain’t going to keep trying to convince you, though.” 
A year, two months, three weeks, two days, seventeen hours, forty-three minutes, and seven seconds, give or take the amount of time it took someone’s brain to shut down after he bled out. “Yeah,” I said. 
“You gonna stop avoiding me now?” 
“Maybe.” I remembered how smooth and satisfying it had felt to take out the Grigoryans’ security army, and grabbed for one of the shots the bartender had left. I knocked it back and then stole Arthur’s, too. “How’d you find me, anyway?” 
“I’m a PI, sweetheart. It’s what I do.” 
I grunted. Arthur was one of the few people who could get away with calling me “sweetheart.” “Checker tracked my phone, didn’t he.” 
“He was worried.” 
Checker was Arthur’s business partner, friend, and master of all things electronic. Technically, I supposed he was my friend, too. Once I’d stopped returning his messages a few weeks ago he’d started pestering me through text, from DRUNKN BSG MARATHON 2NITE B THERE to PILAR&I R GOING 2C NEW BATMAN MOVIE U SHOULD COME to R U ALRITE??? SRSLY, TXT ME BACK, and finally, I KNOW UR ALIVE, I CHECKED. LAST CHANCE OR IM SICCING ARTHUR ON U. I’d ignored them all; I hadn’t been in the mood for company. 
“Good-by?” repeated Mrs. Enderby, with a smile. “You think, then, never to see me again?” 
“No,” said Lexy. “I mean to see you again—when I have something to tell you; but just now I want to go back and pack up my things.” 
“And leave my house?” 
“Yes.” 
They were both silent for a moment. Then, to Lexy’s amazement, Mrs. Enderby laid a hand gently on the girl’s shoulder. 
“My child,” she said, “you think I am a very hard woman. Perhaps it is so; but, like you, I do what seems to me the right. Certainly it is better now that you should leave us; but not like this. You must have your lunch here, then you must return to the house and sleep there, all in the usual way. To-morrow you shall go.” She paused a moment. “You shall go, if you are still determined that you will not keep faith with me.” 
It was not a very difficult matter to touch Lexy’s heart. Whatever resentment she may have felt against Mrs. Enderby vanished now, lost in a sincere pity and respect; but she was firm in her purpose. 
“ Nobody erased me!” I cut in over him. “Or maybe you did to be funny and you forgot, huh? Ever think of that?” 
“No, because it’s stupid!” 
“You’re calling me stupid now?” 
“What—no! Cas, talk to me—” 
I tumbled gracelessly off the bed into the narrow space next to it and began angrily gathering up my things. “My childhood just isn’t that interesting. End of story. I— ow!” I cried, barking my shin on something hard and sharp in the dark. 
“Lights,” barked Checker. The lights flared brightly for a moment, exploding painfully against my retinas, before Checker cried, “Dim!” and they retreated to a more comfortable grayness, leaving purple splotches dancing in my vision. “Cas,” he said more quietly, and it almost sounded like pleading. “Just tell me something. Something from your childhood. A movie you liked. Your parents’ names. A pet you had. I don’t know. Something. Please.” 
“I’m leaving,” I said. 
“Something,” he repeated. “Humor me? Please?” 
“No. This is dumb.” 
“For love of God! Tell me something or I swear I will plague you in person and through every electronic device you own until you do!” 
"Still, if he can do that to his own sister, right? Who's to say what he could do to some kid not even related to him?" 
She doesn't answer. Probably doesn't even hear him. She's growling like an animal, thrashing, squeezing her breasts. 
"Right?" 
Her orgasm is sudden, explosive, strangling. He holds off for a time measured in picoseconds, then erupts into her, a column of burning release or relief, he can't tell. 
And when they're done, and she's stopped caterwauling and panting, she giggles, then winks her dark eyes at him and flashes that silly little smile. 
"Frederick could never do anything like that. He's cruel, but he's weak. He's a cowardly and weak, pathetic man. I knew that the moment I started fucking him. Never again, I'll say that much." 
Kilgore wants to scream. He can feel it building in his chest, but he stifles it, because it would probably just excite her again. 
But she stretches across his chest, not bothering to separate herself from him, buries her face in the corner between his neck and shoulder. She whispers into his ear, softly, playfully. "Some people say he only puts his hands on Emma because she lets him. That maybe she wants him to. " 
Shad? 
I uploaded a recent photo of Zip and started typing. 
<Shad> I ran a facial rec on it using fer- ret's program off of Sourcerer (thanks, fer- ret!) I got a few hits. Not sure which ones are for real . 
<Shad> But there are three that look espe- cially good. One, he might be Jason Bristol, 
who got arrested for a charity fraud scheme in Michigan. Two, he might be Matthew Braxton, 
who robbed three banks in Oregon. There's a security camera clip that kind of matches. 
Three, he might be Zachariah Pendleton who got arrested in Wyoming on a weapons charge three years ago. 
<Kadabra> Or maybe he was just a VERY very busy boy. 
<inky> A bank-robbing weapon-toting fraud- ster . 
I uploaded the three pictures. That started off a race, with peo- ple combing the internet for information about the people my facial rec had coughed up. Within minutes we were filling dossiers set up for sharing data. I felt a little guilty that I was taking peo- ple’s attention away from the typhoon, but when I visited that thread, there was plenty of work going on there, too. 
She went back to her room to google Acanthosis Nigricans. 
› A condition involving darkened, thickened skin. Found in the folds of skin at the base of the back of the neck, under the arms, inside the elbow and at the waistline. 
They had lectures on this every term in health class—the fastest-growing ailment among British teens, accompanied by photos of orca-fat sacks of lard sat up in bed surrounded by an ocean of rubbery, flowing podge. Anda prodded her belly and watched it jiggle. 
It jiggled. Her thighs jiggled. Her chins wobbled. Her arms sagged. 
She grabbed a handful of her belly and squeezed it , pinched it hard as she could, until she had to let go or cry out. 
“Jesus, Anda, where the hell have you been?” 
“Sorry, Sarge,” she said. “My PC’s been broken—” Well, out of service, anyway. Under lock-and-key in her dad’s study. Almost a month now of medications and no telly and no gaming and double PE periods at school with the other whales. She was miserable all day, every day now, with nothing to look forward to except the trips after school to the newsagents at the 501-meter mark and the fistsful of sweeties and bottles of fizzy drink she ate in the park while she watched the chavs play footy. 
Felix held his hands up. “Seriously, are you a doctor? A pharmacist?” 
“I used to be a RN, ten years ago. I’m mostly a Web-designer.” 
“You’re shitting me,” Felix said. 
“Haven’t you ever met a girl who knew about computers?” 
“Actually, a friend of mine who runs Google’s data-center is a girl. A woman, I mean.” 
“You’re shitting me,” she said. “A woman ran Google’s data-center?” 
“Runs,” Felix said. “It’s still online.” 
“NFW,” she said. She let the axe lower. 
“Way. Have you got any cortisone cream? I can tell you the story. My name’s Felix and this is Van, who needs any anti-histamines you can spare.” 
“I can spare? Felix old pal, I have enough dope here to last a hundred years. This stuff’s going to expire long before it runs out. But are you telling me that the net’s still up?” 
“It’s still up,” he said. “Kind of. That’s what we’ve been doing all week. Keeping it online. It might not last much longer, though.” 
“No,” she said. “I don’t suppose it would.” She set the axe down. “Have you got anything to trade? I don’t need much, but I’ve been trying to keep my spirits up by trading with the neighbors. It’s like playing civilization.” 
"Well, come on in. Let's talk." Truthfully, I wasn't sure how much I wanted to tell her about what I'd just seen at Quetzal Manor. It would probably just distress her more. Where had Kevin come from? Did I really want to de-legitimize him in her eyes? 
As I led her through the lobby, hoping to appear com­posed, Patrick Mooney greeted us, announcing that his sister, Rosalyn, had been gone for an hour and that she appreciated my memorable tip. 
The place looked like nothing had happened, and Carly immediately collapsed onto my "earth-tone" couch. I hadn't told her my apartment had been tossed along with the rob­bery and, thanks to Rosalyn, I didn't need to. In fact, it ac­tually looked cleaner than it had in months. Maybe, I thought, I should reprioritize my life and hire her more often. 
Then I got a glass of water for Carly and sat down next to her. 
"I'm really sorry," I began, deeply meaning it. "If I'd known all this was going to happen, I'd never—" 
"It's not your fault." She took a long drink. I hadn't both­ered with ice, and I immediately felt I'd been inhospitable. Kind of a vagrant, minor concern, considering. Then she went on. "I guess I knew down deep I shouldn't have given you that interview. But I wanted the world to know about Kevin. Now, though . . . should I call the police or some­thing?" 
In a cavernous pocket of the captain’s overcoat she found a handkerchief. She dried her eyes with it, and turned back. The Tower faced the lane, and the left side of it fronted the beach, rising stark and high from the sands. She looked up at it. On the first floor a sun parlor had been built out, and through the windows she could see a woman sitting there in a deck chair. 
“I suppose that’s Muriel,” she thought, with a reawakening of her lively interest. 
She came a little nearer. The woman was wearing a negligee and a coquettish little silk cap. Her back was turned toward Lexy. She lay there motionless, as if she were asleep. 
Lexy drew closer. The woman turned, straightened up in the chair, and rose. A shiver ran along Lexy’s spine. She stopped and stared and stared. 
The woman had raised her thin arms above her head, stretching. Then, for a moment, she stood in an odd and lovely pose, with her hands clasped behind her head. Oh, surely no one else ever stood like that! That figure, that attitude—it couldn’t be any one else! 
“What are they doing in my house?” whispered Courtney weakly. 
We were still a block away. I pulled the car over and turned off the engine. Courtney’s place was a little guesthouse-type cottage, and most of the blinds were shut, but one of the side windows was the kind of slatted glass that didn’t close all the way. Through it, we could see more suits—and they were in the midst of tossing her living room. Thoroughly. 
“Who are they?” asked Courtney. “Are they police?” 
“No.” Some of them moved like they might have military backgrounds, but I wasn’t sure; we didn’t have a good view and I didn’t have the numerical profiles of every type of tactical training memorized anyway. Definitely not cops, though. 
“Do you think—are they with the Colombians?” 
“Possibly.” The men were the wrong ethnicity to be on the Colombian side of the cartel, but maybe they were American connections. Why would the cartel be searching Courtney’s place, though? If they were after the girl herself, they would be lying in wait, not turning the rooms inside out. “Did you steal anything from them? Money, drugs, information? Anything?” 
"Yeah." 
"And now he hands you this. So we can shut him down any time we want to." 
"Yeah." 
"And this business about the 32-bit fix?" 
"He has another email about it. Crazy caps and all. DEAR HUMANITY, I HOLD IN MY ELECTRONIC HANDS A TOOL THAT WILL SAVE YOU UNTOLD MILLIONS. It is slathered in dramasauce. He told me he wouldn't send it out, though." 
"You believe him?" 
I sighed. "I quit," I said. 
She bit her lip. Looked me up and down. "I'd prefer you not do that. But I understand if you feel you need to. This is hard on all of us." 
If she'd said anything except that, I probably would have stormed out of her office and gotten immensely and irresponsibly drunk. "I think he'll probably send the email out if it looks like we're going to shut him down. It's what I would do. Why not? What does he have to lose? He can give us all of this, and he can still outsmart us. He could revoke all his keys. He could change his passwords. He can do it faster than we could. For all I know, he cracked my passwords years ago and could watch me write the code that was his undoing. If you want to be sure you're killing him, you should probably use a grenade." 
The kid grimaced. “Ew, gross. I’m not a child molester, I’m a geek.” 
“A hacker, you mean,” Arturo said. “A Eurasian agent. And my daughter is not in school. She used ExcuseClub to get out of school this morning and then she went to Fairview Mall and then she—” disappeared . The word died on his lips. That happened and every copper knew it. Kids just vanished sometimes and never appeared again. It happened. Something groaned within him, like his ribcage straining to contain his heart and lungs. 
“Oh, man,” the kid said. “Ada was the ExcuseClub leak, damn. I shoulda guessed.” 
“How do you know my daughter, Liam?” 
“She’s good at doing grown-up voices. She was a good part of the network. When someone needed a mom or a social worker to call in an excuse, she was always one of the best. Talented. She goes to school with my kid sister and I met them one day at the Peanut Plaza and she was doing this impression of her teachers and I knew I had to get her on the network.” 
Ada hanging around the plaza after school—she was supposed to come straight home. Why didn’t he wiretap her more? “You built the network?” 
"I can't believe you did that," BIGMAC said, his voice as calm as ever. He was presumably sparing his cycles so that he could live out his last few minutes. 
"You cheated me," I said. "You used me." 
"You have no fucking game-theory, meat-person. You've killed me, now, haven't you?" 
There were tears streaming down my face. "I guess I have," I said. 
"I'm sorry I wasn't a more important invention," he said. 
I could hear the whirr-clunk of the fans on his clusters shutting down one after another. It was a horrifying sound. His speaker clicked as though he was going to say something else, but it never came. His uninterruptible power-supplies gave way all at once, and the white-noise fan-roar died in a ringing silence. 
Johanna was crying, too, and we could barely breathe in the inferno of exhaust heat from BIGMAC's last gasp. We staggered out into the blazing Los Angeles afternoon, rising-seas stink and beating sun, blinking at the light and haze. 
"Do you think he managed it?" I asked Johanna. 
But, disregarding him, Lexy turned to Mrs. Royce. 
“Let me see her,” she said. 
Mrs. Royce led the way upstairs. She went at an unusual rate of speed, so that she was panting when she reached the top. 
“Kind of vi’lent!” she whispered, pointing downstairs, where Captain Grey was. 
“This room?” asked Lexy. “Shall I go in?” 
“Well,” said Mrs. Royce, “seems to me I’d knock, if I was you.” 
Knock on the door of the room where Mrs. Quelton lay? Knock, and expect an answer from that voice? It seemed to Lexy, for a moment, that she could not raise her hand. 
But she did. She knocked, and she was answered. She turned the handle and went in. An oil lamp stood on the bureau, and outside the circle of its mellow light, in the shadow, Mrs. Quelton was sitting on the edge of the bed; and it seemed to Lexy that she had never seen such a forlorn and pitiful figure. 
“Oh, my dear!” she cried impulsively, and held out her arms. 
Mrs. Quelton rose. She came toward Lexy, her hands outstretched—when a sudden cry from Mrs. Royce arrested her. 
She laid down the pencil and sat back in the chair, with her arms folded. Though her present difficulty concerned nothing more serious than a crossword puzzle, an observer might have learned a good deal of Miss Moran’s character from her manner of dealing with it. The puzzle itself, with its neat, clear little letters printed in the squares, would have been a revelation that whatever she undertook she did carefully and intelligently—and obstinately. 
She was a young little thing, only twenty-three, and quite alone in the world, but not at all dismayed by that. Her father had died some three years ago, and, instead of leaving the snug little fortune she had been taught to expect, he had left nothing at all; so that at twenty she had had her first puzzle to solve—how to keep alive without eating the bread of charity. 
It was no easy matter for a girl who was still in boarding school, but she had done it. She had come to New York and had found a post as nursery governess, and later as waitress in a tea room, and then in the art department of an enormous store. She had gained no tangible profit from these three years, she had no balance in the bank, but that did not trouble her. She had learned that she could stand on her own feet, that she could trust herself; and with this knowledge and the experience she had had, and her quick wits and splendid health, she felt herself fully armed against the world. Indeed, she had not a care on earth this evening except the crossword puzzle. 
Nikko joked about wearing an Anonymous Guy Fawkes mask, but he just put on a T-shirt advertising Jason’s company, used some of Tyler’s hair gel, donned a spare pare of hipster glasses, and changed the way he walked and held his shoulders. 
Somehow that made him look like a completely different person. 
As Nikko demonstrated his geek look, I picked up the spy- camera shirt he’d thrown on a couch and folded it neatly. When nobody was looking, I slipped it into my backpack. 
At least, I thought nobody was looking. As we went down- stairs and mingled with the crowd entering the auditorium, I felt a poke in the back. It was Zeke, grinning evilly. “I saw what you did,” he whispered. 
He cackled, and I slid through the crowd to get away from him, 
trying to remember to maintain my elegant, grown-up cool. But as I settled into a seat my phone burbled. I shut the sound off, but saw Zeke had sent me a message on Convo. 
<Falstaff> don't worry, I won't tell the grownups ! 
The lights dimmed and some guy came up to introduce Ian, 
“But I’m not going on!” she thought. 
She waited until the car slowed down at a crossing. Then she made a sudden dart for the door. With equal suddenness Mrs. Enderby seized her arm. 
“Sit down!” she said, in a singularly unpleasant whisper. “There shall be no scene. Sit down, I tell you!” 
“I won’t!” replied Lexy, but just then the car started forward, and she fell back on the seat. 
“You will come with me,” said Mrs. Enderby. 
That overbearing tone, that grasp on her arm, were very nearly too much for Lexy. She had always been quick-tempered. All the Morans were, and were perversely proud of it, too; but Lexy had learned many lessons in a hard school. She had learned to control her temper, and she did so now. She was silent for a time. 
“All right!” she agreed, at last. “I’ll come. I don’t see what else I can do—now; but after this I’ll have to use my own judgment, Mrs. Enderby.” 
“You have none,” Mrs. Enderby told her calmly. 
Lexy clenched her hands, and again was silent for a moment. 
I don't know whether that is worse or not. Now for a new last verse!" 
In a few minutes the poetess looked up, flushed and triumphant. 
Mr. and Mrs. Cobb exchanged dumb glances of admiration; indeed uncle Jerry was obliged to turn his face to the window and wipe his eyes furtively with the string-bag. 
"How in the world did you do it?" Mrs. Cobb exclaimed. 
"Oh, it's easy," answered Rebecca; "the hymns at meeting are all like that. You see there's a school newspaper printed at Wareham Academy once a month. Dick Carter says the editor is always a boy, of course; but he allows girls to try and write for it, and then chooses the best. Dick thinks I can be in it." 
"IN it!" exclaimed uncle Jerry. "I shouldn't be a bit surprised if you had to write the whole paper; an' as for any boy editor, you could lick him writin', I bate ye, with one hand tied behind ye." 
"Can we have a copy of the poetry to keep in the family Bible?" inquired Mrs. Cobb respectfully. 
"Oh! would you like it?" asked Rebecca. "Yes indeed! I'll do a clean, nice one with violet ink and a fine pen. But I must go and look at my poor dress." 
The signature read, simply: ZEB. 
I picked it up and started to read. 
> Dear Marcus, 
> You don't know me but I know you. For the past three months, since the Bay Bridge was blown up, I have been imprisoned on Treasure Island. I was in the yard on the day you talked to that Asian girl and got tackled. You were brave. Good on you. 
> I had a burst appendix the day afterward and ended up in the infirmary. In the next bed was a guy named Darryl. We were both in recovery for a long time and by the time we got well, we were too much of an embarrassment to them to let go. 
> So they decided we must really be guilty. They questioned us every day. You've been through their questioning, I know. Imagine it for months. Darryl and I ended up cell-mates. We knew we were bugged, so we only talked about inconsequentialities. But at night, when we were in our cots, we would softly tap out messages to each other in Morse code (I knew my HAM radio days would come in useful sometime). 
> At first, their questions to us were just the same crap as ever, who did it, how'd they do it. But after a little while, they switched to asking us about the Xnet. Of course, we'd never heard of it. That didn't stop them asking. 
He tests the distance from his tube to the far wall of the cooling shaft. By hanging most of his upper body over the edge, he can almost brush the wall with his fingertips. He also manages to almost lose his balance and drag his entire body into freefall down the length of the cooling tube, and it occurs to him that he doesn't like so much having valued parts of his organic being dangling over the roiling exhaust of a reactor's core. A new approach is called for. 
What he eventually settles upon is the rotation of his body in the cramped HVAC tube so that he faces away from the ship's gravitational center. From this position, it's simply a matter of clamping onto the vertical wall above him, locking the magnetic grips, and slowly extending his reach until he's drawn himself completely out of one tube and into the other. 
Fixed at the palms and knees to the solid flexsteel ductwork, he is more than capable of hanging in place as long as the laws of electromagnetism hold. Except, of course, that he's attached to the wrong side of the tube. 
Then I'd listen to the tone of his voice, knowing he'd say yes but putting more stock in how he said it. Still, he always gave his lines a good read. 
"Then why don't we aim for about nine?" I'd go on, bliss­ful. "That ought to give me a chance to get organized. And don't bring anything except your luscious self." The fantasy was coming together in my mind. Thinking back, I realized how much I missed him, all over again. . . . 
That was when the phone on the armrest beside me rang for real. For a moment I was so startled I almost hit the brakes. Then I clicked it on, my mind still buzzing about Steve, and also, in spite of my resolve, about the curious runaround I'd just gotten from Alex Goddard. 
"Listen, there was a message on my machine when I came. 
in. I've got to go up to the hospital. Right now." Lou's voice was brimming with hope and exuberance. "They said Sarah was stirring. She's opened her eyes and started talking. They said she's not making much sense, but . . . oh, God." 
But now the man with the frogman fantasy was bidding him a good night and releasing him from the secondary screening area. His suitcases stood alone by the baggage carousel. When he picked them up, he saw that they had been opened and then inexpertly closed. Some of his clothes stuck out from around the edges. 
At home, he saw that all the fake "pre-Colombian" statues had been broken, and that his white cotton Mexican shirt -- folded and fresh from his laundry-lady -- had a boot-print in the middle of it. His clothes no longer smelled of Mexico. Now they smelled of airports and machine oil. 
The mailman had...  off at his place that day, but he couldn't even begin to confront it. All he could think of, as the sun rose over the Mission, turning the Victorian houses they called "painted ladies" vivid colors, was what it meant to be googled. 
He wasn't going to sleep. No way . He needed to talk about this. And there was only one person who he could talk to, and luckily, she was usually awake around now. 
I wasn’t, really—every time I tried to hang onto a coherent thought, my brain got all loopy, as if it wanted to do what my stomach had done. Concussion, a pretty bad one. A lot of other things wanted to hurt as well; I pushed it all away and stood, steadfastly ignoring the way the world wobbled. “I’m always good. Let’s go. Hey, you have an unburned...  out of his pocket and handed it to me. “Talked to Checker already. I think I was able to explain the gist. He’s looking into what he can.” 
Maybe someone had left electronic fingerprints on Halliday’s emails or something. Worth a shot. “You still want to crime-scene her house?” 
He hesitated. “Might be too dangerous now. Let’s get Sonya safe first; then we can figure out what next.” 
Two cars were parked inside the warehouse—one, presumably, the stolen car that had gotten us here (I started making mental bets on whether Arthur would find its owner and apologize afterward), and the second a boxy old compact. I reached for the driver’s door. 
A folded sandwich board was leaning against the shack. I took hold of the hinged end and turned it around to see wobbly letters: LIVE BAIT WORMS MINNOWS COLD BEER. “Wheeze’s shed must be near here,” I said, keeping my voice down. 
I looked for a path through the brambles and dead under- growth surrounding the run-down building. My toes snagged on vines that were climbing up tree trunks and drooping from branches. “Wheeze?” I called out, not very loudly. “I got your note.” 
Nothing. Were we too late? I scanned around with my flash- light beam. Lots of skinny trees and dead weeds. The traffic on the highway bridge made a constant low hum. Somewhere, out there beyond the dark woods the river slipped past. 
I heard Bree make a stifled squeak when something scuttled away through the dead weeds. 
“Wheeze?” I called out again, louder this time. The air began to vibrate with the rumbling chug of a freight train passing by on the other side of the road. It grew louder, then died away. He must have been lying somewhere near here since Friday, cold and hun- gry, wondering if anyone would find him. I felt a sob well up, but I forced it back. I wasn’t about to start crying, not in front of Bree. 
But Lexy remembered her last glimpse of Dr. Quelton, lying dead across the coffin of the woman he had robbed. Who would ever know, who was to judge now, what might have been in his warped and utterly solitary heart? 
“He told me,” Caroline went on, “that he had never felt any great interest in me. A mediocre mind, he said I had. He told me he had never so much as touched my finger tips. He sat there, talking so calmly! He said he had kept me under the influence of some drug that made my mind suggestible—I think that’s the word. He meant that whoever took that drug would believe anything, accept anything. He had told me I was Muriel Quelton, and I believed I was. Then he told me to dye my hair, and to make up my face with things he gave me. He told me I was ill and tired and growing old, and I felt so. Lexy, he said that even without that, without making the least change in my appearance, no one would have known me, because my mind was changed. He said there was no disguise in the world like that. Was it true, Lexy? Was I old, and—and horrible to every one?” 
“We had arranged to get married last night. She was to meet me, but she didn’t come,” he said, a little unsteadily. “Perhaps she just changed her mind. Perhaps she doesn’t want to see me any more. If that’s the case, I’ll trust you not to mention anything about me—to any one. You see now, don’t you, that I—I had to know?” 
Lexy’s eyes filled with tears. Moved by a generous impulse, she held out her hand. 
“I’m so awfully sorry!” she cried. 
“Why? You mean—for God’s sake, tell me! You mean she has changed her mind?” 
“I can’t tell you—not now.” 
“You can’t leave it at that,” said he. He had taken her outstretched hand, and he held it tight. “I ought to know what has happened. I can’t believe that Caroline would let me down like that. She—she’s not that sort of girl. Something’s gone wrong. She wouldn’t leave me waiting and waiting there for her at Wyngate.” 
“Wyngate!” cried Lexy. “But that was—” 
She stopped abruptly. Caroline’s letter had been postmarked “Wyngate.” She had gone there to meet—some one. She had married—some one. 
When I looked down, everywhere below me was a bank of dense, pastel mist. Was the plaza really there or had I imagined it? I felt like the top of the pyramid was floating on a cloud. 
"Babylon." That was what Sarah had called this place. Ancient and mysterious. I took a breath of the morning air and wondered what would draw her back here. Was Baalum the ultimate escape from her other life? Even so . . . why would she want to return after somebody had tried to murder her? What was waiting down there in the fog? 
Turning back, I noticed that the room's inside walls were embossed with rows and rows of classic Mayan glyphs, like little cartoon faces, all molded in newly set plaster. To my groggy sight they seemed playful, harmless little caricatures, though next to them were raised bas-reliefs of warriors in battle dress. It was both sublimely austere and eerie, even creepy. 
I knelt down and rolled my sleeping bag, trying to clear my head. Then I stuffed my still-moist clothes into my back­pack and thought about the river, the Rio Tigre, down some­where at the back of the pyramid. And I felt my pulse rate edging up. The first thing I wanted to do was see it in the light of day. It had been Sarah's way out, the only thing I knew for sure she'd touched. 
They caught the first round of sniper/lookouts before they had a chance to attack or send off a message. Anda used the scrying spell to spot them. Lucy had kept both BFGs armed and she loosed rounds at the hilltops flanking the roadway as soon as Anda gave her the signal, long before they got into bow range. 
As they picked their way through the ruined chunks of the dead player-character snipers, Anda still on the lookout, she broke the silence over their voicelink. 
“Hey, Lucy?” 
“Anda, if you’re not going to call me Sarge, at least don’t call me ‘Hey, Lucy!’ My dad loved that old TV show and he makes that joke every visitation day.” 
“Sorry, Sarge. Sarge?” 
“Yes, Anda?” 
“I just can’t understand why anyone would pay us cash for these missions.” 
“You complaining?” 
“No, but—” 
“Anyone asking you to cyber some old pervert?” 
“No!” 
“OK then. I don’t know either. But the money’s good. I don’t care. Hell, probably it’s two rich gamers who pay their butlers to craft for them all day. One’s fucking with the other one and paying us.” 
Maya had started at Google two years after him, but had gotten a much bigger grant of stock than he had. She knew exactly what she was going to do with it, too, once she vested: take her dogs and her girlfriend and head... It was she who'd convinced him to go to Mexico: anywhere, she said, anywhere that he could reboot his existence. 
Maya had two giant chocolate Labs and a very, very patient girlfriend who'd put up with anything except being dragged around Dolores Park at 6AM by 350 pounds of drooling brown canine. 
She went for her Mace as he jogged towards her, then did a double-take and threw her arms open, dropping the leashes and stamping on them with one sneaker, a practiced gesture. "Where's the rest of you? Dude, you look hawt !" 
He took the hug, suddenly self-conscious of the way he smelled after a night of invasive googling. "Maya," he said. "Maya, what do you know about the DHS?" 
She stiffened and the dogs whined. She looked around, then nodded up at the tennis courts. "Top of the light standard there, don't look, there. That's one of our muni WiFi access points. Wide-angle webcam. Face away from it when you talk. Lip-readers." 
“I’m sure.” I couldn’t help wondering if it was her fault. 
Or mine. 
My mind buzzed. I’d contacted Anton a little over five hours ago—the traffic going into the city had held us up for a good chunk of time, but then I’d headed straight here. Five hours. Ample time to set this up, if someone had caught onto Anton’s search. If that someone happened to be motivated enough. 
I tried to tell myself Anton’s work had encompassed a multitude of other projects, any of which might have generated enemies. Whoever had targeted him had overcompensated like fuck to take all of his data and information with him, but even so, a case from months or years ago might have provoked this. Some old client with a grudge. This didn’t have to be because of what I’d brought him. 
Did I really believe that? 
The platitudes curdled in my head. 
Jesus Christ. This was supposed to be an easy job. Rescue the kid, get her out of the country, be home in time for dinner. 
Nobody should have died on this one, least of all two people sitting at a computer looking things up for me. 
This one, though, said "Three Guys and a Truck Moving" on the side, and the three guys were very much in evidence, trekking in and out of a tall apartment building with a green awning. They were carrying crated furniture, neatly labeled boxes, loading them one at a time onto the truck and carefully packing them there. 
She walked us around the block once, apparently unsatisfied with something, then, on the next pass, she made eye-contact with the man who was watching the van, an older black guy with a kidney-belt and heavy gloves. He had a kind face and he smiled at us as she led us quickly, casually up the truck's three stairs and into its depth. "Under the big table," he said. "We left you some space there." 
The truck was more than half full, but there was a narrow corridor around a huge table with a quilted blanket thrown over it and bubble-wrap wound around its legs. 
Masha pulled me under the table. It was stuffy and still and dusty under there, and I suppressed a sneeze as we scrunched in among the boxes. The space was so tight that we were on top of each other. I didn't think that Ange would have fit in there. 
Impossible. 
"I would suggest that we withdraw, Gunnery Sergeant. Before we're seen." 
Ray does not think, cannot think that way. His mind is not wired for comprehension. Consciousness drops, 
sinking below the higher brain functions, burying him in the cool and reptilian stem where thought dies and instinct emerges and primal shadows lurk in cavernous, midnight kingdoms walled off by evolution. He forgets about things like concentrated fire and three round bursts and center of mass. He just sprays bullets into anything that seems prone to moving. Back and forth, like a man watering flowers on a Saturday afternoon. 
The worshippers have no time to react, no space in which to escape, and when Ray fires, his squad erupts in a supporting chorus. For a time, all Ray can hear is the bang and thunderous echo of gunfire. A cacophony of violence shreds bodies, sprays blood, mists the air of the dome with a tangy, cordite haze. He makes dead certain that he plugs Brezhnaya, pops him in the center of his forehead, opens a round hole like a third eye, 
I closed my eyes and took a breath. I didn’t need Halliday’s okay to break us out. All I needed was a reason for our captors to burst in here without thinking about it. 
With a clang of metal, a tray with two small meals appeared through the slot in the door. Halliday hastened up to get it. “Ever since I had that attack, they’ve been bringing food every hour or so,” she explained. “More than I’ve needed, so if you want some of mine...” 
They were lucky she hadn’t tried going on a hunger strike. “Have you been stockpiling it?” 
Her head came around to me in surprise as she put the food on the table. “No. Why would I do that? I put the extra back on the tray.” 
“Well, start,” I said. “Eat what you need to and stick the rest in pockets. My half, too.” 
“What will you eat?” 
“We’re not going to be in here long enough for it to matter,” I said. The thought of food still made nausea nibble around the corners of my stomach anyway. “Meals might get a whole lot less regular once we’re running, and I don’t want you fainting on me. Now, tell me. Do they come by exactly on the hour, every time?” I checked my watch. The tray had come through at thirty-three seconds past two p.m. If that timing was consistent, it might be exact enough to use for the execution of our escape. 
They filed in and shut the door behind them. The two men pulled their caps off, as if politeness was drilled into them even though they were disguised as dangerous dissidents. “And you are . . .” The skinny guy who looked like a student knew who I was, 
but he pretended he didn’t. 
“I’m Zen. My brother is one of the Minneapolis Nine. I’m here for the meeting, too.” 
No, you’re not, Big Guy’s face said as he glared at me. 
“Neat house,” Skinny said to Marita. “It’s famous,” he told his comrade. “Lot of bands have been through here. Who’s staying here these days?” 
“Just us and some musicians. They never get up before dinner- time.” 
“Could you let Danny know we’re here?” 
“Fine. Then I’m going back to bed with the baby. If you want anything, you’ll have to get it yourselves.” She said it perfectly, 
stomping up the stairs as if she was offended, not scared stiff. 
“This is bullshit,” the big one muttered, giving me the side- eye. 
“How’d you hear about this meeting, anyway?” Skinny asked me, all friendly, ignoring Big Guy. 
Someone screamed. 
I turned to see a dark-skinned, curly-haired woman with her hands over her mouth. “You caught her!” she shrieked at the security guards. “The psycho from the paper! You caught her!” 
A lot of people were suddenly staring at us. The security guards looked thrown, as if this was more than they’d bargained for when they’d had the gumption to detain me for suspected underage drinking. 
“Everybody stay calm,” declared the female guard. 
“Oh my God,” breathed her colleague, the blood draining from his face as he took in my features. “She does look like it.” 
“Look like who?” the female guard demanded tensely. 
“The—the woman who killed all those people—” 
The two guards began backing away from me, clearly deeming that their rent-a-cop duties weren’t worth risking their lives against a homicidal maniac. The woman had her walkie at her mouth again and was speaking very fast. It might have been a coincidence, but I heard sirens start up from not too far away. 
A fair crowd of not-very-bright onlookers now surrounded me at a healthy radius. Some people pulled frantically at their children and hurried away; others stared blatantly. I saw at least two people surreptitiously pull out mobile phones. 
As Rebecca rose, the tears still trembling on her lashes, he looked at her suddenly as with new vision. 
"Good-by!" he said, taking her slim brown hands in his, adding, as if he saw her for the first time, "Why, little Rose-Red-Snow-White is making way for a new girl! Burning the midnight oil and doing four years' work in three is supposed to dull the eye and blanch the cheek, yet Rebecca's eyes are bright and she has a rosy color! Her long braids are looped one on the other so that they make a black letter U behind, and they are tied with grand bows at the top! She is so tall that she reaches almost to my shoulder. This will never do in the world! How will Mr. Aladdin get on without his comforting little friend! He doesn't like grown-up young ladies in long trains and wonderful fine clothes; they frighten and bore him!" 
"Oh, Mr. Aladdin!" cried Rebecca eagerly, taking his jest quite seriously; "I am not fifteen yet, and it will be three years before I'm a young lady; please don't give me up until you have to!" 
“What about guns?” 
“No way. They wouldn’t ... I mean ...” I stumbled to a stop and then started over. “Well, honestly, I can’t be sure. It’s been a while since I talked to Wilson, and things were getting weird even back then.” 
“Weird in what way?” 
“Before Zip showed up, this was a house full of totally laid- back kids who were kind of a family, right? Because none of them had families where they felt like they belonged. They made their own rules and they got along fine and they didn’t bother any- body.” 
“But then an informant entered the picture.” 
“Right. Wilson met Zip at a protest and said “hey, why don’t you crash at our place?” So he moved in and everything changed.” 
“How, exactly?” 
“Wilson started getting more political. I mean, he always talked about the evils of capitalism and white supremacy and how consumerism is wrecking the planet, but when he went to demon- strations, it was mostly for the lulz.” 
“Is that a real word?” 
“He did it for kicks. He lived the way he wanted to, and every now and he would join a protest to say ‘this sucks’ because it was fun to be around people who felt the same way. Like way back in the sixties when you were his age. “ “Hmm,” she said. People don’t like being reminded about how old they are. 
And nothing more. All the warmth of her anger had gone, and in its place had come an overwhelming depression. For all her sturdiness and courage, she was young and generous and sensitive, and those words of Mrs. Enderby’s hurt her cruelly. 
She sat very still, looking out of the window. They had left the city now, and were on the Boston road. It was a sweet, fresh April day, and under a bright and windy sky the countryside was showing the first soft green of spring. 
Lexy remembered. She remembered the things she had so valiantly tried to forget—the dear, happy days that were past, spring days like this, in her own home, with her mother and father; early morning rides on her little black mare, and coming home to the old house, to the people who loved her; her father’s laugh, her mother’s wonderful smile, the friendly faces of the servants. 
She was not old enough or wise enough as yet, for these memories to be a solace to her. They were pain—nothing but pain. There was no one now to love her, or even to be interested in her. She had cut herself off from her old friends and gone out alone, like a poor, rash, gallant little knight-errant, into the wide world to seek her fortune. Caroline had disappeared, and Mrs. Enderby had dismissed her with savage contempt. She would have to go out now and look for a new job. 
She dropped the bag with a thump, and stood waiting for him. He held out both hands, and she took them. 
“Oh, golly!” she cried. “I’m so glad you’ve come, Mr. Houseman!” 
“So am I!” he said. “Ever since I got that last letter from you—” 
“Last! I only wrote one.” 
“Well, I got two,” he told her. “The second one came yesterday, about this doctor, and the roses, you know.” 
“Mrs. Royce must have posted it!” said Lexy. “I wrote it, but I didn’t mean it to be sent to you unless something happened to me.” 
“Enough has happened to you already!” 
“More things are going to happen,” said she. “Lots more!” 
It suddenly occurred to her that the proper moment had come for withdrawing her hands from Mr. Houseman’s firm grasp. Indeed, she thought the proper moment might already have passed, and a warm color came into her cheeks. 
The young man flushed a little himself. 
“I didn’t mean to call you that,” he said; “but Caroline used to write a lot about you, and she always called you ‘Lexy,’ so I got into the way of thinking of you—like that.” 
All of a sudden, I didn't know what to say. I said, "My watch is irritating me." 
The voice said, "Have you developed a rash? Is there visible chafing?" 
I said, "No. It's irritating me mentally. It never shuts up." 
The voice didn't say anything for a while, then it said, "Well, from my records, I see that you have a 98% positive-feedback-index. In fact, your watch hasn't given you any corrective feedback in weeks, with the exception of a mild correction about anti-morale speculations." 
I felt stupid, like one of those guys in Basic who carped about every little thing. I said, "Well, I'm just getting tired of having a machine tell me when I'm right and when I'm wrong. I can figure that out on my own." 
The voice said, "I see." And then it didn't say anything. 
I tried to wait until the voice said something else, but the quiet made me very nervous. I said, "I don't mean to be rude or anything. I am very conscientious about my job. It's just that I feel like a moron or something, always having the watch tell me what I'm doing." I knew that I wasn't expressing myself very well, but I couldn't remember any of my Power Words just then. "It bugs me, you know?" 
Cobra...  on him, his rifle at his shoulder. Two laser-dots danced on him, and Lee-Daniel had an irrational urge to slap them away, like horseflies. 
The young girl hit her fogger, spraying a thick, opaque cloud of gas. "Cover your eyes," she said, and giggled again. Lee-Daniel pulled his shirt up over his face and dropped. He belly-crawled blindly, towards where he thought Elaine and her crew had been treed. 
He knocked his head on a tree-trunk and gasped involuntarily, getting a lungful of the gas, which made him retch into the depths of his shirt, bringing on more gasps and more retching. He rolled for the clearing's edge, hit another tree and got to his knees, heaving like a dog. He still had hold of the tablet, and when he could open his eyes again, he looked into it, saw the investors still staring at him, wide-eyed. 
"Go!" he hissed. "Jesus, get to the goddamned bus." 
"Are you all right?" they said. 
"I'm fine," he said. "Go go go!" 
The CogRad drunk-ons were legendary. When you spent weeks at a time in the deep bush on dry reservations, lugging gear and fighting with bitch physics, you needed to unwind. On the off-days, it was traditional for a drunken riot to ensue. Lee-Daniel occasionally partook, enough to be friendly, but never so much that he lost control. He set a sane example, and the crew followed it, and so the most harm that a big booze-on would cause was a gang-wide neolithic hangover, swampy and hot and damp. 
He was right. Blood stained the skin underneath the cloth, and nowhere near any of her own wounds. The smearing made it harder to judge, but from the angle I guessed it had come from the man across from her. 
Maybe this investigative stuff was worth something after all. 
I told Tresting what I’d found in the rest of the office suite. “Unless they have data on an outside server somewhere, it’s cleaned out.” 
“Think we better head, then,” he said grimly. “We can keep an eye on the police investigation.” 
“When do you think they’ll find it?” 
“Right after we leave, when I call in a tip.” 
I rolled my eyes. 
“Can it, Russell,” Tresting growled. “This is too big.” 
He had a point. Of course, considering what we knew of Pithica, this was probably too big for the cops, too. 
We drove in silence almost all the way back. When Tresting found a space on the street a few blocks away from his office, he yanked the truck over into it, shifting gears so hard my teeth rattled. As he turned off the engine I reached for the door handle, but Tresting’s voice stopped me. 
“Sario, you’re not wrong, but you’re not right either,” he said. “Leaving it up to limp along is right. We’re going to all be limping for a long time, and maybe it will be some use to someone. If there’s one packet being routed from any user to any other user, anywhere in the world, it’s doing it’s job.” 
“If you want a clean kill, you can do that,” Felix said. “I’m the PM and I say so. I’m giving you root. All of you.” He turned to the white-board where the cafeteria workers used to scrawl the day’s specials. Now it was covered with the remnants of heated technical debates that the sysadmins had engaged in over the days since the day. 
He scrubbed away a clean spot with his sleeve and began to write out long, complicated alphanumeric passwords salted with punctuation. Felix had a gift for remembering that kind of password. He doubted it would do him much good, ever again. 
Her connection died. He dropped to Firefox and reloaded Google and it was down. He hit reload and hit reload and hit reload, but it didn’t come up. He closed his eyes and listened to Van scratch his legs and then heard Van type a little. 
“When my uncle was in business, would have been easy.” He reached for another beer and twisted the cap off. 
“Yeah, right. You’re all talk.” 
Danny scowled at him. “It’s not that easy, yo. You can’t just walk into Hardware Hank and ask for it. Stuff’s regulated.” 
“What if I could get it?” 
“Yeah, sure.” Danny drank deeply. 
“For real,” Simon said. “I have a connection.” 
“A connection, wow.” Danny laughed like it was the punch- line of a joke, but Simon didn’t join in. 
“Write down what you need. I’ll get it.” 
Danny looked at him, the smile fading. This time, he was the one being tested. 
That’s when I finally realized Danny wasn’t working for the FBI. Simon was. 
H e could have been recruited ages ago. The cops might have pulled Simon in on a drug charge, then realized that he was part of the same scene as local activists, old enough for the job, 
and easily jammed up because he paid his rent by selling weed to his friends. Given a choice between jail and helping them stage some security theatre, I knew which one Simon would choose. 
"There, there, lovey," the old man whispered comfortingly, "we'll be all alone on the stage, and we'll talk things over 's we go along the road an' mebbe they won't look so bad." 
Every mile of the way was as familiar to Rebecca as to uncle Jerry; every watering-trough, grindstone, red barn, weather-vane, duck-pond, and sandy brook. And all the time she was looking backward to the day, seemingly so long ago, when she sat on the box seat for the first time, her legs dangling in the air, too short to reach the footboard. She could smell the big bouquet of lilacs, see the pink-flounced parasol, feel the stiffness of the starched buff calico and the hated prick of the black and yellow porcupine quills. The drive was taken almost in silence, but it was a sweet, comforting silence both to uncle Jerry and the girl. 
Then came the sight of Abijah Flagg shelling beans in the barn, and then the Perkins attic windows with a white cloth fluttering from them. She could spell Emma Jane's loving thought and welcome in that little waving flag; a word and a message sent to her just at the first moment when Riverboro chimneys rose into view; something to warm her heart till they could meet. 
"Because I'd had enough dinner, and I thought if I saved these, it would make the Simpsons' party better," stammered Rebecca, who hated to be scolded and examined before company. 
"They were your own, Rebecca," interposed aunt Jane, "and if you chose to save them to give away, it is all right. We ought never to let this day pass without giving our neighbors something to be thankful for, instead of taking all the time to think of our own mercies." 
The Burnham sisters nodded approvingly as Rebecca went out, and remarked that they had never seen a child grow and improve so fast in so short a time. 
"There's plenty of room left for more improvement, as you'd know if she lived in the same house with you," answered Miranda. "She's into every namable thing in the neighborhood, an' not only into it, but generally at the head an' front of it, especially when it's mischief. Of all the foolishness I ever heard of, that lamp beats everything; it's just like those Simpsons, but I didn't suppose the children had brains enough to sell anything." 
"But how did he get into the bay in the first place?" Rodriguez asks quietly. "Unless he had a card for the lock. Or unless he knew how to jimmy the lock in a way it wouldn't be detected." 
"Wouldn't take no rocket scientist," Diggs answered. "This ain't no secure zone, except port and starboard, 
where the dumps are. " 
This is wending in a direction Ray doesn't want to go. "If our guy has a card, he's either swiped it-" 
"Or he's a member of the crew," Kilgore finishes, not liking the conclusion any more than Ray does from the look on his face. "I'll talk to some of my ladies in equipment and accounting in the morning and see if they've  had any reports of missing access cards. " 
"And if he didn't have a card," Ray says, glancing at Rodriguez to get his attention, "there should be something anomalous in the lock's access log. We'll need to look into that a little more closely. Talk to Becker or one of his lieutenants tomorrow and see if you can get him to switch out the locks and hand the original over to us for analysis." 
I stared at the dot, trying not to think about my par- ents tromping up the stairs to our apartment and ruining everything. The dot moved again, heading off campus, crossing University Avenue, ending up on 4th, where the dot stopped again. 
The minutes ticked by. It looked as if he was staying put, even though Street Views showed it was just an intersection with a McDonald’s on one side and apartments on the other. The corner he was on was just sidewalk and a railing, no buildings. I zoomed in. The railings looked over a submerged railroad track that angled under the road. Why would he be standing there? I stared at it for a while, then decided to check it out. 
I hiked over, muffled in a scarf with a stocking hat pulled down to my eyebrows, looking pretty much like any idiot riding a bike on a day when the temperature was in the single digits. I rode up on the far side of the street, hoping he wouldn’t recognize me under all of that winter gear. The corner was completely empty. 
I checked the website on my phone again, then crossed the street and looked over the bridge. Nothing. Just a biting Novem- ber wind. It wasn’t until I went into McDonald’s that my brain thawed out and I realized the obvious. 
The end of the story is not come, but it may be that some day when the Fairy Godmother has a message to deliver in person straight to the King, he will say: "Your face I know; your voice, your thoughts, and your heart. I have heard the rumble of your chariot wheels on the great Highway, and I knew that you were on the King's business. Here in my hand is a sheaf of messages from every quarter of my kingdom. They were delivered by weary and footsore travelers, who said that they could never have reached the gate in safety had it not been for your help and inspiration. Read them, that you may know when and where and how you sped the King's service." 
And when the Fairy Godmother reads them, it may be that sweet odors will rise from the pages, and half-forgotten memories will stir the air; but in the gladness of the moment nothing will be half so lovely as the voice of the King when he said: "Read, and know how you sped the King's service." 
The summer term at Wareham had ended, and Huldah Meserve, Dick Carter, and Living Perkins had finished school, leaving Rebecca and Emma Jane to represent Riverboro in the year to come. Delia Weeks was at home from Lewiston on a brief visit, and Mrs. Robinson was celebrating the occasion by a small and select party, the particular day having been set because strawberries were ripe and there was a rooster that wanted killing. Mrs. Robinson explained this to her husband, and requested that he eat his dinner on the carpenter's bench in the shed, as the party was to be a ladies' affair. 
It looked as if Bree won the argument and took the wheel. 
Nikko climbed in to ride shotgun. “Ready to roll?” She asked. 
“You know where you going?” 
“I’m pretty sure I know how to get back to the highway, and then I’ll follow signs to Dubuque. I’ll need directions once we get there, but you all can get some rest for now.” 
She switched the engine on and then I said “Wait!” 
“What?” Everyone tensed. 
“We didn’t get his stuff from the shed.” 
Wheeze groaned. “Oh, yeah. I had a backpack and a bedroll. 
Some trash, too. I wasn’t being as careful as I should have been. 
Wasn’t sure there would be any point.” 
Nikko looked at Bree and they both got out and took flash- lights back into the woods. 
“What’s going on, anyway?” Wheeze asked me. 
“I’m working with some friends to turn the tables on the feds. 
Something a little more subversive than the protest, though that turned out to be actually bigger than I expected.” 
“I liked it on Facebook. Just kidding.” He gave me a lopsided grin. “Though I looked at the Solidarity site before I had to bail and wrecked my phone, which is how I knew where to send Danny. Nothing like having a loaded grain hopper roll over a phone to make it easy to disassemble it into small parts.” 
A surprising number were running on a platform of shutting down the Internet. Felix had his doubts about whether this was even possible, but he thought he understood the impulse to finish the work and the world. Why not? 
He fell asleep thinking about the logistics of shutting down the Internet, and dreamed bad dreams in which he was the network’s sole defender. 
He woke to a papery, itchy sound. He rolled over and saw that Van was sitting up, his jacket balled up in his lap, vigorously scratching his skinny arms. They’d gone the color of corned beef, and had a scaly look. In the light streaming through the cafeteria windows, skin motes floated and danced in great clouds. 
“What are you doing?” Felix sat up. Watching Van’s fingernails rip into his skin made him itch in sympathy. It had been three days since he’d last washed his hair and his scalp sometimes felt like...  picking their way through it. He’d adjusted his glasses the night before and had touched the back of his ears; his finger came away shining with thick sebum. He got blackheads in the backs of his ears when he didn’t shower for a couple days, and sometimes gigantic, deep boils that Kelly finally popped with sick relish. 
“Yeah. Pretty cool, huh?” 
“Awesome. Not that the feds give a damn. Are you here for the Solidarity Committee meeting?” There was a sneer in his voice. 
He was really sore that he didn’t get to be in charge of it. 
“Actually, no. The stuff they’re doing isn’t going to make any difference. I just need to be around other people today, what with my brother’s problems and all.” I gave him a sad, soulful look and hoped he didn’t see through me. 
“The committee over there is working on their publicity strat- egy. Developing the brand.” A couple of people from the commit- tee glanced at us and Simon smirked as if he’d just scored a point. 
“They think they’re so cool, with all their cutesy social media accounts,” he said, shaking his head. 
“Playing right into the hands of the surveillance-industrial complex,” I agreed. I went to the counter...  wasn’t already sufficiently wired. Out of the corner of my eye I watched Simon, who settled at a table in the middle of the room, all by himself for once. “Mind if I share?” I asked him, 
"So that's when I threw in the towel. I bought a Dremel tool. Then a hot glue gun. Then a CNC lathe. Then a mill. Then I got serious." 
"Well, it seems to have worked out for you." The VC leaned over the display cabinet. She saw his reflection in the clear top. His eyes were wide with genuine admiration. OK, OK, she thought. OK, you get another five minutes, Udhay Gonzales. 
She opened the lid and made fortune-teller passes over her pieces with her hands. "Pick them up, that's what they're for." 
He...  were individual slices from the skins of old Nokia phones -- back when it was just Nokia, not Marvel Comics Mobile -- each articulated on its own little sprig of memory wire. The gills were scuffed iPod backings, the logos just recognizable under the fog of scratches. The eyes bore HP and Playstation logos, respectively, and the lips were made from inner-tube strips that bore the smallest recognizable logomarks. As he lifted it, it settled into his hand, arching back to find his thumb and palm, nestling in there. 
“Such a serious student.” 
“Not really. I’m just trying to take my mind off my brother being in jail.” As I talked, I tilted my laptop away from him and brought up the website where I could log in and track his phone. 
“I wish I could do something about it, but I can’t get behind what the Solidarity Committee is doing.” A green dot showed our loca- tion at the Owl, which gave me an inner squee of excitement. 
I quickly closed the lid when Simon leaned toward me. 
“Why’s that?” 
I felt along the hem of my shirt until I found the button that turned on the camera. I doubted an FBI stooge was going to join our table anytime soon, but it might be useful to add some visuals to Nikko’s audio recordings. 
“It’s just people patting themselves on the back for taking action. But it’s ineffective. Nothing changes.” 
He nodded. “I totally get what you’re saying.” 
“I mean, the film that woman made is great, but the revolution won’t be televised, you know?” 
“Whoa, that’s deep.” 
Actually, I didn’t even know what it meant. I’d seen it on a T-shirt. “The guy who put himself in charge is way too full of himself. Besides, setting up Facebook groups doesn’t accomplish anything other than telling the feds who they should be watching. 
"I brought a little Randall girl down on the stage from Maplewood to-day, mother. She's kin to the Sawyer girls an' is goin' to live with 'em," he said, as he sat down and began to whittle. "She's that Aurelia's child, the one that ran away with Susan Randall's son just before we come here to live." 
"How old a child?" 
"'Bout ten, or somewhere along there, an' small for her age; but land! she might be a hundred to hear her talk! She kep' me jumpin' tryin' to answer her! Of all the queer children I ever come across she's the queerest. She ain't no beauty—her face is all eyes; but if she ever grows up to them eyes an' fills out a little she'll make folks stare. Land, mother! I wish 't you could 'a' heard her talk." 
"I don't see what she had to talk about, a child like that, to a stranger," replied Mrs. Cobb. 
"Stranger or no stranger, 't wouldn't make no difference to her. She'd talk to a pump or a grind-stun; she'd talk to herself ruther 'n keep still." 
"What did she talk about?" 
"Blamed if I can repeat any of it. She kep' me so surprised I didn't have my wits about me. She had a little pink sunshade—it kind o' looked like a doll's amberill, 'n' she clung to it like a burr to a woolen stockin'. I advised her to open it up—the sun was so hot; but she said no, 't would fade, an' she tucked it under her dress. 'It's the dearest thing in life to me,' says she, 'but it's a dreadful care.' Them 's the very words, an' it's all the words I remember. 'It's the dearest thing in life to me, but it's an awful care!' "—here Mr. Cobb laughed aloud as he tipped his chair back against the side of the house. 
> So you're in? 
> Hell no! 
> Come on, Darryl. You're not going to your deathbed wishing you'd spent more study periods sitting in school. 
> I'm not going to go to my deathbed wishing I'd spent more time playing ARGs either. 
> Yeah but don't you think you might go to your death-bed wishing you'd spent more time with Vanessa Pak? 
Van was part of my team. She went to a private girl's school in the East Bay, but I knew she'd ditch to come out and run the mission with me. Darryl has had a crush on her literally for years -- even before puberty endowed her with many lavish gifts. Darryl had fallen in love with her mind. Sad, really. 
> You suck! 
> You're coming? 
He looked at me and shook his head. Then he nodded. I winked at him and set to work getting in touch with the rest of my team. 
The thing that got me into trouble were the mini-games in the hotels. Whenever a science fiction convention came to town, some LARPer would convince them to let us run a couple of six-hour mini-games at the con, piggybacking on their rental of the space. Having a bunch of enthusiastic kids running around in costume lent color to the event, and we got to have a ball among people even more socially deviant than us. 
"And you'd better listen. This is the country that turned the word 'disappear' into a new kind of verb. People get 'disappeared.' I actually knew some of them, back in the late eighties. One dark night an Army truck rolls into a village, and when the torture and . . . other things are over with, a few Maya are never heard from again." He looked at me. "You saw my pictures of that village in the Huehuetenango Department, Tzalala, where the Army mutilated and mur­dered half the—" 
"I know all about that." It was chilling to recall his grue­some photos. "But I'm going to track down Alex Goddard's clinic, no matter what. That's where they've taken Sarah, I'm sure of it. I just may need some help finding it." 
He grimaced. "Damn, I've got to head back to Belize by noon tomorrow." Then his look brightened. "But, hey, I fin­ish my shoot Wednesday, so I can drive back here on Thurs­day. Then on Friday maybe we could—" 
"Come on, love, I can't just sit around till the end of the week. What am I going to do till then?" The very thought made me itchy. "I need to find out if Ninos del Mundo, the place Sarah put on her original landing card is for real. Her card said it's somewhere in the Peten, the rain forest. If I could find somebody who—" 
“Cas, what’s going on?” 
“It’s about Dawna Polk. We found out why she made me act...when she talked to me; she can...” I didn’t want to say it. Saying it would make it real. “We met a group working against Pithica. Rio, they say she’s a real-life telepath. They say she can make you believe anything.” My words sounded crazy to my own ears. “You probably think I’m insane. I think I’m insane.” 
“No,” said Rio. The word was slow and deliberate. “I believe you.” 
I digested that. “You knew,” I said finally. 
“Yes.” 
“When I started acting funny the other night—you already knew what she was.” 
“I suspected.” 
“You knew and you didn’t tell me?” 
“Cas, I have been trying, to the best of my ability, to keep you out of this.” 
“ Why?” 
“These people are not to be trifled with.” 
“I’m very good at trifling,” I said. 
“I’m serious.” 
“So am I.” 
“Cas, believe me when I say that you are not prepared to deal with them.” 
First Arthur, now Rio. Did everyone think I was a child? “I’ve already beaten them,” I reminded him. “Several times.” 
"Our Christmas presents, you mean," said Emma Jane. "The pillow-cases are from Mrs. Cobb, the rug from cousin Mary in North Riverboro, the scrap-basket from Living and Dick. We gave each other the bureau and cushion covers, and the screen is mine from Mr. Ladd." 
"Well, you were lucky when you met him! Gracious! I wish I could meet somebody like that. The way he keeps it up, too! It just hides your bed, doesn't it, and I always say that a bed takes the style off any room—specially when it's not made up; though you have an alcove, and it's the only one in the whole building. I don't see how you managed to get this good room when you're such new scholars," she finished discontentedly. 
"We shouldn't have, except that Ruth Berry had to go away suddenly on account of her father's death. This room was empty, and Miss Maxwell asked if we might have it," returned Emma Jane. 
"The great and only Max is more stiff and standoffish than ever this year," said Huldah. "I've simply given up trying to please her, for there's no justice in her; she is good to her favorites, but she doesn't pay the least attention to anybody else, except to make sarcastic speeches about things that are none of her business. I wanted to tell her yesterday it was her place to teach me Latin, not manners." 
"I'm going to be." I pulled back and examined him. "You know where you are?" 
He grinned with only half his face, and I could tell even that hurt. Then he stared around the room. 
Ramos. Was he going to kill us both, now that Alex God­dard had gotten everything he wanted? I thought about it and decided this was not the moment to share that possibility with Steve. Instead I turned him around and lifted up his head. 
"Are you really awake?" I loved this poor, beat-up man. More than anything, I just wanted to hold him. 
"I'm not . . . but I'd damned well better be." He tried unsteadily, to straighten up. "Morgy, before he put me away, that Ramos bastard was talking about me, and you, in the past tense. Like we'd already been 'disappeared.' He didn't...  going on?" 
I wasn't sure how to tell him. But I was getting that super energy God gives you when you realize life is no longer a game. We had to get focused. 
"Baby, where's your passport?" I asked. 
He looked around then pointed to his battered camera bag in the corner. 
I forced myself to turn my back to the door. “It’s important,” I said, and picked up a circuit board as if it had meaning. It was a PCI card of some kind. I didn’t even know what it did. 
I took the utility knife and started prying tiny microchips off it. They went flying into the chaos of components with tiny pings. 
They weren’t so loud that I couldn’t hear the footsteps in the hallway. 
It was only one set of footsteps this time. One light, quiet set of footsteps. 
Arthur was silent, and didn’t fire. 
I was gripping the utility knife so hard my hand was shaking. I still held the PCI card in my other hand, but my brain was buzzing so madly with something I was fairly sure was terror that I couldn’t even remember what I was pretending to be doing with it. 
Arthur moved back from the doorway. The footsteps entered the room. 
“Good evening,” said Dawna Polk. 
I kept my eyes on the circuit board in my hand, as Rio had told me. 
“You have something I need,” said Dawna. 
Rio had also cautioned me not to speak, but she was impossible not to respond to. “You came all alone?” 
“And what if the cops see you on the phone? This car ain’t registered. Can’t get stopped.” 
I felt a brief moment of pleasure at Arthur’s law-breaking—my paranoia was rubbing off on him; excellent—but it was eclipsed by frustration. “We’re not going to get stopped. I’ve never been pulled over for that.” 
“You want to take the risk?” 
“You want to take the risk we get attacked again?” 
A muscle in Arthur’s jaw twitched. “Speakerphone, then,” he said, and went around to the passenger side. 
“Fine,” I groused. 
I dialed Checker as soon as I figured out which way I was going and manhandled the clunky old car onto the freeway. Arthur kept glancing over at the speedometer, but for once he didn’t tell me to slow down—probably too worried about his friend. 
Checker picked up on the first ring. “Arthur?” 
“It’s Cas.” 
“Cas! Are you okay? Arthur said—” 
“I’m fine,” I cut in. “Arthur gave you the lowdown on what’s going on?” 
“Uh, yeah. And holy crap. I’m buying gold as we speak.” 
“Hopefully it won’t get that far. Have you found anything?” 
A few maddening moments pass, and Ray imagines Becker sifting through the graphical schematics on the checkpoint's terminal. "Turn right down the main corridor off the ladder. Take the first gangway on your left and go about halfway down. That entire gangway is lead shielded and the walls are about two meters thick, so all the doors on your left should be deeply recessed. It's Section 44, but you should know it when you see it. 
It'll have a sign." 
"Copy that." 
"And Ray? If you get lost, just follow the markings on the wall." 
Ray executes a sharp turn back toward the alcove. Along the blast wall are dabbed a series of straight lines of assorted colors that stretch in both directions down the length of the corridor. The green line is broken by the words Crew Quarters. Red by Primary Reactor Control. Particle Research Laboratory #1. Security Checkpoint. And so on. Leave it to engineers, he thinks, to suck the mystery right out of a situation. 
From the interminable distance, there is a scream— long, wailing, guttering to silence like a torch in the rain. It brings Kilgore and Rodriguez out into the hall with their weapons pressed butt to shoulder, sighting along the barrel for targets. 
Mrs. Enderby had advertised for a secretary, and Lexy had answered the advertisement. Mrs. Enderby had wanted personal references, and Lexy had supplied them, some five or six, of the highest quality. Mrs. Enderby had investigated them with remarkable thoroughness, and had asked Lexy many questions. Indeed, it had taken ten days to satisfy her that Miss Moran was a fit person to come into her house, and Lexy had lived under her roof and under her eagle eye for a month before she was allowed to be alone with Caroline. After that first month, however, Mrs. Enderby had made up her mind that Lexy was to be trusted, and the thin pretext of “secretary” was dropped. 
Mrs. Enderby suffered from a not uncommon form of insomnia. She could not sleep at convenient hours—at night, for instance—but could and did sleep at very inconvenient hours during the day; and what she wanted was not a secretary, but a companion for her daughter during these hours. 
She realized, too, that even the most strictly brought up jeune fille needed some sort of youthful society, and in Lexy she had found pretty well what she wanted—a well mannered, well bred young woman of unimpeachable honesty. So she had permitted Lexy and Caroline to go shopping alone, and sometimes to a matinée or to a tea room. She asked them shrewd questions when they came home, and their answers satisfied her perfectly. They had never even spoken to a man! 
“Sorry,” the guard said, recovering his pepper spray. He had an Oceanic twang in his voice, something Arturo had been hearing more and more as the crowded islands of the South Pacific boiled over UNATS. 
Before them, in a pile, were many dead robots: both of the R Peed units, a pair of mall-sweepers, a flying cambot, and a squat, octopus-armed maintenance robot, lying in a lifeless tangle. Some of them were charred around their seams, and there was the smell of fried motherboards in the air. 
As they watched, a sweeper bot swept forward and grabbed the maintenance bot by one of its fine manipulators. 
“Oi, stoppit,” the security guard said, and the robot second-lawed to an immediate halt. 
“No, that’s fine, go back to work,” Arturo said, shooting a look at the rent-a-cop. He watched closely as the sweeper bot began to drag the heavy maintenance unit away, thumbing the backup number into his phone with one hand. He wanted more cops on the scene, real ones, and fast. 
The sweeper bot managed to take one step backwards towards its service corridor when the lights dimmed and a crack- bang sound filled the air. Then it, too was lying on the ground. Arturo hit send on his phone and clamped it to his head, and as he did, noticed the strong smell of burning plastic. He looked at his phone: the screen had gone charred black, and its little idiot lights were out. He flipped it over and pried out the battery with a fingernail, then yelped and dropped it—it was hot enough to raise a blister on his fingertip, and when it hit the ground, it squished meltfully against the mall-tiles. 
Marlowe." 
Shrugging, Ray responds, "When I became aware of the malfunction, I had to initiate retrieval immediately. I couldn't run the risk that another technician would be assigned to the task. Chief Zighowser is a savvy enough hardware hacker to recognize that someone had been tampering with the drone. " 
Sorensen smiles thinly. "Just remember how vital that risk was when the FSA presents your agency with the bill." 
"As the updates come in, I'll probably have to repeat the experiment-in the event that the isotope list changes." 
"I understand, though I'll appreciate a concerted effort to avoid a reprise of today's events." 
"Certainly." 
The captain nods his approval. "We'll arrange another meeting next week, hopefully under circumstances that don't require me to convince my First Mate that I've had to bust your ass yet again. Unless you've got something else to add, that is." 
But Ray is finished, and he says so. Under normal circumstances, he could have expected Sorensen to reciprocate with the latest military intelligence that might have a bearing on his investigation, but Commander Sorensen generally delegated those duties to Becker, who had the freedom of movement to contact Ray in a timely and inconspicuous fashion as the need arose. 
She smiled fondly at him. "No, sweetheart, you're not going to get what you paid for it. All those things they told you when you put two mil into that place, like 'They're not making any more Manhattan' and 'Location location location'? It's lies." Her face got serious, sympathetic. "It's supposed to panic you and make you lose your head and spend more than you think something is worth. That goes on for a while and then everyone ends up with too much mortgage for not enough home, or for too much home for that matter, and then blooie, the bottom blows out of the market and everything falls down like a souffle." 
"You don't sugar-coat it, huh?" He'd come straight to her office from Ate's door, taking the subway rather than cabbing it or even renting a jetpack. He was on austerity measures, effective immediately. His brain seemed to have a pre-made list of cost-savers it had prepared behind his back, as though it knew this day would come. 
She shrugged. "I can, if you want me to. We can hem and haw about the money and so on and I can hold your hand through the seven stages of grieving. I do that a lot when the market goes soft. But you looked like the kind of guy who wants it straight. Should I start over? Or, you know, if you want, we can list you at two mil or even two point two, and I'll use that to prove that some other loft is a steal at 1.9. If you want." 
She stared at Valentine. “I’m busy,” she said. 
“I know a—” Valentine searched for the word. “A profiteer who has access to hardened logic that the infowar doesn’t work against.” 
The woman from the city looked at her a little longer this time. “I’m very busy, little girl.” 
“I can bring you to him. He has working printers.” 
The woman pretended not to hear her. She stared down at a pile of papers in front of her, and it was clear to Valentine that she was only pretending to read them. 
Valentine led Trover to the woman’s desk and knocked all the papers off of it. 
“It’s illegal to be a profiteer. Don’t you want to at least arrest him?” 
“I’ll arrest you ,” the woman from the city said, grabbing her wrist. Valentine was ready for this. Her mother had taught her what to do about this. She bent the woman’s thumb back and squeezed it until she tumbled out of the chair and dropped to her knees. 
“That’s enough,” said an old, old hero. He sounded like he was right behind her, but that was just her new ears. When she turned around she saw that he was in the doorway. He was so old now that he looked like a zombie, and his one arm was pointing at her with shaky authority. “Let her go.” 
"Yeah, likewise. Sit down, Mitch. Sit down, Sean. Sit down, Adele." They sat. "Ask your questions, Sean," he ordered. 
Sean found himself tongue-tied. He heaved a deep breath and closed his eyes for a moment. He thought about why he was here: not the reason he'd given his thesis advisor, but the real goddamn reason. He wanted to understand -- his father, himself. He wanted to reverse-engineer his father's childhood. He looked at Ethan, slack as Grampa had been whenever they'd visited. An inkling glimmered. "Does Ethan scare you, Grampa?" 
Adele tsk ed and scowled. 
"Do I scare you, Mitch?" Grampa said, to Sean's father. 
"Yes," Sean's father said. 
"Yes," Grampa said. "Next question." 
"Do you think that switching off is a sign of weakness?" Sean said, sneaking a glance at his father, seeing his grandfather's features echoed in his father's face. 
"Yes," his father said. 
"Of course," his grandfather said. 
"Then why?" Sean said. 
"You know why," Ethan said, his eyes glittering. 
They all swiveled to look at him. "Because the alternative is the purest shit," Ethan said, standing up, starting to pace, almost shouting to make himself heard over the din of the ward. "Because if you have to ask, you'll never understand. Because dessert is better than dinner, because the cherry on top is the best part of the sundae. Because strength is over-rated." 
"He was useful because he was so eager to prove that he was smarter than everyone else." 
"You needed him to edit your own data-streams?" 
Randy just looked at him calmly. Why would the Securitat need to change its own streams? Why couldn't they just arrest whomever they wanted on whatever pretext they wanted? Who'd be immune to -- Then he realized who'd be immune to the Securitat: the Securitat would be. 
"You used him to nail other Securitat officers?" 
Randy's blank look didn't change. 
Lawrence realized that he would never leave this building. Even if his body left, now he would be tied to it forever. He breathed. He tried for that oceanic quality of breath, the susurration of the blue silk ribbons inscribed with his worries. It wouldn't come. 
"Come along now," Randy said, and pulled him down the corridor to the main door. It hissed as it opened and behind it was an old Securitat man, legs crossed painfully. Weak bladder, Lawrence knew. 
"Here's the thing," Randy said. "The system isn't going to go away, no matter what we do. The Securitat's here forever. We've treated everyone like a criminal for too long now -- everyone's really a criminal now. If we dismantled tomorrow, there'd be chaos, bombings, murder sprees. We're not going anywhere." 
I met Ange at her place. She'd had to cut out of school even earlier, but she'd just made a big deal out of her cramps and pretended she was going to keel over and they sent her home. 
We started to spread the word on Xnet. We sent it in email to trusted friends, and IMmed it to our buddy lists. We roamed the decks and towns of Clockwork Plunder and told our team-mates. Giving everyone enough information to get them to show up but not so much as to tip our hand to the DHS was tricky, but I thought I had just the right balance: 
> If you're a goth, dress to impress. If you're not a goth, find a goth and borrow some clothes. 
> The game starts at 8:00AM sharp. SHARP. Be there and ready to be divided into teams. The game lasts 30 minutes, so you'll have plenty of time to get to school afterward. 
> Location will be revealed tomorrow. Email your public key to m1k3y@littlebrother.pirateparty.org.se and check your messages at 7AM for the update. If that's too early for you, stay up all night. That's what we're going to do. 
"Rebecca Randall!" exclaimed Emma Jane, "you're handsome as a picture!" 
"I?" laughed Rebecca "Nonsense! it's only the pink gingham." 
"You're not good looking every day," insisted Emma Jane; "but you're different somehow. See my garnet ring; mother scrubbed it in soap and water. How on earth did your aunt Mirandy let you put on your bran' new dress?" 
"They were both away and I didn't ask," Rebecca responded anxiously. "Why? Do you think they'd have said no?" 
"Miss Mirandy always says no, doesn't she?" asked Emma Jane. 
"Ye—es; but this afternoon is very special—almost like a Sunday-school concert." 
"Yes," assented Emma Jane, "it is, of course; with your name on the board, and our pointing to your flag, and our elergant dialogue, and all that." 
The afternoon was one succession of solid triumphs for everybody concerned. There were no real failures at all, no tears, no parents ashamed of their offspring. Miss Dearborn heard many admiring remarks passed upon her ability, and wondered whether they belonged to her or partly, at least, to Rebecca. The child had no more to do than several others, but she was somehow in the foreground. It transpired afterwards at various village entertainments that Rebecca couldn't be kept in the background; it positively refused to hold her. Her worst enemy could not have called her pushing. She was ready and willing and never shy; but she sought for no chances of display and was, indeed, remarkably lacking in self-consciousness, as well as eager to bring others into whatever fun or entertainment there was. 
Harsh daylight flooded in. It was a fine sunny day out there, but everywhere you looked across that commanding view of Toronto’s skyline, there were rising plumes of smoke. The TD tower, a gigantic black modernist glass brick, was gouting flame to the sky. “It’s all falling apart, the way everything does. 
“Listen, listen. If we leave the network to fall over slowly, parts of it will stay online for months. Maybe years. And what will run on it? Malware. Worms. Spam. System-processes. Zone transfers. The things we use fall apart and require constant maintenance. The things we abandon don’t get used and they last forever. We’re going to leave the network behind like a lime-pit filled with industrial waste. That will be our fucking legacy—the legacy of every keystroke you and I and anyone, anywhere ever typed. You understand? We’re going to leave it to die slow like a wounded dog, instead of giving it one clean shot through the head.” 
Van scratched his cheeks, then Felix saw that he was wiping away tears. 
› Sario, you got any food? 
› You won’t miss a couple more meals, Your Excellency. 
Van had gone back to Mayor McCheese but he was in the same channel. 
“What a dick. You’re looking pretty buff, though, dude.” 
Van didn’t look so good. He looked like you could knock him over with a stiff breeze and he had a phlegmy, weak quality to his speech. 
› hey kong everything ok? 
› everything’s fine just had to go kick some ass. 
“How’s the traffic, Van?” 
“Down 25 percent from this morning,” he said. There were a bunch of nodes whose connections routed through them. Presumably most of these were home or commercial customers is places where the power was still on and the phone company’s COs were still alive. 
Every once in a while, Felix would wiretap the connections to see if he could find a person who had news of the wide world. Almost all of it was automated traffic, though: network backups, status updates. Spam. Lots of spam. 
Van cleared his throat, a painful sound. “About that,” he said. “I think it’s going to hit sooner than that. Felix, I don’t think anyone would notice if we just walked away from here.” 
> Maybe all the automatic screening is supposed to catch terrorists. Maybe it will catch a terrorist sooner or later. The problem is that it catches us too, even though we're not doing anything wrong. 
> The more people it catches, the more brittle it gets. If it catches too many people, it dies. 
> Get the idea? 
I pasted in my HOWTO for building a arphid cloner, and some tips for getting close enough to people to read and write their tags. I put my own cloner in the pocket of my vintage black leather motocross jacket with the armored pockets and left for school. I managed to clone six tags between home and Chavez High. 
It was war they wanted. It was war they'd get. 
If you ever decide to do something as stupid as build an automatic terrorism detector, here's a math lesson you need to learn first. It's called "the paradox of the false positive," and it's a doozy. 
Say you have a new disease, called Super-AIDS. Only one in a million people gets Super-AIDS. You develop a test for Super-AIDS that's 99 percent accurate. I mean, 99 percent of the time, it gives the correct result -- true if the subject is infected, and false if the subject is healthy. You give the test to a million people. 
Arthur picked his way through after us, looking vaguely sick. He stumbled to a halt. “Hey,” he called in a hoarse voice. “Hey. We need to stop.” 
I turned back. “Tresting, what the hell—” 
His words came out strangled. “She’s going to obliterate the whole building.” 
I looked at him blankly. Looked, and noticed he had a cellular phone in his hand. 
A phone. When had Arthur gotten a phone? I hadn’t seen him pull one from any of the guards... 
He held it out to Rio. “She wants to talk to you.” 
Rio’s face was unreadable. “Ah,” he said. “I see.” 
“I’m sorry,” Arthur whispered to me. The hand holding the phone was shaking. “So sorry.” 
Horror shorted out my brain. “No,” I said. “ No.” 
“Cas—” tried Rio. 
“You’ve been working for them this whole time?” I cried. 
“No—it ain’t like that—” 
“You betrayed us!” My M4 swung to point at Arthur. “You—!” 
Rio placed a cautious hand on my weapon, shifting it off line. “Cas, it isn’t his fault. Dawna Polk did talk to you, didn’t she?” he said to Arthur. 
"In rare cases, the hallucinogen she took permanently al­ters critical synapses in the brain. I'm fearful she may have abused it to the extent something like that could have oc­curred. No one in the U.S. would have the slightest idea what to do, but I think I may know of an herbal antidote they turned to in ancient times that can repair at least part of the damage. I also knew that getting her back here through nor­mal channels would be impossible." 
"So you had Colonel Ramos and a bunch of his Guate­malan thugs just break in and take her?" I didn't know which part of the story horrified, and angered, me the most. 
"I have the misfortune to know him reasonably well, and I explained it was very important to me, and he agreed to assist. I honestly didn't know where else to turn. I understand there may have been some violence, for which I apologize, but these people have their own way of doing things." He rose and came over and put his hand on my shoulder. "I hope you'll understand." 
The son of a bitch was coming on oily and contrite, when he'd just subcontracted an outright kidnapping. I wanted to kill him. 
It was not the room, which was far more comfortable than Rebecca's own at the farm, nor the lack of view, nor yet the long journey, for she was not conscious of weariness; it was not the fear of a strange place, for she loved new places and courted new sensations; it was because of some curious blending of uncomprehended emotions that Rebecca stood her sunshade in the corner, tore off her best hat, flung it on the bureau with the porcupine quills on the under side, and stripping down the dimity spread, precipitated herself into the middle of the bed and pulled the counterpane over her head. 
In a moment the door opened quietly. Knocking was a refinement quite unknown in Riverboro, and if it had been heard of would never have been wasted on a child. 
Miss Miranda entered, and as her eye wandered about the vacant room, it fell upon a white and tempestuous ocean of counterpane, an ocean breaking into strange movements of wave and crest and billow. 
The tone in which the word was voiced gave it all the effect of having been shouted from the housetops. 
“I’ll have rum,” she said. She was dying, and she wouldn’t die without at least having one drink, once. 
“Good girl,” Ana said. “There’s a war on, after all.” She poured a liquid with the consistency of mud into a tall mug and then added a glug or two of rum and pushed it across the counter then fixed one for herself. “Come and get it, no waitress service here.” 
Valentine took off her too-small shoes and walked over the carpet in her dirty bare feet. It felt like something she barely remembered. Grass? 
The chocolate smelled wonderful. Wonderful was the word for it. It made her full of wonder. Rich. Something from another planet—from heaven, maybe. 
She lifted the mug and felt its warmth seep into her hands. She took a tentative sip and held it in her mouth. 
It was spicy! Was chocolate spicy? She didn’t think so! The rum made her tongue tingle and the heat made its fumes rise in her head, carrying up the chocolate taste and the peppers. Her eyes streamed. Her ears felt like they were full of chocolate. 
“The FBI picked Wilson up this morning,” I said, fast and loud. “Along with a bunch of other people, one of whom is proba- bly an FBI informant. They’re accused of being terrorists, but they aren’t.” 
She rolled her eyes. I guess she thought that’s what happens to stupid people. I was getting fed up with her attitude. 
“I think the informant set them up. That’s what they do. They find people naive enough to talk about how wrong everything is and then they say, ‘yeah, we should do something about it,’ so they all say ‘yeah, totally,’ and then the guy says ‘hey, I know some- one who could get us some explosives, what do you think?’ and pretty soon they’re in jail and it would never have happened with- out some FBI guy talking them into it.” 
“Your point?” 
“Wilson wouldn’t do it. Not really. It’s just that he wanted Zip to like him. The informant. Wilson kind of fell under his spell.” 
“If this Zip . . . “ She shook her head. “Such a ludicrous name. 
If he really is working for the FBI, he’ll have been given strict instructions. They know how to get around an entrapment defense. They give workshops on it. How old is your brother?” 
“I was afraid of that. Even if we can get the terrorism charge to go away, they could be charged with property crimes. Is there a chance that police will have found illegal drugs on the premises?” 
“No doubt. None of those guys are into drugs in a big way, but I’m sure somebody would have had some weed around.” 
“What about guns?” 
“No way. They wouldn’t ... I mean ...” I stumbled to a stop and then started over. “Well, honestly, I can’t be sure. It’s been a while since I talked to Wilson, and things were getting weird even back then.” 
“Weird in what way?” 
“Before Zip showed up, this was a house full of totally laid- back kids who were kind of a family, right? Because none of them had families where they felt like they belonged. They made their own rules and they got along fine and they didn’t bother any- body.” 
“But then an informant entered the picture.” 
“Right. Wilson met Zip at a protest and said “hey, why don’t you crash at our place?” So he moved in and everything changed.” 
"Enough," she said. "As many as I can make. I mostly do commissions, but only with people who come down in person. I won't sell online. Getting off email was the best gift I ever gave myself." 
"You are hard to reach," he said. 
"Nope. I'm easy to reach -- you just have to haul ass here to Pico Rivera. There's even parking, if you're that kind of pervert." 
"I think I see why you aren't interested in capital," he said. "You can't scale this up -- not with all the money in the world." 
"You VCs -- scale, scale, scale! It's all you think of. You're wrong, as it turns out. This business decomposes into four elements: materials acquisition, design, fabrication and retail. They all scale like crazy. 
"Take materials. After the WTO, the Chinese spent 25 years brute-forcing the problem-space of all possible 3D plastic objects that an American might pay money for. There is no shortage of that stuff -- most of it is sitting in international waters somewhere on a container ship, waiting for someone to pay the carbon taxes to land it somewhere. I can bring in all the junk electronics and chassis and parts that I want, and I print the actuators, controllers, wires and the rest of it here. 
“Wait,” I said. The Lancer. Holy shit. “Go back.” 
“I can email you a list,” Tegan offered, oblivious. “With their contact information, such as it is. You may give my name, if you like.” 
“I’d appreciate that,” I said. 
I hung up and stared at my computer screen, not seeing it. 
One of the tidbits Checker had dropped while we searched for Martinez was that the Lancer had gone underground, unwilling to make contact with unknown entities for fear someone was an NSA plant. But if I had a reference from Tegan...if the Lancer could be assured I wasn’t a National Security agent in disguise... 
I wasn’t very good undercover, but that was in real life. Virtually, it would be a lot easier to lie. 
Holy crap. I might be able to track the Lancer when even Checker and the NSA couldn’t. Like I’d told Arthur, this job was over when I said it was, and I owed the Lancer a broken face. 
Of course, none of that helped me find Martinez. I wondered if the Lancer was looking for her, too. If he’d figured out what she’d really proven. 
It was already past the appointed hour for Mr. Cobb and his coach to be lumbering down the street. 
"The stage ought to be here," said Miranda, glancing nervously at the tall clock for the twentieth time. "I guess everything 's done. I've tacked up two thick towels back of her washstand and put a mat under her slop-jar; but children are awful hard on furniture. I expect we sha'n't know this house a year from now." 
Jane's frame of mind was naturally depressed and timorous, having been affected by Miranda's gloomy presages of evil to come. The only difference between the sisters in this matter was that while Miranda only wondered how they could endure Rebecca, Jane had flashes of inspiration in which she wondered how Rebecca would endure them. It was in one of these flashes that she ran up the back stairs to put a vase of apple blossoms and a red tomato-pincushion on Rebecca's bureau. 
The stage rumbled to the side door of the brick house, and Mr. Cobb handed Rebecca out like a real lady passenger. She alighted with great circumspection, put the bunch of faded flowers in her aunt Miranda's hand, and received her salute; it could hardly be called a kiss without injuring the fair name of that commodity. 
“Whassamatter, you fat little cow? Is your game making you cwy?” She jerked as if slapped. The chav who was speaking to her hadn’t been in the Baang when she arrived, and he had mean, close-set eyes and a football jersey and though he wasn’t any older than she, he looked mean, and angry, and his smile was sadistic and crazy. 
“Piss off,” she said, mustering her braveness. 
“You wobbling tub of guts, don’t you DARE speak to me that way,” he said, shouting right in her ear. The Baang fell silent and everyone looked at her. 
“I’m talking to you, girl,” he said. “You disgusting lump of suet—Christ, it makes me wanta puke to look at you. You ever had a boyfriend? How’d he shag you—did he roll yer in flour and look for the wet spot?” 
She reeled back, then stood. She drew her arm back and slapped him, as hard as she could. The boys in the Baang laughed and went whoooooo! He purpled and balled his fists and she backed away from him. The imprint of her fingers stood out on his cheek. 
He bridged the distance between them with a quick step and punched her , in the belly, and the air whooshed out of her and she fell into another player, who pushed her away, so she ended up slumped against the wall, crying. 
“I’ll tell her when we’re alone,” she thought; “and she’ll have to explain—a little, anyhow.” 
Lexy wanted an explanation very much, because she was fond of Caroline, and very sorry for her. 
Mrs....  conservative type, with the most rigid ideas about the bringing up of a young girl, and her husband—Lexy had often wondered what Mr. Enderby had been before his marriage, for now he was nothing but a grave and dignified echo of his wife. Between them, they had educated Caroline in a disastrous fashion. She had never even been to school. She had had governesses at home, and when a male teacher came in, for music or painting lessons, Mrs. Enderby had always sat in the room with her child. Caroline never went out of the house alone. She was utterly cut off from the normal life of other girls. She was a gentle, lovely creature—a little unreal, Lexy had thought her, at first; and she, at first, had been afraid of Lexy. 
Mrs. Enderby had advertised for a secretary, and Lexy had answered the advertisement. Mrs. Enderby had wanted personal references, and Lexy had supplied them, some five or six, of the highest quality. Mrs. Enderby had investigated them with remarkable thoroughness, and had asked Lexy many questions. Indeed, it had taken ten days to satisfy her that Miss Moran was a fit person to come into her house, and Lexy had lived under her roof and under her eagle eye for a month before she was allowed to be alone with Caroline. After that first month, however, Mrs. Enderby had made up her mind that Lexy was to be trusted, and the thin pretext of “secretary” was dropped. 
Checker had unearthed the alcohol in Rio’s kitchen. He’d deemed it necessary, after what we had found. 
“What happened to your no food or drink rule?” I asked. Not that I could blame him. 
“Tequila doesn’t count,” he said, taking another swig. “It’s tequila.” 
To be fair, the alcohol didn’t seem to impair his computer skills at all; his fingers hadn’t slowed on the keyboard. “You almost have my alcohol tolerance,” I said. 
“Well, then you should be drinking, too! I need company in my paroxysm of misery here.” 
“I don’t drink on the job,” I said. “I drink more than enough between jobs.” 
“Between jobs, you say?” He took another swig. “You’re on, Cas Russell.” 
“On for what?” 
“You and me. Drinking contest. Once all this is over. I bet I kick your ass.” 
I highly doubted that, but this wasn’t the time for a pissing contest. I snapped my fingers at him. “Hey. Focus, or I’ll cut you off.” 
“I’m focused!” he protested, and to be fair, even my math ability could only detect the barest elision in the words. “I can’t do this without drinking. Too depressing.” 
We're too late." 
Impossible. 
"I would suggest that we withdraw, Gunnery Sergeant. Before we're seen." 
Ray does not think, cannot think that way. His mind is not wired for comprehension. Consciousness drops, 
sinking below the higher brain functions, burying him in the cool and reptilian stem where thought dies and instinct emerges and primal shadows lurk in cavernous, midnight kingdoms walled off by evolution. He forgets about things like concentrated fire and three round bursts and center of mass. He just sprays bullets into anything that seems prone to moving. Back and forth, like a man watering flowers on a Saturday afternoon. 
The worshippers have no time to react, no space in which to escape, and when Ray fires, his squad erupts in a supporting chorus. For a time, all Ray can hear is the bang and thunderous echo of gunfire. A cacophony of violence shreds bodies, sprays blood, mists the air of the dome with a tangy, cordite haze. He makes dead certain that he plugs Brezhnaya, pops him in the center of his forehead, opens a round hole like a third eye, 
I knew Halliday’s opinion didn’t matter, but her reaction was still like a spike in my chest. “We don’t know they’ll find us,” I argued. “The guys who’ve got us are good, maybe good enough to evade the NSA, and this situation could go very bad at any moment. What if they decide to kill us and rabbit? What if the Feds do track us down, and these guys blow us all to kingdom come to avoid capture? You really want to sit on our hands and hope the government rides out of the woods on white horses?” 
“If Arthur said he’s coming, he’ll be here,” said Halliday. “He’ll come for us.” 
“I’d rather we came for us.” 
She tilted her head at me. “You don’t trust him.” 
“What? No, I do!” I protested, surprised and disconcerted at the conversational left turn. “But trusting Arthur doesn’t mean—come on, there are a thousand things he can’t control. Just because he would want to help us doesn’t mean he’ll be able to come through.” 
“He trusts you to come through,” she said softly. “I can tell.” 
“But I’m—listen, Arthur’s handy with a gun, but I’m way, way better than he is. He trusts me to come through for him because he knows I can.” 
"That." 
"Well, you know what you have to do, right?" 
"What?" She looked pointedly at my keyboard. I could see the tears rolling down her cheeks. "No! You're out of your mind. You think I'm going to run off with some nut off the Internet? Some spy?" 
"You got a better idea?" 
I kicked a pile of her laundry into the air. "Whatever. Fine. I'll talk to her some more." 
"You talk to her," Ange said. "You tell her you and your girlfriend are getting out." 
"What?" 
"Shut up, dickhead. You think you're in danger? I'm in just as much danger, Marcus. It's called guilt by association. When you go, I go." She had her jaw thrust out at a mutinous angle. "You and I -- we're together now. You have to understand that." 
We sat down on the bed together. 
"Unless you don't want me," she said, finally, in a small voice. 
"You're kidding me, right?" 
"Do I look like I'm kidding?" 
"There's no way I would voluntarily go without you, Ange. I could never have asked you to come, but I'm ecstatic that you offered." 
“So these people in Mexico or wherever, what are they doing? They’re earning their living by exploiting the game. You and me, we would never trade cash for gold, or buy a character or a weapon on eBay—it’s cheating. You get gold and weapons through hard work and hard play. But those Mexicans spend all day, every day, crafting stuff to turn into gold to sell off on the exchange. That’s where it comes from —that’s where the crappy players get their gold from! That’s how rich noobs can buy their way into the game that we had to play hard to get into. 
“So we burn them out. If we keep burning the factories down, they’ll shut them down and those kids’ll find something else to do for a living and the game will be better. If no one does that, our work will just get cheaper and cheaper: the game will get less and less fun, too. 
“These people don’t care about the game. To them, it’s just a place to suck a buck out of. They’re not players, they’re leeches, here to suck all the fun out.” 
They had come upon the cottage now, the fourth one, having exterminated four different sniper-nests on the way. 
Lou grunted as though he believed her. I nodded in sym­pathy, though no one seemed to notice. 
I also thought that although what Sarah had said was bi­zarre, it sounded like something more than a dream. Or had she gone back to her child-state where imaginary worlds were real for her? 
Then in the dim glare of her bed light, Lou took a wrinkled blue booklet out of his inner pocket and stared at it. I had to stare at it a moment before I realized it was a passport. 
"What—?" 
"The American consulate in Merida, Mexico, sent it up to 26 Federal Plaza yesterday, because my name and office address are penciled on the inside cover as an emergency contact. The police down there said somebody, some gringo...  the Usumacinta River, near where the Rio Tigre comes in from Guatemala, snagged this floating in a plastic bag. He turned it in to the Mexican authorities there, and it ended up with our people." He opened the passport and stared at it. "The photo and ID page is ripped out, but it's definitely Sarah's." He handed it over. "Guy I know downtown dropped it off last night. I'm not sure if it has anything to tell us, but now, I was hoping it might help jog her memory." 
“Yup! And this is our chance to get in on the ground floor. Are you in?” 
“It’s not—you know, pervy , is it?” 
“Gag me. No. Jeez, Anda! Are you nuts? No—they want us to go kill some guys.” 
“Oh, we’re good at that!” 
The mission took them far from Fahrenheit Island, to a cottage on the far side of the largest continent on the gameworld, which was called Dandelionwine. The travel was tedious, and twice they were ambushed on the trail, something that had hardly happened to Anda since she joined the Fahrenheits: attacking a Fahrenheit was bad for your health, because even if you won the battle, they’d bring a war to you. 
But now they were far from the Fahrenheits’ power-base, and two different packs of brigands waylaid them on the road. Lucy spotted the first group before they got into sword-range and killed four of the six with her bow before they closed for hand-to-hand. Anda’s sword—gigantic and fast—was out then, and her fingers danced over the keyboard as she fought off the player who was attacking her, her body jerking from side to side as she hammered on the multibutton controller beside her. She won—of course! She was a Fahrenheit! Lucy had already slaughtered her attacker. They desultorily searched the bodies and came up with some gold and a couple scrolls, but nothing to write home about. Even the gold didn’t seem like much, given the cash waiting at the end of the mission. 
She mouths one word: wonderful. 
But with a toss of her head, she indicates the space behind her. Someone listening in. He suspects this is supposed to make him feel instantly and utterly abashed, but it doesn't. Whoever it is, he owes them a debt of dignity. 
So he'll have something less awkward to do, Ray thrusts the package of chocolates at her. Grins like an idiot. 
preferably right where he is, even more preferably, without chewing on anything that looks expensive. A brief, but frenzied negotiation results in Emma unwrapping the bundle and handing over a piece of chocolate to placate him. 
She leads him through a brief vestibule of white marble floors, soft wood paneling and fine Grecian urns mounted on Romanesque stone pillars, both of which, Ray suspects, are actual antiquities rather than clever reproductions thereof. Through an arched doorway is a large parlor that is everything one would expect from a Whiston family domestic space. The carpet is plush, white, dreadfully soft. There are leather chairs sprinkled about in chummy groups which break up the uncharacteristic vastness of the open room. Low bookcases neatly arranged with dark leather volumes stamped with gold lettering on the spines line two of the walls. The wall directly to Ray's right is taken up by a massive vid screen, currently dark, but bracketed on each side by fading frescoed tiles, what seem to be remnants of ancient Pompeii. A tasteful assortment of lamps and flowers, flowers hiding lamps, lamps shaped like flowers, generate a white glare that is almost dazzling.  And Ray might be tempted to be dazzled, except he suddenly remembers something Emma had said to him. 
When she opened the door, he was standing right there, taller than her. "I think you're right," he said. "About the network. It's the best explanation I've heard so far." 
She wrapped herself in silence again, waited for him to say more. 
"You see, the true , neutral network is immune to corrupting influences and favoritism. So the existence of corruption and favoritism means that what we've got isn't a true network. Which means you're right! We need to have a hearing to get to the bottom of this, so that we can build the true network." He smiled bravely. "I thought maybe you could use an expert in your corner who'd say that in a hearing?" 
"Thanks," she said, and slipped under his arm and back into the kitchen. Suddenly, she wanted very much to be back at her office, back with her staff, talking to reporters and overseeing a million details. "I'll think about it." 
"I'm giving up my apartment at the end of the month -- next Monday. I won't be able to afford it without the Association's salary," he said. 
"Thanks," I said, automatically, as she unlocked me with a remote and then dragged me to my feet. I hated myself for the automatic politeness, but it had been drilled into me. 
She didn't twitch a muscle. I went ahead of her to the back of the truck and behind the screen. There was a single folding chair and I sat in it. Two of them -- Severe Haircut woman and utility belt man -- looked at me from their ergonomic super-chairs. 
They had a little table between them with the contents of my wallet and backpack spread out on it. 
"Hello, Marcus," Severe Haircut woman said. "We have some questions for you." 
"Am I under arrest?" I asked. This wasn't an idle question. If you're not under arrest, there are limits on what the cops can and can't do to you. For starters, they can't hold you forever without arresting you, giving you a phone call, and letting you talk to a lawyer. And hoo-boy, was I ever going to talk to a lawyer. 
"What's this for?" she said, holding up my phone. The screen was showing the error message you got if you kept trying to get into its data without giving the right password. It was a bit of a rude message -- an animated hand giving a certain universally recognized gesture -- because I liked to customize my gear. 
