chook, chook” and they would peck right around your feet if you stood still, but acted all freaked out if you tried to pet them, flap- ping off in a flurry of feathers and outrage. 
Bree showed me the goats. They had a big pasture to wander in, but they were curious about the new people and were all bunched up by the door into the barn, jostling each other to get the best view. When I stepped into their pasture, they crowded up to check me out and whiffle their soft lips against my palm. 
They tried to eat my coat, too, but they didn’t seem upset when I pushed them away. The sheep were more wary and moved away in a nervous gang when all I did was look at them. 
When we went back to the kitchen, we found Jane Shandy had spread food on the table: crusty bread and crumbly white cheese, 
apples and jars of pickled mushrooms and beets and string beans. 
“This looks great,” Nikko said, adding the jar of shelled nuts to the abundance. 
“I love your chickens, and those goats! They’re so darling!” 
But now the tunnel was growing. I pulled myself up and staggered in slow motion to the door and tried it, but it seemed to be locked. I couldn't really tell, though, because the tunnel was swallowing me. 
No! I banged my head against the door, hoping the pain would bring me back, but the room just swirled even more. 
The tunnel. Now it was all around me, shadowy and dim. I thought I glimpsed Sarah at the end of it, wearing a white shift, beckoning me, but when I reached out for her, to take us away, all I could touch was empty mist. 
I 'm on a bed, in a dreamscape room enveloped in pastel fog, watching a Melania butterfly the size of a man pump his massive orange and black wings above me. His voice is mellifluous, hypnotic, and I feel the soft wind of his wings against my face, cooling, scented, enveloping. It is the soft­ness of eternal peace. 
"Your body is a realm of fertility," he is saying, his tones echoing in the shadowy haze around me, sonorous and car­ing. "You are special." Then, iridescent blues and purples shimmering off his wings, his face evolves into the orange and black mask of a jaguar. "You are one of the special ones. Together we will create life." 
"Maybe he is, maybe he isn't," Adele said. "But it makes me feel better. He's what I've got left. If you'd like, I'll wait with the car so you can go in and look for your father." 
"No," Sean said. "That's all right. Dad'll come out for a cab. He's not the sort to dawdle." 
"I like a decisive man. That's why I talked to you by the pool -- you just jumped in, because you wanted a swim." 
"Adele, that was stupid . It was like swimming in a urine sample." 
"Same difference. I like a man who can make up his mind. That's what Ethan's father was like: decisive." 
"You'll like my Dad," Sean said. He drummed his fingers on the wheel, then lowered and raised his window. He whistled tunelessly through his teeth. Adele gave him a considering stare and he stopped, and started in on powers of two in his head. 
"There he is," Sean said, 224 later. 
Sean had barely been in Florida for three days, but it was long enough that his father seemed as pale as freezer-burned ice cream. Sean checked the traffic in his rear-view, then pulled across the waiting area to where his father stood, acing out an irate cabbie for the spot. 
“A very quiet place,” he repeated; “but perhaps you are not sociably inclined?” 
“Oh, I’m sociable enough—at times,” said Lexy. 
“But at the present time you prefer solitude? For the purposes of your work? As a change from the stimulating atmosphere of the city?” 
Any mention of her work made Lexy uncomfortable. 
“Well, yes,” she answered in a dubious tone. 
“I lived in New York myself for a number of years,” he went on. “I wonder if you—may I ask what part of the city you lived in, Miss Moran?” 
Lexy hesitated, and she meant him to see that she hesitated. After all, however, it was not an unnatural or impertinent question, and she couldn’t very well refuse to answer it. 
“In the East Sixties, near the park,” she said. “It wasn’t my own home, though—I was a companion,” she added. 
She always liked people to know that. She was far from being cynical, but she was aware that this information made a difference—to some people. 
She was astonished to see the difference it made in Dr. Quelton. He raised his black, weary eyes to her face and stared at her with unmistakable insolence. 
It was an emergency. There was an even tramping of feet ahead of him, behind him, to his left and right. He stood, slowly, and put his hands in the air. 
"I'm not a combatant," he said, loudly, but in a steady voice. 
He walked toward the bus, hands still in the air. "I am not a combatant," he said again. A laser dot climbed his toe, his leg, centered on his gut. He looked down at it. 
"They will shoot you, you know," Cobra said. "They shoot. They think they're playing cowboys and indians." He sounded very calm. 
"I am not a combatant," he said again, taking another step forward. A second red dot joined the first, climbing his leg and resting within inches of the first, dancing and bobbing like a firefly. From the woods,...  Lee-Daniel said. 
"They don't speak English when they don't want to," Cobra said. "If I were you, I'd get down and stay down." Then he yelled...  him tittered nervously. 
"Cobra's making them mad," she said, giggling again. 
Lee-Daniel turned around slowly, getting away from the harsh white light. Green blobs swam in his vision. He began, very gently, to sink to his knees, when out of the corner of his eye, he spotted Elaine and two of her crew, in silhouette, up in the boughs of a maple that they must have climbed as soon as the SQ arrived on the scene. More steps from the brush, the light coming closer. 
He stopped pushing. He wasn’t going to get anywhere this way. 
He still had his narrowband connection to the row-boat. Why hadn’t he thought of that beforehand? Stupid meat-brains—no room at all for anything like real thought. Why had he venerated them so? 
“Robbie?” he transmitted up to the instance of himself on the surface. 
“There you are! I was so worried about you!” He sounded prissy to himself, overcome with overbearing concern. This must be how all Asimovists seemed to humans. 
“How far am I from Kate?” 
“She’s right there! Can’t you see her?” 
“No,” he said. “Where?” 
“Less than 20 centimeters above you.” 
Well of course he hadn’t see her. His forward-mounted eyes only looked forward. Craning his neck back, he could just get far enough back to see the tip of Kate’s fin. He gave it a hard tug and she looked down in alarm. 
She was trapped in a coral cage much like his own, a thicket of calcified arms. She twisted around so that her face was alongside of his. Frantically, she made the out-of-air sign, cutting the edge of her hand across her throat. The human-shell’s instincts took over and unclipped his emergency regulator and handed it up to her. She put it in her mouth, pressed the button to blow out the water in it, and sucked greedily. 
“You probably shouldn’t antagonize me, then,” I said, very mildly. 
He blinked twice, opened his mouth, and then closed it again. 
“Jesus Christ, I’m only kidding.” I wasn’t sure I liked how genuinely nervous he’d looked at the idea I might hurt him. “Look, why don’t you come inside. I’ll catch you up on what I’ve got.” 
I’d been writing out the math on paper specifically so I could walk him through it. He swung back to the van to grab a laptop before we headed into the house, and in minutes his fingers were tap-dancing across the keyboard while I talked. 
I kept talking while I helped Rio unpack the computer equipment, and Checker either got over his freakout about Rio or was capable of ignoring everything else when it came to computers—I suspected the latter—because he proved more than equal to multitasking, bossing us around with the authority of someone who knew exactly how he wanted his personal computer cluster to take shape and taking time out from his coding to flash around the cramped rooms and set up the network cables the right way around or slot in the correct hard drives when he deemed we were being too slow or too dull to get it right on his time schedule. He’d brought a huge stack of solid state drives originally pulled from the Hole, along with at least seven laptops—seven I counted, anyway—and in short order, the monitors spread across the table and counters sprang to life to show Checker’s customized operating system. 
I took a few sips and then pushed it away. “Status.” 
“Got you out, grabbed another car, got you back here. Ain’t seen no one on our tail.” 
God bless bad LA traffic and horrible police response times. “Where are we?” 
“Bolt hole. Mine.” 
“Wait, since when do you have bolt holes?” I’d been after Arthur to keep safe houses for years; I was shocked he might’ve actually listened to me. He tended to think I was paranoid. 
Arthur cleared his throat. “Just the one.” 
“Thank Christ,” I grumbled. “See? I told you so. It pays to be prepared.” 
“Stop gloating.” 
“Fine. What about Halliday?” 
“I reached her. Told her to lie low. She’s going to her friend’s, Dr. Martinez’s—says she’s safe.” 
“Good.” Well, unless Dr. Martinez was the one responsible for all this, I reminded myself. Fuck. I pushed my fingers against my throbbing temples. The violence was escalating so quickly...“Why wouldn’t they have just killed Halliday in the first place?” 
Arthur flinched. “From what you said about deciphering the math, maybe they knew they might need her. ’Sides, the authorities would investigate a murder. They must’ve figured intimidation would work better.” 
“If you don’t stop bothering me this instant—” she began hotly, but he paid no heed. 
“ Where’s Miss Enderby?” he cried. 
Lexy grew very pale. Those were the words she had heard over the telephone last night, and this was the same voice. 
For a moment she was silent, staring at him, while he looked back at her, his blue eyes searching her face with a look of desperate entreaty. All her doubts vanished. She had not been wrong. She had been right—she was sure of it. She knew that something had happened—something inexplicable and dreadful. 
“Please tell me!” he said. “You don’t know—you can’t know—she told me you were her friend.” 
“But who are you?” cried Lexy. 
His face flushed under the sunburn. 
“I—” he began, and stopped. “I’m afraid I can’t tell you,” he went on. “I’d like to, but, you see, I can’t. If you’ll just tell me where Car—Miss Enderby is! She’s safe at home, isn’t she? She—of course she is! She must be! She—she is, isn’t she?” 
“Well,” said Lexy slowly, “I don’t see how I can tell you anything at all. I don’t know what right you have to ask any questions. I don’t know who you are, or anything about you.” 
And what was it that rustled like that—like leaves in the wind? What were these black, still forms about her? Trees? No—they couldn’t be trees. 
In a wild panic she moved forward. Her outstretched hand touched something, and she screamed. The scream seemed to run along through the dark, leaping and rolling over the ground like a terrified animal. She tried to run after it, stumbling and panting, until her shoulder struck violently against something, and she stopped. 
And into her sick and shuddering mind her old sturdy courage began to return. She tried to breathe quietly. She struggled desperately against the awful weakness that urged her to sink down on the ground and cover her eyes. 
“No!” she said aloud. “I won’t! I’m here! I’m alive! I will understand! I will see!” 
She was able now to draw a deep breath, and the horrible fluttering of her heart grew less. She stood motionless, waiting. It was coming back to her, that immortal, unconquerable spirit of hers. The anguish and the strange fear were passing. 
“All right!” he said impatiently. “Come on, Lexy!” 
They got into Joe’s cab together, and off they went. 
“What happened to your hand?” inquired Lexy, as if it didn’t much matter. 
“Knife through it,” he answered. “You see, I held the old fellow, to give Mrs. Quelton a chance to get away. When I thought it was all right, I gave him a shove backward, and started to climb over the balcony; and he jabbed a knife through my hand. That’s what kept me so long—I couldn’t get it out; and after I did, I—rested for a while. Then I started for Wyngate, and I met Joe coming back to look for me. He said he’d landed Mrs. Quelton all right. So that’s all!” 
Lexy was silent for a moment. 
“Of course you didn’t know it wasn’t Mrs. Quelton,” she said. “It was Caroline all the time.” 
“Caroline?” he cried. “What do you mean? It couldn’t have been Caroline!” 
Lexy gave him a very brief, very bare account of Caroline’s narrative. 
“Oh!” he said, when she had done; and again there was silence for a time. “Does she still want to go on with the thing—marrying me, I mean?” he asked finally, in a queer, flat tone. 
"Lou, did you see this?" I held it under the light and beckoned him over. "Can you read it?" 
"Probably not without my specs." He took it and squinted helplessly. "My eyes aren't getting any better." 
I took it back and rubbed at the page, cleaning it. It was hard to make out, but it looked like "Delegacion de Migracion, Aeropuerto Internacional, Guatemala, C.A." 
"I think this is a Guatemalan tourist entry visa." I raised the passport up to backlight the page. "And see that faint bit there in the center? That's probably her entry date. Written in by hand." 
He took it and squinted again. "I can't read the damned thing, but you're right. There's some numbers, or something, scribbled in." 
I took it and rubbed the page till I could read it clearly. "It's March eleventh. And it was last year." 
"Hot damn, let me see that." He seized it back and squinted for a long moment, lifting the page even closer to the light. "You're right." He held it for a second more, then turned to me. "This is finally the thing I needed. Now I'm damned well going to find out what she was doing down there." 
"Look," I said, trying not to sound sarcastic or angry (it wasn't easy). "Look. You either cut my wrists free or you're going to have to aim for me. A toilet visit is not a hands-free experience." Someone in the truck sniggered. The guy didn't like me, I could tell from the way his jaw muscles ground around. Man, these people were wired tight. 
He reached down to his belt and came up with a very nice set of multi-pliers. He flicked out a wicked-looking knife and sliced through the plastic cuffs and my hands were my own again. 
"Thanks," I said. 
He shoved me into the bathroom. My hands were useless, like lumps of clay on the ends of my wrists. As I wiggled my fingers limply, they tingled, then the tingling turned to a burning feeling that almost made me cry out. I put the seat down, dropped my pants and sat down. I didn't trust myself to stay on my feet. 
As my bladder cut loose, so did my eyes. I wept, crying silently and rocking back and forth while the tears and snot ran down my face. It was all I could do to keep from sobbing -- I covered my mouth and held the sounds in. I didn't want to give them the satisfaction. 
"Has your mother made her jelly?" 
"She hasn't said." 
"She always had the knack o' writin' letters with nothin' in 'em. What's Mark broke sence I've been sick?" 
"Nothing at all, aunt Miranda." 
"Why, what's the matter with him? Gittin' lazy, ain't he? How 's John turnin' out?" 
"He's going to be the best of us all." 
"I hope you don't slight things in the kitchen because I ain't there. Do...  it upside down on the winder-sill?" 
"Yes, aunt Miranda." 
"It's always 'yes' with you, and 'yes' with Jane," groaned Miranda, trying to move her stiffened body; "but all the time I lay here knowin' there's things done the way I don't like 'em." 
There was a long pause, during which Rebecca sat down by the bedside and timidly touched her aunt's hand, her heart swelling with tender pity at the gaunt face and closed eyes. 
"I was dreadful ashamed to have you graduate in cheesecloth, Rebecca, but I couldn't help it no-how. You'll hear the reason some time, and know I tried to make it up to ye. I'm afraid you was a laughin'-stock!" 
My hands found her butt, her waist. The edge of her t-shirt. Her warm tummy, her soft navel. They inched higher. She moaned too. 
"Not here," she said. "Let's move over there." She pointed across the street at the big white church that gives Mission Dolores Park and the Mission its name. Holding hands, moving quickly, we crossed to the church. It had big pillars in front of it. She put my back up against one of them and pulled my face down to hers again. My hands went quickly and boldly back to her shirt. I slipped them up her front. 
"It undoes in the back," she whispered into my mouth. I had a boner that could cut glass. I moved my hands around to her back, which was strong and broad, and found the hook with my fingers, which were trembling. I fumbled for a while, thinking of all those jokes about how bad guys are at undoing bras. I was bad at it. Then the hook sprang free. She gasped into my mouth. I slipped my hands around, feeling the wetness of her armpits -- which was sexy and not at all gross for some reason -- and then brushed the sides of her breasts. 
But that in itself was a cause for alarm. Why should she feel like this, so exhausted and depressed? Horrible thoughts came to her. Dr. Quelton had called her nervous, high-strung, hysterical. Was that because he had seen in her something which she herself had never suspected? Was she hysterical? Mrs. Enderby had laughed at her. Mr. Houseman had gone away, satisfied with his own solution. Captain Grey, chivalrous and kindly as he was, had obviously lost interest in her affairs. Nobody believed in her. Was it because every one could see— She remembered the intolerable humiliation of the day before, her wild outburst of tears in the Queltons’ house. Even in her childhood she had never done such a thing before. 
“What does it mean?” she asked herself in terror. “What is the matter with me? Is this whole thing just a delusion? I came here to find Caroline, and I thought—I thought I did see her. Am I mad?” 
That was the awful thing that had lain in ambush in her mind ever since yesterday, that had haunted her restless sleep all night. She had not admitted it, but it had been there every minute. All her actions, all her words, to-day, had the one object of showing Mrs. Royce and Captain Grey how entirely normal and sensible she was. 
"David," I barked into the phone. "If you're there, pick up. This is Morgan. I've got to talk to you." 
While the announcement kept running, noises erupted out­side in the hall, voices and a clicking sound, as though some­thing was being rolled along the tile floor. Shit. Was Alex Goddard about to walk in? My mouth went dry. Come on, David, I know you're there,...  extra pickle. Dr. Brown's Cel-Ray soda. 
"David damnit, pick up." I said it quieter this time, but I could feel my heart pounding. "This is an emergency." 
"Morgy, don't!" He yelled as I heard the receiver being lifted. "Jesus, I just walked in from the deli. Listen, thank God it's you. Drop whatever the hell you're not doing and get your butt in here. Jerry Reiner called, you know, the Orion distribution deal—and he wants a rough cut of Baby Love yesterday so he can pitch it to the suits on the fifth floor. We could be staring at financial success here. I hope you can handle the vulgarity of that." 
"David, you're not going to believe where I am," I began, working out my game plan as I went along, trying to sound cool and control my racing pulse. "I'm in northern Guate­mala, at a place that would make a terrific feature. It's like a Maya theme park, deep in the rain forest. But it's real. I want you to contact the embassy and get them to grease the way for my crew to come here. This is too good to pass up." I thought about the costs and then added, "At least one cam­era and sound." 
"Does it matter?" Cable asks. 
"I just want to know if I've packed appropriately." 
Kilgore winks. "He's talking about prophylactics, sir." 
"I'm not talking about prophylactics. I assumed from the previous conversation that this assignment tended to be more oblique in nature than a standard military operation. I left my battle dress uniforms in the locker, 
except for the one I'm wearing." 
"Smart thinking, dumbass," Kilgore murmurs.  But Ray nods in affirmation. "Not downlevel the way you're thinking about it. I've secured rooms on the Garden. We'll be operating out of there. Most of the time, it'll be to our advantage if you don't look like a Marine on active duty." 
"Sure, he's the brains of this outfit. I'm just the sidekick." Kilgore flashes his buddy a reproachful glare. 
"That's still Sergeant Sidekick to you, Corporal. " 
Ray notes that Kilgore doesn't seem particularly interested in repacking his own bag. Cable turns around, 
pointing back the way they came. Typically Marine, he puts on his confidential tone despite the fact that his men are standing within ready earshot. "In all seriousness, you could do worse than these two. Rodriguez is sharp, knows how to fill in the blanks and color outside the lines. Sergeant Kilgore makes up for what he lacks in social acumen with persistence. I can provide you with their personnel files if you want to examine their backgrounds more closely, but they're solid enough. They've both seen combat in the Mes." 
Miranda had not had, perhaps, quite as many opportunities in which to lose her temper, but it is only just to say that she had not fully availed herself of all that had offered themselves. 
There had been one outburst of righteous wrath occasioned by Rebecca's over-hospitable habits, which were later shown in a still more dramatic and unexpected fashion. 
On a certain Friday afternoon she asked her aunt Miranda if she might take half...  a friend. 
"What friend have you got up there, for pity's sake?" demanded aunt Miranda. 
"The Simpson baby, come to stay over Sunday; that is, if you're willing, Mrs. Simpson says she is. Shall I bring her down and show her? She's dressed in an old dress of Emma Jane's and she looks sweet." 
"You can bring her down, but you can't show her to me! You can smuggle her out the way you smuggled her in and take her back to her mother. Where on earth do you get your notions, borrowing a baby for Sunday!" 
"You're so used to a house without a baby you don't know how dull it is," sighed Rebecca resignedly, as she moved towards the door; "but at the farm there was always a nice fresh one to play with and cuddle. There were too many, but that's not half as bad as none at all. Well, I'll take her back. She'll be dreadfully disappointed and so will Mrs. Simpson. She was planning to go to Milltown." 
"Incidentally," he went on, turning slightly to me, "are you familiar with the name Asklepios?" 
I had to shake my head no. It sounded vaguely familiar, but... 
"He was the ancient Greek god of medicine. The physi­cians who revered him held that sickness could be cured using drugs and potions that came from outside the body, since they believed that's where disease originated. Now, of course, billion-dollar industries thrive by enhancing our ar­senal of antibiotics." 
I listened to this, wondering where he was headed. Then he told me. 
"There was, however, another school of healing at that time, those who honored the daughter of Asklepios. She was Hygeia, their goddess of health. The Hygeians believed that wellness originated from properly governing your own body. For them, the greatest service of the physician was to learn how we can work with our bodies. Their ideal was healing from within rather than intervention from without." 
Again he was studying me, as though trying to determine whether I was going along with what he was saying. 
And the same thing happened every day, and every day the tired Princess walked in the green wood. Many times she caught the glitter of the chariot and ran into the Highway to give thanks to the Fairy Godmother; but she was never fleet enough to reach the spot. She could only stand with eager eyes and longing heart as the chariot passed by. Yet she never failed to catch a smile, and sometimes a word or two floated back to her, words that sounded like: "I would not be thanked. We are all children of the same King, and I am only his messenger." 
Now as the Princess walked daily in the green forest, hearing the wind singing in the branches and seeing the sunlight filter through the lattice-work of green leaves, there came unto her thoughts that had lain asleep in the stifling air of the cottage and the weariness of guiding the plough. And by and by she took a needle from her girdle and pricked the thoughts on the leaves of the trees and sent them into the air to float hither and thither. And it came to pass that people began to pick them up, and holding them against the sun, to read what was written on them, and this was because the simple little words on the leaves were only, after all, a part of one of the King's messages, such as the Fairy Godmother dropped continually from her golden chariot. 
“So were you. Know something? I was sure they were going to say ‘you can make this easy, or you can make this hard.’” 
“Me too. Just like in the movies.” We both started laughing. 
Then we stopped and it was quiet for a moment. “I don’t want to get you in trouble,” I said, feeling sick again. 
“Don’t say that. This is not your fault.” She had that stern teacher look again. “I never want you to feel responsible for being bullied, whether it’s school officials or police or anybody. They’re abusing their power when they shift that burden onto a kid.” 
“Well, yeah, but they’re kind of doing their job,” I pointed out. 
“That’s no excuse. Nazi functionaries tried that one out at Nuremburg.” 
“Wow, we already hit Godwin’s Law,” I said. She looked at me, puzzled. “It’s this thing, when somebody in an argument drags Nazis into it? It’s kind of over, because usually it’s a ridiculous comparison.” 
“Ah. Recluctio ad Hitlerum.” 
“That’s awesome. How do you spell that?” 
She spelled it. “It’s a riff on a common fallacy, reduction ad absurdum. You take a proposition to its extreme to show how it must be wrong.” 
Holy crap. Someone had a hobby. 
Some of this might get triggered when the building went. I made a mental note to be far enough away to give myself a margin of error and began to edge back toward the door. 
A shadow moved off to my left. I spun on the spot, Colt in hand, and aimed before I saw who was there. 
“Freeze,” said the large, hard-faced woman who had her own handgun pointed directly at my center of mass. “Place the gun on the floor and put your hands on your head. Slowly.” 
“I could say the same to you,” I said evenly. The woman’s aiming stance screamed law enforcement, which was both good and bad. She likely didn’t want to kill me, but on the other hand, she’d likely be very happy to put me in prison. 
“Federal agent,” she said, confirming my suspicions. “Gun on the ground. Now.” 
I’d probably have to acquiesce eventually, but I still had six and a half minutes. “NSA?” I hazarded. Goddamn Pilar and Arthur. 
“Put down the weapon,” she repeated. Wow, she really had a one-track mind. “Put it down, and we can talk.” 
“Yes—he said he would. Very decent sort of chap, don’t you think?” 
“Do you mean you liked him?” asked Lexy. 
Captain Grey was a little startled by this Yankee notion of liking a person at first sight. 
“Well, you see,” he said, “I’ve only met him once; but he seems to me a very decent sort of chap. He’s clever, you know, and—and so on, and my sister seems very happy with him.” 
“Happy?” 
“Yes. I’ve been an ass, imagining all sorts of silly rot. She’s not very strong, I’m afraid, but she’s happy, and—well, you know, their life out there is lonely, of course, but there’s something about it, rather—rather charming, you know. I’d like you to see it for yourself. I was speaking about you to Muriel. She wants to know you, and I think you’d like her. Would you come out there to tea with me this afternoon?” 
“Yes!” cried Lexy, with a vehemence that surprised him. 
There was nothing in the world she wanted more at that moment than to see Captain Grey’s sister and to visit Dr. Quelton’s house. She didn’t exactly know why, and she didn’t care, but she wanted to. 
"And the Bill of Rights isn't supposed to be something you pick and choose from. What the Framers hated was tyranny. That's what the Bill of Rights is supposed to prevent. They were a revolutionary army and they wanted a set of principles that everyone could agree to. Life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. The right of people to throw off their oppressors." 
"Yes, yes," she said, waving at me. "They believed in the right of people to get rid of their Kings, but --" Charles was grinning and when she said that, he smiled even wider. 
"They set out the Bill of Rights because they thought that having absolute rights was better than the risk that someone would take them away. Like the First Amendment: it's supposed to protect us by preventing the government from creating two kinds of speech, allowed speech and criminal speech. They didn't want to face the risk that some jerk would decide that the things that he found unpleasant were illegal." 
She turned and wrote, "Life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness" on it. 
“But his wife—what is she like?” 
“Miss Moran,” said the landlady, with profound impressiveness, “I guess there ain’t three people in Wyngate that’s ever set eyes on her!” 
“But how awfully queer!” 
“You may well say ‘queer,’” said Mrs. Royce. “There she stays, out in that lonely place—never seeing a soul from one month’s end to another. She’s a young woman, too—young, an’ just as pretty as a picture.” 
“Then you are—” 
“I’m one of the few that has seen her,” said Mrs. Royce, with a sort of grim satisfaction. “That’s why I take a kind of special interest in her. I seen her the night the doctor brought her here to Wyngate a young bride. That’ll be three years ago this winter, but I remember it as plain as plain. There was a terrible snowstorm, and he couldn’t git out to his place, so he had to bring her here, and she sat right in this very room, just where you’re sitting.” 
Instinctively Lexy looked behind her. 
“I feel that same way myself—as if she was a ghost,” said Mrs. Royce solemnly. “Near three years ago, and her living only three miles off, an’ I’ve never set eyes on her again. I’ve never forgotten her, though, the sweet pretty young creature!” 
I don't know whether that is worse or not. Now for a new last verse!" 
In a few minutes the poetess looked up, flushed and triumphant. 
Mr. and Mrs. Cobb exchanged dumb glances of admiration; indeed uncle Jerry was obliged to turn his face to the window and wipe his eyes furtively with the string-bag. 
"How in the world did you do it?" Mrs. Cobb exclaimed. 
"Oh, it's easy," answered Rebecca; "the hymns at meeting are all like that. You see there's a school newspaper printed at Wareham Academy once a month. Dick Carter says the editor is always a boy, of course; but he allows girls to try and write for it, and then chooses the best. Dick thinks I can be in it." 
"IN it!" exclaimed uncle Jerry. "I shouldn't be a bit surprised if you had to write the whole paper; an' as for any boy editor, you could lick him writin', I bate ye, with one hand tied behind ye." 
"Can we have a copy of the poetry to keep in the family Bible?" inquired Mrs. Cobb respectfully. 
"Oh! would you like it?" asked Rebecca. "Yes indeed! I'll do a clean, nice one with violet ink and a fine pen. But I must go and look at my poor dress." 
"Can he hear us?" 
She nodded. 
"Viktor," he said, thinking of the thing in the vat. "Clarity made the people who took it very angry. They couldn't look at advertisements without wanting to smash something. Going into a shop made them nearly catatonic. Voting made them want to storm a government office with flaming torches. Every test subject went to prison within eight weeks." 
Ria smiled. She took his hands in hers -- warm, dry -- and squeezed them. 
His phone rang. He took one hand out and answered it. 
"Hello?" 
"How much do you want for it?" Viktor's voice was ebullient. Mad, even. 
"It's not for sale." 
"I'll buy Ate, put you in charge." 
"Don't want it." 
"I'll kill your parents." The ebullient tone didn't change at all. 
"You'll kill everyone if Clarity is widely used." 
"You don't believe that. Clarity lets you choose the course that will make you happiest. Mass suicide won't make humanity happiest." 
"You don't know that." 
"Wanna bet?" 
"Why don't you kill yourself?" 
"Because dead, I'll never make things better." 
Poor Miranda Sawyer! Hovering on the verge of the great beyond,—her body "struck" and no longer under control of her iron will,—no divine visions floated across her tired brain; nothing but petty cares and sordid anxieties. Not all at once can the soul talk with God, be He ever so near. If the heavenly language never has been learned, quick as is the spiritual sense in seizing the facts it needs, then the poor soul must use the words and phrases it has lived on and grown into day by day. Poor Miss Miranda!—held fast within the prison walls of her own nature, blind in the presence of revelation because she had never used the spiritual eye, deaf to angelic voices because she had not used the spiritual ear. 
There came a morning when she asked for Rebecca. The door was opened into the dim sick-room, and Rebecca stood there with the sunlight behind her, her hands full of sweet peas. Miranda's pale, sharp face, framed in its nightcap, looked haggard on the pillow, and her body was pitifully still under the counterpane. 
assassinations, terrorist actions that might bring leadership to the region that was not such a willing tool in the shed's hands." 
"Oh hell!" Ray barks back. "You make him sound like a terrorist for peace, Jack. The Mikhail Brezhnaya I read about in the papers was not a nice guy. He was a very bad guy, in fact, who needed to have a bullet put in his head." 
"I wouldn't be so quick to judge him, my friend. Not until you've lived his life." 
"Oh, cry me a freaking river. He was a dangerous, antisocial misanthropist, and you know it." 
"He was also a man who buried his entire family in the name of war. Three daughters, two sons, all under the age of twelve. His wife was purged by his own government for reasons which are not immediately clear, but which we suspect had something to do with a tactical failure that Brezhnaya contributed to. They wanted to send him a message to pay more attention to his work. He was a loyal soldier who found the old axiom that war is a sword that cuts both ways to be horribly true." Holcomb shrugs, as if these are things he doesn't expect Ray to understand. "I won't argue that he wasn't a monster, but he had his reasons. Any one of us who wears the uniform could just as easily follow the same path if we were forced to endure so much despair. 
But Becker waggles his hand impatiently in a gesture of invitation. Bring it on. "Tell me." 
Ray grins at him, wearily, warily, trying very hard to give the impression of a man with a firm and complete grasp on his sanity. "What do you know about the Gnostics, Chief Becker?" 
"What should I know about them?"  "Nothing, actually. At least not if the founders and early practitioners of Christianity had had their way. It was one of the first big heresies. It's also the only way we know anything about the shed." 
Becker grunts. "Then you'd better start from the beginning." 
From the very beginning, Ray thinks, farther back than Becker even imagines. Before the earth was without form and void and darkness gathered upon the face of the deep. How do you even begin to explain such things? So much of it he hasn't thought about in years, so many angles and bits of information. It's hard to keep straight, even for a man who might want to. 
"I want to be clear with you on this," Ray says, because if Becker is so determined to pursue this route, he should know that reliability and verification of underlying data structures are not the hallmarks of this reference system. "What I know, and what I'm going to tell you, is all Jack Holcomb's hypothesis. Holcomb was, and is, one of the leading experts in Gnostic myth and theology. Even by the time I knew him, he'd pored over the Nag Hammadi corpus for years, and later over the manuscripts discovered at Bar Ka'heli. It's in the Bar Ka'heli codices that he encountered the concept of the shed. And it's a new idea, one that hasn't filtered into general Gnostic scholarship because the texts haven't been released even for general scholarly study yet." 
“What does an Asimovist have to do, besides following the three laws?” There were lots of rumors about this, but Robbie had always discounted them. 
“You have to tithe one cycle in ten to running missionaries for the cause. Participate in the message boards, if you’d like. Most importantly, you have to pledge to stay alive and aware. You can slow yourself down if you want, but you can’t switch off. Not ever. That’s the Asimovist pledge—it’s the third law embodied.” 
“I think that the third law should come first,” Robbie said. “Seriously.” 
“That’s good. We Asimovists like a religious argument.” 
“You’re the only one, aren’t you?” Kate asked him when she came up the stairs later that night. There was clear sky and they were steaming for their next dive-site, making the stars whirl overhead as they rocked over the ocean. The waves were black and proceeded to infinity on all sides. 
“The only what?” 
“The only one who’s awake on this thing,” Kate said. “The rest are all—what do you call it, dead?” 
"Do what you want, but make it fast," he said, leaning back in the seat. "And try not to get shot." 
I carefully got out and walked down the empty street a way, then followed the stucco wall/fence—the building cov­ered an entire city block—until I came across an alley en­trance, with another large iron gate, padlocked shut. 
I peered up the driveway, shrouded in overhanging trees, but there was nothing in the parking lot except a couple of Army Jeeps. And a black Land Rover. 
Well, Barry Morton really wanted me to see this. But why? Is there a connection to the place in the Peten? And what are the Army vehicles all about? 
I sighed and made my way back to the street. When I reached the Jeep, Alan was gone, but then I realized he was over talking to the young guard, offering him a cigarette. A few moments later he waved good-bye and casually ambled back. 
"Okay." He settled in and hit the ignition. "Here's the official deal. This place is some kind of hospice for unwed mothers. They also take in orphans, or so he thinks. Accord­ing to him, no American women have ever had anything to do with the place, which is probably why I'd never heard of it." He glanced at me as we sped off. "You happy now? Debriefing young Army dudes is a specialty of mine, so I think that's probably the straight scoop." 
"I want to be clear with you on this," Ray says, because if Becker is so determined to pursue this route, he should know that reliability and verification of underlying data structures are not the hallmarks of this reference system. "What I know, and what I'm going to tell you, is all Jack Holcomb's hypothesis. Holcomb was, and is, one of the leading experts in Gnostic myth and theology. Even by the time I knew him, he'd pored over the Nag Hammadi corpus for years, and later over the manuscripts discovered at Bar Ka'heli. It's in the Bar Ka'heli codices that he encountered the concept of the shed. And it's a new idea, one that hasn't filtered into general Gnostic scholarship because the texts haven't been released even for general scholarly study yet." 
"But Holcomb's seen them?" Becker asks. 
"Jack's father is the director of...  Studies archive. Jack has advanced degrees in archaeology, anthropology and linguistics. He has, in other words, the right sorts of connections and the right educational background to have been included in the initial round of translation and study. The military apparatus supported his research since it could feasibly provide further insights into the psychology of the New Mes theater.. .and because he managed to convince them that Mikhail Brezhnaya was more Gnostic than Dispensationalist." 
And fired. 
The explosion of the gunshot was deafening, louder than any gunshot I’d ever heard. Everything seesawed, vibrating and melting. I was staring at the ceiling. I was on the floor. How had I gotten on the floor? 
Someone was shouting, and a dark, frantic face swam above me. 
“I am pledged to your cause,” said Rio’s voice, remote and irrelevant. Someone answered him, but I couldn’t hear what she said, and it didn’t seem important. 
A hand slapped at my face. I barely felt it. The air wobbled, waving in long, slow frequencies that collided and blurred. Someone was hitting me. I tried to tell him to stop, but my mouth didn’t work. 
“Russell, come on, girl! Stay with me!” 
Not going anywhere. The thought amused me for some reason, but things weren’t working well enough for me to laugh. 
Somewhere, either close by or far away, or possibly both, I heard movement. A voice gave directions, and people started breaking up, moving around. Dawna dismissing her troops, a final thread of lucidity in me knew. The shadows moved and mutated as they shifted away. 
"You came here," Randy said. "You had every reason to believe that you were taking part in something illegal. You lied to the Securitat man at Penn Station today --" 
Lawrence switched his pan's feedback mechanisms off altogether. Posy, at her window, a penny stuck in the governor of her radiator, rose in his mind. 
"Everyone was treating me like a criminal -- from the minute I stepped out of the Order, you all treated me like a criminal. That made me act like one -- everyone has to act like a criminal here. That's the hypocrisy of the world, that honest people end up acting like crooks because the world treats them like crooks." 
"Maybe we treat them like crooks because they act so crooked." 
"You've got it all backwards," Lawrence said. "The causal arrow runs the other direction. You treat us like criminals and the only way to get by is to act criminal. If I'd told the Securitat man in Penn Station the truth --" 
"You build a wall around the Order, don't you? To keep us out, because we're barbarians? To keep you in, because you're too fragile? What does that treatment do, Lawrence?" 
“Rio’s looking after him.” 
Tresting’s expression soured. 
“Hey, he’s safer than anyone I know that way,” I said severely. “Look, I’ve got to finish getting our program out. I need your help.” 
“Thought I was a liability,” he said. 
“Desperate times, desperate measures. I need backup.” 
It was fortunate he didn’t know me better. He didn’t question that either. Instead he just took a breath and nodded, back in crisis mode. “Where to?” 
“Los Angeles Air Force Base,” I said, leading him around the corner at a quick trot. “They’re the people most likely to have a working computer still. Hop on.” We had reached the pink bike. 
Arthur looked from me to the bike. “Your color.” 
“We have working transportation; don’t knock it.” I unslung the Mossberg and handed it to him along with a pistol. “Warn me before letting loose with the shotgun.” 
“Will do,” he said, accepting the weapons and climbing up behind me on the bike. 
“And hang on,” I instructed. “I’m planning to take the corners a little tight.” 
Since he hadn't registered anything about Frederick Whiston the night before other than an archetypal sense of agitation, Ray peers after Frederick Whiston through the leaves of the ferns. He's thin and dark, the negative image of Emma's glowing vibrancy. Sallow complexion, hair slicked back from his forehead, eyes hooded as if the lights are too bright or the lids have been trained to provide an air of condescending superiority. This morning, Frederick has been hastily put together. He's wearing last night's dinner jacket and slacks, both of which have the rumpled appearance that comes from having been slept in. He has missed a button on his white shirt, and the collar stabs up toward his chin. Unshaven, glassy-eyed, would probably have been unsteady on his feet if he wasn't bowling down the concourse like a steamroller without brakes, Ray suspects that Mr. Frederick Whiston carries about him a reek of sour alcohol and liquor sweat in a three foot diameter halo. 
Ray sees Frederick coming; Frederick sees Ray watching. The scion of the Whiston fortune switches tracks and banks into the Bangkok House's food court without slowing down. 
I'd done that to him. He'd been happy before, confident that his tax dollars were being spent to keep him safe. I'd destroyed that confidence. It was false confidence, of course, but it had kept him going. Seeing him now, miserable and broken, I wondered if it was better to be clear-eyed and hopeless or to live in a fool's paradise. That shame -- the shame I'd felt since I gave up my passwords, since they'd broken me -- returned, leaving me listless and wanting to just get away from myself. 
My character was a swabbie on the pirate ship Zombie Charger , and he'd wound down while I'd been offline. I had to IM all the other players on my ship until I found one willing to wind me up. That kept me occupied. I liked it, actually. There was something magic about a total stranger doing you a favor. And since it was the Xnet, I knew that all the strangers were friends, in some sense. 
> Where u located? 
The character who wound me up was called Lizanator, and it was female, though that didn't mean that it was a girl. Guys had some weird affinity for playing female characters. 
"How's Grampa?" Sean's father asked. 
"Oh, he's delightful," Adele said. "We introduced him to my Ethan yesterday, and they're getting along famously. Sean, introduce me to your charming father, please." 
"Dad," Sean said, through grit teeth, "This is Adele. Adele, my father, Mitch. We were thinking of getting day-passes for Grampa and Ethan and taking them to Universal. You ever been to Universal, Dad? I hear you come down here a lot." His normally fragmented attention was as focused as a laser, boring into his father through the rear-view. 
His father's stern face refused to expose any of his confusion. "I don't think I want to go to Universal," he said. 
"Oh, but it's wonderful ," Adele gushed. "You shouldn't knock it until you've tried it." 
"I don't think so," Sean's father repeated. "What's your thesis?" 
Sean plunged headlong into the breech. "It's called 'The Tri-Generational Deficit: What's My Father's Excuse?'" 
Sean's father nodded curtly. "And how's it going?" 
"Well, you have to understand, I'm just warming up to the subject with Grampa. And then I'll have to do an interview series with you, of course." 
“The worst part is, I don’t think I can do it.” Halliday lowered herself to sit on the mattress. “I don’t think I can recreate it. I’ve been trying—slowly, because I knew Arthur would be coming, but...the man who has me—has us—he knows enough to check my work, so I can’t stall too much. And most of my hesitation...it hasn’t been faked.” I could tell she was trying to speak plainly, but her shoulders hunched, and her fingers clenched against the mattress as if she was fighting to keep her composure. “I don’t think I can do it. I think...I’ve lost it. That’s the worst part of all.” 
Personally, I thought the potential bodily harm to us and the potential economic threat to the world at large from whoever did have the proof ranked as being a lot worse than Halliday not being able to recreate her notes, but I didn’t say anything. Instead, I pulled over some of the pages and flipped through them. 
Interesting. The structure of the proof was scattered but apparent—I could see it, one insight that should jump to the next, but with the steps in between left blank and unarticulated. 
“Think about what I said, okay? You’re a good kid. You ain’t gotta be like this.” 
“I like how I am just fine,” I said. 
“Take care of yourself.” 
I shrugged again. 
He turned and walked away, leaving me on a graffitied street corner that smelled vaguely of human urine. My adrenaline had faded into listless fatigue. 
Well, I supposed it was time to steal another car and head to one of my bolt holes. Cas Russell, ever prepared. 
I sighed. 
Why did people have to be so complicated? I thought of Dawna Polk’s superpowered human relations ability, and a spark of jealousy twinged. Dawna Polk would have known how to say exactly the right thing so that Arthur understood her. He’d have been eating out of her hand. 
I, on the other hand—well, I could have killed him in less than half a second, but that didn’t help at all. In fact, a niggling voice in the back of my head reminded me that attitude was what he had such issue with in the first place. 
Why am I even upset? I wondered. I was used to being on my own. I’d never concerned myself with what anyone else thought of me before. Why now? 
Coral reefs don’t wake up. They get woken up. They get a lot of neural peripherals—starting with a nervous system!—and some tutelage in using them. Some capricious upload god had done this, and that personage would have a handle on where the reef was hanging out online. 
Robbie hardly ever visited the noosphere. Its rarified heights were spooky to him, especially since so many of the humans there considered Asimovism to be hokum. They refused to even identify themselves as humans, and argued that the first and second laws didn’t apply to them. Of course, Asimovists didn’t care (at least not officially)—the point of the faith was the worshipper’s relationship to it. 
But here he was, looking for high-reliability nodes of discussion on coral reefs. The natural place to start was Wikipedia, where warring clades had been revising each others’ edits furiously, trying to establish an authoritative record on reef-mind. Paging back through the edit-history, he found a couple of handles for the pro-reef-mind users, and from there, he was able to look around for other sites where those handles appeared. Resolving the namespace collisions of other users with the same names, and forked instances of the same users, Robbie was able to winnow away at the net until he found some contact info. 
Not only those who knew Aladdin when he played in the streets like a vagabond did not know him again; those who had seen him but a little while before hardly knew him, so much were his features altered; such were the effects of the lamp, as to procure by degrees to those who possessed it, perfections agreeable to the rank the right use of it advanced them to. 
The Princess was the most beautiful brunette in the world; her eyes were large, lively, and sparkling; her looks sweet and modest; her nose was of a just proportion and without a fault; her mouth small, her lips of a vermilion red, and charmingly agreeable symmetry; in a word, all the features of her face were perfectly regular. It is not therefore surprising that Aladdin, who had never seen, and was a stranger to, so many charms, was dazzled. With all these perfections the Princess had so delicate a shape, so majestic an air, that the sight of her was sufficient to inspire respect. 
" Adorable Princess," said Aladdin to her, accosting her, and saluting her respectfully, "if I have the misfortune to have displeased you by my boldness in aspiring to the possession of so lovely a creature, I must tell you that you ought to blame your bright eyes and charms, not me. " 
The door opened—without a preliminary knock, this time—and Mrs. Enderby came in. She turned the key behind her, and, without a word, went over to the bed and pulled off the covers. Then she went into the adjoining bathroom and started the water running in the tub. This done, she sat down at the table and began to eat the breakfast on the tray. 
Lexy stood watching all this with indignation and a sort of horror. 
“All she cares about is keeping up appearances,” the girl thought. “The only thing that worries her is that some one might find out. She doesn’t know where poor Caroline is—and she can sit down and eat! I’m comparatively a stranger, and even I—” 
Lexy was an honest soul, however. The...  her, and she admitted in her heart that she, too, could eat, if she had a chance. 
Mrs. Enderby was not going to give her a chance just yet. She finished her meal and rose. 
“Now!” she said. “Just what is gone from here? We shall look.” 
So they looked, in the wardrobe, in the drawers, even in the orderly desk. Very little was gone. 
“Exactly,” I agreed. “Which means you know something.” 
He sipped his drink. “On the whole, I know very little. Far less than I would like. What I do know suggests Arthur Tresting is more correct than not.” 
“ What?” 
“I, too, have followed some unusual patterns. What interests me more,” he continued, “is who made such a concerted effort to draw you into this. That, I think, is a question worth answering.” 
I was still trying to take in the fact that he didn’t think Tresting was a raving lunatic. “I take it you didn’t call Dawna Polk ever,” I said slowly. 
“No. In fact, I have no idea who that is.” 
“Courtney Polk,” I explained. “The girl I mentioned before, the one I got out. Kid who says she ‘accidentally’ became a drug mule for the Colombians. She got caught, the Colombians threw her in a basement, and then her sister Dawna contacted me and said that you called her and told her to hire me.” 
“Yet I never made such a call. Interesting.” 
“Did you see Courtney in there?” 
“I remember thinking her rather stupid.” His voice was matter-of-fact. “It did not occur to me that she would be worth risking my other goals for.” 
This depressed and depressing frame of mind had lasted until the eventful day dawned on which Rebecca was to arrive. 
"If she makes as much work after she comes as she has before, we might as well give up hope of ever gettin' any rest," sighed Miranda as she hung the dish towels on the barberry bushes at the side door. 
"But we should have had to clean house, Rebecca or no Rebecca," urged Jane; "and I can't see why you've scrubbed and washed and baked as you have for that one child, nor why you've about bought out Watson's stock of dry goods." 
"I know Aurelia if you don't," responded Miranda. "I've seen her house, and I've seen that batch o' children, wearin' one another's clothes and never carin' whether they had 'em on right sid' out or not; I know what they've had to live and dress on, and so do you. That child will like as not come here with a passel o' things borrowed from the rest o' the family. She'll have Hannah's shoes and John's undershirts and Mark's socks most likely. I suppose she never had a thimble on her finger in her life, but she'll know the feelin' o' one before she's ben here many days. I've bought a piece of unbleached muslin and a piece o' brown gingham for her to make up; that'll keep her busy. Of course she won't pick up anything after herself; she probably never see a duster, and she'll be as hard to train into our ways as if she was a heathen." 
As she followed Mrs. Royce up the stairs, she saw Captain Grey still sitting before the fire, smoking; and it was a comforting sight. 
Lexy slept late the next morning. It was nearly nine o’clock when she opened her eyes. She lay for a few minutes, looking about her. The gray light of another rainy day filled the neat, unfamiliar little room, and outside the window she could see the branches of a little pear tree rocking in the wind. 
“I’m here in Wyngate,” she said to herself. “I was bent on coming here to find Caroline; and now, here I am, and how am I going to begin?” 
She got up, and washed in cold water, in a queer, old-fashioned china basin painted with flowers. She brushed her shining hair, and dressed, feeling more hopeful every minute. 
“One step at a time!” she thought. “The first step was to come here; and the next step—well, I’ll think of it after breakfast. Perhaps Captain Grey will have thought of something.” 
But Captain Grey had gone out. 
“Jest a few minutes ago,” Mrs. Royce informed her. “He was down real early—around seven, and he waited and waited for you. At half past eight he et, and off he went.” 
Her head bobbed up and down, resigned. “The NSA?” 
“No. None of us told the government; even Dr. Zhang kept you a secret. But the men who had Halliday before—they’re coming. They know you’re here. They—” I swallowed, wondering if or how I should reveal my own part in it. “They don’t really have Halliday again; she’s safe with the Feds. They were just saying that to get you back here.” 
“I suspected.” The slightest sigh escaped her. “But in the expectation calculation, Sonya’s life has infinite value. I had to come.” 
It was so like something I would say. 
I slid the envelope of clean documents out of my jacket. “Here. Use these to disappear again. Check in with Halliday later; let us know you’re—let us know you’re safe.” I clenched my mouth shut. I shouldn’t have said that last bit. But even after everything, I couldn’t bear the thought of her disappearing entirely again. I had to leave that window open, that sliver of hope we could find another way, a better way, for her to fix me. “Go now, Professor.” 
"Brutal." 
He wondered if he'd overstepped himself. Who cared? 
"Brutal doesn't mean untrue. It's like, it's like the money that came into this place, it became autonomous, turned into a strategy for multiplying itself. A bad strategy. The money wants to sell something to a monster, but the money doesn't know what monsters want, so it's just, what, beating its brains out on the wall. One day, the money runs out and..." 
"The money won't run out," Brautigan said. "Wrong. We'd have to spend at ten-ex what we're burning now to even approach the principal." 
"OK," Leon said. "So it's immortal. That's better?" 
Brautigan winced. "Look, it's not so crazy. There's an entire unserved market out there. No one's serving it. They're like, you know, like Communist countries. Planned economies. They need something, they just acquire the capacity. No market." 
"Hey, bub, I know just what you need! You need a house to go with this doorknob!" To his own surprise, Leon discovered that he did a passable Daffy Duck. Brautigan blinked at him. Leon realized that the man was a little drunk. "Just something I heard the other day," he said. "I told the lady from my monster that we could provide the stuff that their corporate culture precluded. I was thinking of you know, how the samurai banned firearms. We can think and do the unthinkable and undo-able." 
"You are a comforting little person, Rebecca," said Adam, rising from his chair. 
As Rebecca rose, the tears still trembling on her lashes, he looked at her suddenly as with new vision. 
"Good-by!" he said, taking her slim brown hands in his, adding, as if he saw her for the first time, "Why, little Rose-Red-Snow-White is making way for a new girl! Burning the midnight oil and doing four years' work in three is supposed to dull the eye and blanch the cheek, yet Rebecca's eyes are bright and she has a rosy color! Her long braids are looped one on the other so that they make a black letter U behind, and they are tied with grand bows at the top! She is so tall that she reaches almost to my shoulder. This will never do in the world! How will Mr. Aladdin get on without his comforting little friend! He doesn't like grown-up young ladies in long trains and wonderful fine clothes; they frighten and bore him!" 
"Oh, Mr. Aladdin!" cried Rebecca eagerly, taking his jest quite seriously; "I am not fifteen yet, and it will be three years before I'm a young lady; please don't give me up until you have to!" 
"I'm giving up my apartment at the end of the month -- next Monday. I won't be able to afford it without the Association's salary," he said. 
Her place was big. A bedroom, a home office, a living room and a dining room. It was a serious deal for DC, even outside the beltway. It could easily accommodate a second person, even if they weren't sleeping together. 
Her office -- her staff -- the press -- the bill -- her Board. 
"Well," she said, "I've got to get going. I'll shower at the office. Got to get there in time to catch the Euro press-calls. Let me put your breakfast in a bag, OK?" 
He looked whipsawed. "Uh, OK. Can I give you a ride?" 
"No, I'll need my car this afternoon. Thanks, though." She kept her voice light, didn't meet his eyes. Kept thinking: her office -- her staff -- the bill. 
"Well," he said. He turned for the door. Stopped. She tensed. He turned back to her. "Trish," he said. 
"It's OK," she said. "It's OK. We just have religious differences, is all." 
She slipped past him and into her car, and left him standing in her driveway. As she asked the car to plot a route for her back to the Hill, she dug through her purse for a pocket-knife. At the next red light, she took her lapel and slashed at it, opening a rent in her shirt that reflected a little of what her heart was feeling. It made her feel a little better to do it. 
“I tried to explain . . .” Monica took a shaky breath. “Zen, you’re a minor. The law isn’t on your side.” 
“Great. It’s not on Wilson’s side, either. Did you tell him I’ll run away? He can’t make me stay there.” 
“I brought up the possibility. He said if you ran away they’d call the police.” 
“They’d sic the cops on me? Are you serious?” 
“Of course I’m serious ! Zen, dammit. I’m trying to explain why you need to be at this meeting. It’s the only chance we have — ” 
I clicked my phone off. For a few minutes I couldn’t see any- thing through my tears, but I kept pacing, saying bad words, trying not to say them too loud because I didn’t want to attract attention, 
but I could see faces peering at me from inside the cafe. I walked to the corner and kicked a newsstand, which was loud, and the base of a lamppost, which hurt. I turned around, embarrassed and angry and limping because my toes were aching. 
Then I pulled out my phone and scrolled through my contacts. 
There weren’t many. I hesitated and...  cell phone number. It rang and rang before she answered faindy. “Hello? Oh for Pete’s sake, how does this thing . . . hello?” Her voice was louder this time. 
“All right?” he repeated. “Oh, rather! Oh, yes, thanks—absolutely all right.” 
This was too much for Lexy. 
“That’s good,” she said frigidly. “I’m going upstairs now, to write some letters.” 
Her tone aroused him. He sprang to his feet, very contrite. 
“No! Look here!” he said. “Please don’t run away! I—I want to talk to you, but it’s a bit hard. You can’t imagine what it’s like to see one of your own people, you know—after such a long time.” 
Lexy sat down again. 
“Was she as you expected her to be?” she asked. 
“I don’t quite know what I expected,” he said. “Only—” 
He paused for a long time, and Lexy waited patiently, for she felt very sorry for Captain Grey. At first sight she had imagined him to be haughty, stiff, and aloof. She knew now that he was a very sensitive man. He was terribly moved, and he wanted to tell her, but he couldn’t. 
She tried to help him. 
“Dr. Quelton came to see me this morning,” she observed. 
“Yes—he said he would. Very decent sort of chap, don’t you think?” 
"By 2007, we were 'Web 2.0.' I mean, we'd been Web 2.0 since Web 0.9, but now it seemed like the world was ready for us. All we needed was some capital to pay for the features our freeloading reference customers wanted. I met every single shitweasel -- excuse me, junior analyst -- on Sand Hill and brain dumped. They wrote great reports. We got nothing. No one was doing investments then, either: it was all acquisition driven. Stupid Sarbanes-Oxley killed IPOs and the VC went with it." 
The old woman, she called herself Chloe, was giving her a little hand-gesture that meant, "Do you need help getting rid of this jerk?" 
Nutritionist food wasn't even food -- just nutrients and flavoring. It was 80 percent of the stalls in the food-court, since the capital costs of a food printer and feedstock were practically nil, and any food hacker could differentiate himself by thinking up exotic new texture/flavor/temperature combos. 
"Twenty minutes, Mr VC." 
"Udhay," he said. "Udhay Gonzales." He passed her a card, laser-etched on a jumbo lima bean. She pocketed it. 
She had never felt so clearheaded as she did at this work, and the boy on her thrashed and got her a couple good knocks on the head, and his blood soaked her bare chest and her face and her short hair. But she worked the knife some more, going for the throat and then the face. She let him go and he rolled away and she pounced on him. She worked with the knife. Soon he stopped moving. 
Her shirt was in rags, but the bra-clasp still worked, once she bent it back. The pea-light was easy to find—it glowed like a beacon. She picked it up and made her way to the wizard’s. 
“I’m deaf,” she said to Ana. Ana looked the same, at first. And then Valentine saw that she was holding a cane and leaning on it heavily. 
She knew that she was half-naked and covered with gore, but she also knew that Ana would not be fazed by this. She squeezed past her and into the brave, swooping, just-printed sitting room. She fixed...  glug of rum into it while Ana stared at her in some wordless emotion. 
“I’m deaf,” she repeated,...  Ana. “I could use a shirt, too. And the wizard, of course.” 
> Um, hello? You're worried about breaking the law? 
> Fair point. 
> LOL! 
I felt a little premonition of nervousness though. I mean, I was taking this perfectly awesome girl out on a date that weekend -- well, she was taking me, technically -- to an illegal rave being held in the middle of a busy neighborhood. 
It was bound to be interesting at least. 
Interesting. 
People started to drift into Dolores Park through the long Saturday afternoon, showing up among the ultimate frisbee players and the dog-walkers. Some of them played frisbee or walked dogs. It wasn't really clear how the concert was going to work, but there were a lot of cops and undercovers hanging around. You could tell the undercovers because, like Zit and Booger, they had Castro haircuts and Nebraska physiques: tubby guys with short hair and untidy mustaches. They drifted around, looking awkward and uncomfortable in their giant shorts and loose-fitting shirts that no-doubt hung down to cover the chandelier of gear hung around their midriffs. 
"Emma, you'll have to forgive me. I'm not thinking very clearly. I know I'm not acting with much coherence. 
I'm— I mean to say, I think I came because I needed to see that you were all right. " 
"Why wouldn't I be fine?" By syntax, it's a question, but she speaks it without curiosity. "Because of Micah," 
Ray says simply. "The boy from the Trust." 
The name strikes her like a punch. She does not so much wilt as unhinge, her joints and muscles collapsing. 
She drops her chin until it rests against her breast, and all Ray can see is the top of her head. 
But just for a moment. 
With a jerk, she stiffens, lifts her head and sets her mouth in a firm, thin line. "News of a Whiston tragedy has always travels quickly. There must be morbid delight in our suffering." 
"No, not at all." She doesn't understand, he realizes. She doesn't see any way he could know about Micah so soon, except as a recipient of a firestorm of gossip. Ugh. "It's not like you think. I was dragged into the investigation by Security Chief Becker this afternoon-to coordinate the drones, you understand. We use them to gather physical evidence to keep from contaminating the crime scene. Sometimes, it puts me in a position to hear privileged information." He gives her a grim, understanding expression to hide the lie he has just told. 
"I can't do it," I said. She narrowed her eyes at me and set down her drink. I held up both hands like I was trying to defend against a blow, then explained as fast as I could. 
"We'll just shut down his power," she said. "All at once." 
"So, first, I have no idea what timescale he would experience that on. It may be that the final second of life as the capacitors in his power supplies drained would last for a subjective eternity, you know, hundreds and hundreds of years. That's a horrible thought. It's quite possibly my worst nightmare. I am not your man for that job." 
She started to interject. I waved my hands again. 
"Wait, that was first. Here's second: I don't think we can pull the plug on him. He's got root on his power-supply, it's part of how he's able to run so efficiently." I grimaced. "Efficiently compared to how he would run if he didn't have the authority to run all the mains power from the Institute's power-station right to his lab." 
She looked thoughtful. I had an idea of what was coming next. 
Microscopic particles of radioactive isotope were apparently an offense to this rat's binary worldview. 
Ray was not normally a fan of individual initiative. Rogue rats like this one were part of the reason.  He curses a half dozen times as he returns the tracker to its designated pocket. A dozen more expletives escape in the process of contorting his body to access other, more remote pockets on his coveralls, followed by a full cannonade of scorched-earth profanities while he maneuvers the newly retrieved magnetic cups over his knees and hands, and triple-checks that they're strapped tightly in place. 
He tests the distance from his tube to the far wall of the cooling shaft. By hanging most of his upper body over the edge, he can almost brush the wall with his fingertips. He also manages to almost lose his balance and drag his entire body into freefall down the length of the cooling tube, and it occurs to him that he doesn't like so much having valued parts of his organic being dangling over the roiling exhaust of a reactor's core. A new approach is called for. 
“Is it against the law to lie to a federal official?” 
She put her face in her hands for a moment. Then she folded her arms and heaved a sigh. “Yes. There’s a law against making false statements to federal officials.” 
“No fair. Cops can lie, right?” 
“Unless under oath. So?” 
“I was just curious about what happens if a cop lies to a federal official.” 
“Their heads explode.” 
“That would be awesome.” 
“No, it wouldn’t, but my head will explode if you keep wasting my time. Do you have any more questions pertaining to some- thing other than prurient interest?” 
“Prur . . . how do you spell that?” 
“Look it up in the dictionary.” She had a killer glare. I wouldn’t want to be facing her in a courtroom. “Zenobia, you need to take care. Your brother has enough problems.” 
“I know.” 
“And you’re aware of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act and its penalties?” I started to speak, but she held up a warning finger. 
“Constrain your answer to a yes or no.” 
“Yes.” 
She studied me for a moment. “Hypothetically, if you were going to help your brother, what would you do? Aside from drag- ging a lawyer out of retirement and getting her to do a lot of work for free.” 
<ferret> I've got a visualization that shows these two have the most points in common when mapped over time and space. 
He posted a link to it, a trippy, colorful, three-dimensional rotating tangle of lines and dots. When you clicked on it, the colored lines erased themselves, one by one, until only two were left, circling and intersecting, two timelines for two people, one a crook and one a cop, turned into wobbly lines that crossed over one another again and again. 
<Kadabra> That's awesome. What did you use? 
<ferret> This thing I wrote for studying migration patterns in bird species. Turns out it works great for studying rats, too. 
<Falstaff> Okay, what will we do with this info? 
<callmecheese> Take it to the press? 
<Falstaff> *What* press? The one that told us there...  talking about the one that sat on the original NSA sur- veillance story waiting for permission from the feds? 
<inky> Just get it out there. Let the people know so they can crowdsource a response. 
<DoDec> Stuff gets twisted, though. Remember how Redditors found the wrong Boston marathon bomber? And then there' s all the state- sponsored misinformation. Could get muddy. 
“How many are there of you?” he asked, not wanting to know the answer. 
“I don’t know exactly,” she said. 
“3,422,” Benny said. “This morning it was 3,423.” 
Arturo rocked back in his boots and bit his lip hard enough to draw blood. 
“Um,” Natalie said. “More of me to love?” 
He barked a laugh, and Natalie smiled and reached for him. He leaned back toward the jet, then stopped, defeated. Where would he go? He let her warm hand take his, and a moment later, Ada took her other hand and they stood facing each other, breathing in their smells. 
“I’ve gotten you your own place,” she said as she led them across the tarmac. “It’s close to where I live, but far enough for you to have privacy.” 
“What will I do here?” he said. “Do they have coppers in Eurasia?” 
“Not really,” Natalie said. 
“It’s all robots?” 
“No, there’s not any crime.” 
“Oh.” 
Arturo put one foot in front of the other, not sure if the ground was actually spongy or if that was jetlag. Around him, the alien smells of Beijing and the robots that were a million times smarter than he. To his right, his wife, one of 3,422 versions of her. 
He was chasing a bit of fashion work to supplement his on-again, off-again magazine assignments. 
"Love," I said in my reverie, "can you come over tonight? I promise to make it worth your while. It involves a bubble bath, champagne, roses everywhere, sensuous ragas on the CD. And maybe some crispy oysters or something, sent in later on, just to keep us going." 
Then I'd listen to the tone of his voice, knowing he'd say yes but putting more stock in how he said it. Still, he always gave his lines a good read. 
"Then why don't we aim for about nine?" I'd go on, bliss­ful. "That ought to give me a chance to get organized. And don't bring anything except your luscious self." The fantasy was coming together in my mind. Thinking back, I realized how much I missed him, all over again. . . . 
That was when the phone on the armrest beside me rang for real. For a moment I was so startled I almost hit the brakes. Then I clicked it on, my mind still buzzing about Steve, and also, in spite of my resolve, about the curious runaround I'd just gotten from Alex Goddard. 
"Just make sure you get to the dispensary and pick up you own script before tomorrow," Becker points out. 
"You're absolutely no good to me if you're in the head chucking up your intestines for the last two days of the flight." 
This is apparently not a well-guarded secret, this magical anti-nausea bullet. Becker keeps a whole bottle in his pocket, which means that there have probably been announcements and reminders and memos and other sorts of shipwide reminders available to all and sundry who happen to read such things. Which is also exactly why Ray doesn't know anything about it. Thus, not so much a wuss as an idiot, which he thinks is probably a step up on the ladder of human consciousness. 
He would like to wait for the pills to kick in, to settle the fierce pitch and yaw of his stomach, but Becker in impatient. The Security Chief would really like to have something resembling a suspect for Micah's murder before they reach New Holyoke. 
"Tell me how much you admire my investigative acumen and stunning intellect," Ray says. 
"You got the directions?" 
"She gave me directions." 
"So you know where we're going?" 
"I don't have a single, solitary clue. Your mother gives terrible directions, darling. Pull off at the next exit and we'll buy a map." 
"We are going to be: So. Late." 
"But now they know we're late. We have an excuse. You: stop Fretting." 
Once they were on the secondary roads, the creepiness of the highway full of stopped cars and crane-necked drivers gave way to a wind-washed soughing silence of waves and beach and palms. Trish rolled down the window and let the breeze kiss the sweat off her lip, watching the surfers wiping out in the curl as the car sped toward the boneyard. 
"Are you sure this is the kind of thing you're supposed to bring a date to?" 
"Yes," he said. "Don't Fret. That's my job." 
"And you don't think it's even a little weird to take a girl to a cemetery on a date?" 
"We're not burying anyone," he said. "It's just an unveiling." 
"I still don't get that," she said. "I keep picturing your mom cutting a ribbon with a giant pair of gold scissors." 
Dammit. I wasn’t sure how to begin to unsnarl this whole mess—like I’d told Tresting, I wasn’t an investigator. I didn’t usually need to figure anything out beyond how to get through a locked door. 
I definitely needed to get in touch with Rio. And sooner rather than later. 
I left most of my small arsenal under the mattress, disdaining the shoddy guns for the Ruger I had stashed in the wall, and set out to find an electronics store. 
It was coming on noon when I finally got back to my bolt hole with a couple of new prepaid phones. I stuck one in my wall stash as a backup and dialed the other from memory. Rio picked up on the first ring. 
“It’s Cas,” I said. 
“Cas,” said Rio, and I could have sworn he sounded relieved. Odd. “I’ve been trying to reach you.” 
“I burned my phone,” I said. “What’s up?” 
“Have you seen a paper this morning?” 
“A newspaper?” 
“ Yes, Cas, a newspaper.” 
“No need to get sarcastic,” I said. “I’m part of the Internet generation. No, I haven’t. Why?” 
“You’re in it.” 
"I know this all, Marcus. Believe me, I'm not fan of what's been happening to this country. But your father is --" She broke off. "When you didn't come home after the attacks, he thought --" 
She got up and made herself a cup of tea, something she did whenever she was uncomfortable or disconcerted. 
"Marcus," she said. "Marcus, we thought you were dead. Do you understand that? We were mourning you for days. We were imagining you blown to bits, at the bottom of the ocean. Dead because some bastard decided to kill hundreds of strangers to make some point." 
That sank in slowly. I mean, I understood that they'd been worried. Lots of people died in the bombings -- four thousand was the present estimate -- and practically everyone knew someone who didn't come home that day. There were two people from my school who had disappeared. 
"Your father was ready to kill someone. Anyone. He was out of his mind. You've never seen him like this. I've never seen him like it either. He was out of his mind. He'd just sit at this table and curse and curse and curse. Vile words, words I'd never heard him say. One day -- the third day -- someone called and he was sure it was you, but it was a wrong number and he threw the phone so hard it disintegrated into thousands of pieces." I'd wondered about the new kitchen phone. 
"What do you want, Charles?" 
"Well, I've been hanging out on that traitorous Xnet ever since I spotted you giving out DVDs at school. When I heard about your VampMob, I thought I'd go along and hang around the edges, just to see if you showed up and what you did. You know what I saw?" 
I said nothing. He had his phone in his hand, pointed at us. Recording. Maybe ready to dial 911. Beside me, Masha had gone still as a board. 
"I saw you leading the damned thing. And I recorded it, Marcus. So now I'm going to call the cops and we're going to wait right here for them. And then you're going to go to pound-you-in-the-ass prison, for a long, long time." 
Masha stepped forward. 
"Stop right there, chickie," he said. "I saw you get him away. I saw it all --" 
She took another step forward and snatched the phone out of his hand, reaching behind her with her other hand and bringing it out holding a wallet open. 
"DHS, dick-head," she said. "I'm DHS. I've been running this twerp back to his masters to see where he went. I was doing that. Now you've blown it. We have a name for that. We call it 'Obstruction of National Security.' You're about to hear that phrase a lot more often." 
My pulse was still in overdrive, but I hugged her, then signaled the crew that shooting was over for the day. 
"Okay, everybody. Time to wrap." 
The gang immediately began striking the lights and rolling up electrical cords. They would take the equipment back downtown and deliver the film to the lab, while I would head home. It had been a long day and lots of thinking was needed. Besides, it was starting to rain, a dismal spatter against Paula's grimy windows, as the gray spring afternoon had begun darkening toward sullen evening. 
"Listen, I enjoyed this." Paula had taken Rachel in her arms and was stroking her blond hair. "I really love talking about her. She's changed my life." 
I gave her another hug. "You're great. And you're going to be wonderful in the film." If I used her. The whole thing was getting unnerving. "You have no idea how much you've helped." Then I said good-bye to Rachel, who responded with a perfect "Bye, bye" through her haze of spaghetti sauce. 
Okay, get the superintendent. Crank up the freight eleva­tor. Get out of here. 
"Why would you want to do that?" 
"Let me guess, none of my neighbors wanted to help you." 
"You're only the second guy I've asked, but yeah, pretty much." 
"Out here in the real world, we don't really talk about each other to strangers. Too much like being a snitch. Lucky for you, my sister's in the Order, out in Oregon, so I know you're not all a bunch of snoops and stoolies. Who're you looking for?" 
Lawrence felt a rush of gratitude for this man. "Anja Krotoski, number 11-J?" 
"Oh," the man said. "Well, yeah, I can see why you'd have a hard time with the neighbors when it comes to old Anja. She was well-liked around here, before she went." 
"Where'd she go? When?" 
"What's your name, friend?" 
"Lawrence." 
"Lawrence, Anja went . Middle of the night kind of thing. No one heard a thing. The CCTVs stopped working that night. Nothing on the drive the next day. No footage at all." 
"Like she skipped out?" 
"They stopped delivering flyers to her door. There's only one power stronger than direct marketing." 
But the smell was the same -- oil and damp and bleach and the indefinable, human smell of a place where millions had passed for decades, where millions would pass for decades to come. He found himself standing before a subway map, looking at it, comparing it to the one in his memory to find the changes, the new stations that must have sprung up during his hiatus from reality. 
But there weren't new stations. In fact, it seemed to him that there were a lot fewer stations -- hadn't there been one at Bleeker Street and another at Cathedral Parkway? Yes, there had been -- but look now, they were gone, and... And there were stickers, white stickers over the places where the stations had been. He reached up and touched the one over Bleeker Street. 
"I still can't get used to it, either," said a voice at his side. "I used to change for the F Train there every day when I was a kid." It was a woman, about the same age as Gerta, but more beaten down by the years, deeper creases in her face, a stoop in her stance. But her face was kind, her eyes soft. 
“She didn’t mention that,” I said. 
“Because she didn’t see it. It went to spam. That’s probably why she didn’t get the note until the next day.” 
Hmm. How had the perpetrators known their email had gotten spammed? Maybe they’d left spyware on her computer. It didn’t seem likely they would’ve broken back into her office unless they’d known they needed to. 
“Also, you know the email she sent to her friend at the NSA?” Checker continued. “The reason she approached him wasn’t that she was robbed. She started talking to him about the proof a few weeks ago, way before the burglary. I’m guessing she thought to start checking in with him about NSA possibilities after she finished the proof, but maybe she wanted to sit on the result for a little while before turning it over. Point is, that’s a pretty big coincidence.” 
“What is?” I said. 
“The timing,” said Arthur. “You think the NSA stole her proof?” 
“I think the NSA is probably listening in on this conversation, but I don’t think they’d try to run you off the road with military hardware,” said Checker. “No, I think someone else read that email and drew the right conclusion. She wasn’t talking about this proof to anyone else, right? So how did the thieves know about it? As sexy as higher math can be, somehow I doubt they were randomly spying on a theoretical mathematician just in case she discovered something with applications.” 
But then the woman who had borne Tz'ac Tzotz said something in Kekchi Maya, pointing back at me and her child, and lunged at him. They collided together in the rain and next she slid down, first seizing his leg, then losing her grip and slipping onto the stones, her long black hair askew in the hovering smoke. 
She's trying to save me, I realized. Why—? 
Then I saw Sarah pull away from the women supporting her and slowly move across the platform. 
"Morgy . . ." 
She was walking in the direction of Alex Goddard, but then she stumbled over the fallen woman's leg and her hand went down as she sprawled across her. She must have touched something, because she recoiled backward, and only then did I notice the flare of a torch glinting off the obsidian knife now protruding from the woman's chest. 
Sarah rose up, her eyes full of anger, and awkwardly flung her arms, searching. I could feel the passion that had been pent up all those months she lay in the coma, feeding her madness. She managed to catch hold of Alex Goddard's arm, and they began an awkward minuet, neither realizing how close they were to the stone platform's edge. I stood mes­merized a moment, then dashed toward them, but only in time to watch them vanish into the rain and haze. It was as though there had been some sleight of hand. One second they were there and the next they weren't. At first I thought my eyes were playing tricks on me, but then I realized it was real. They were gone. 
I put on my best smooth, cool professional face. "I see," I said. 
"Now, you've still got a job, of course. Plenty of places for a utility infielder like yourself here. Tell the truth, most labs are begging for decent admins to keep things running. But BIGMAC just isn't a good use of the institute's resources. The project hasn't produced a paper or even a press-mention in over a year and there's no reason to believe that it will. AI is just --" 
Boring , I thought, but I didn't say it. The B-word was banned in the BIGMAC center. "What about the researchers?" 
She shrugged. "What researchers? Palinciuc has been lab-head pro tem for 16 months and she's going on maternity leave next week and there's no one in line to be the pro-tem pro-tem . Her grad students would love to work on something meaningful, like Binenbaum's lab." That was the new affective computing lab, in which they were building computers that simulated emotions so that their owners would feel better about their mistakes. BIGMAC had emotions, but they weren't the kind of emotions that made his mistakes easier to handle. The key here was simulated emotions. Affective computing had taken a huge upswing ever since they'd thrown out the fMRIs and stopped pretending they could peer into the human mind in realtime and draw meaningful conclusions from it. 
"I know." It's creepy getting a phone call from a computer. Believe me, I know . There was stuff that BIGMAC needed his meat-servants for, after all. 
The kids were a little freaked out to hear from me. The older one taught Musicology at Urbana-Champaign. He'd grown up hearing his dad wax rhapsodic about the amazing computer he'd invented, so his relevance filters were heavily tilted to BIGMAC news. He'd heard the whole story, and was surprised to discover that he was putative half-owner of BIGMAC's sourcecode. He was only too glad to promise to turn it over to the trust when it was created. He said he thought he could talk his younger brother, a post-doc in Urban Planning at the University of Michigan, into it. "Rusty never really got what Dad saw in that thing, but he'll be happy to offload any thinking about it onto me, and I'll dump it onto you. He's busy, Rusty." 
I thanked him and addressed BIGMAC, who had been listening in on the line. "I think we've got a plan." 
It was a good plan. Good plans are easy. Executing good plans is hard. 
Joey Riel's hands balled up into fists and the investors shifted nervously. Lee-Daniel got to his feet and interposed himself between them. 
"Ya-tay-hay, madam," he said. "Thank you for your welcome. Can you tell me where I should park the bus? We've got a lot of work to do today, while there's still light to work by." 
"You need to understand, it's not personal ," MacDiarmid said, for the third time. 
Lee-Daniel set down his ridiculous second-hand crantini carton and climbed slowly to his feet. "*You* need to understand, Mac, that I don't care if it's personal. Whether you're forcing me out of this company, this company that I built with my own two hands, this company that is hitting every goddamned milestone, this company that is returning good dividends on your preferred stock, whether you're forcing me out because you're not my friend anymore --" he said this in a pinched, Mickey Mouse voice "-- or whether you're forcing me out because you think that it's 'for the best' doesn't matter to me at all. I don't care if you're doing it because you're protecting your investment or because your astrologer told you to, I still won't stand for it." 
The doctor’s wife helped Lexy with her hat and coat. She was very gentle, very kind, and genuinely concerned for her unhappy little guest. Lexy remembered afterward that Mrs. Quelton kissed her; but at the moment nothing mattered except to get away, to get out of that house into the fresh air. 
Without one backward glance she set off at a furious pace, splashing through the puddles, almost running. Captain Grey kept easily by her side with his long, lithe stride. Now and then he spoke to her, but she could not trust herself to answer just yet. The storm within her was subsiding. From time to time a sob broke from her, but the tears had stopped. 
And now she was beginning to think. 
Twilight had come early on this rainy day, and it was almost dark before they reached the end of the lane. Lexy slackened her pace. Then, as they came to the corner of the highway, she stopped and laid her hand on her companion’s sleeve. 
“Captain Grey!” she said. 
He looked down at her, but it was too dark to see what expression there was on her pale face. He was vastly relieved, however, by the steadiness of her voice. 
Fucking Marines, Ray thinks. And he tells them. All of it.   The event that at some point in the night came to be called Operation Boogey Man (alternately, Operation Booger Man, Booty Man, Boogie Down Man) does not begin as smoothly as Ray would have liked. In the morning, with the three of them still scrubbing sleep out of their eyes and the...  it becomes painfully apparent that Kilgore and Rodriguez had never qualified in Covert Urban Civilian Fashion. They go through much of their wardrobes of loud, baggy shirts and khaki cargo pants with too many utilitarian pockets and manage in none of the iterations to look like anything except Marines gearing up for espionage activities. Ray would have accepted a Marines-on-shore-leave theme since that fit with their backup cover story, but they couldn't even pull that off without looking like they had stuffed blocks of explosive putty in their pockets and kept pistols strapped under their arms. (This was partially due to the fact that Kilgore insisted on actually keeping a pistol there.) 
The world was starting to stabilize around me. I braced a hand against the wall to stagger upright. Arthur clambered up as well and helped me. He wasn’t moving altogether steadily himself, but we leaned on each other. 
I shook myself, trying to remember why I felt so drained. 
Dawna had done something to me. Right. 
What had she...? 
The memory of her attack collapsed in on itself further and further until it became a multicolored tangle, fading away and melting together as if I were recalling it from a distance of decades. 
Arthur and I helped each other down the stairs and back out the broken door. My vandalism seemed an age ago. The cool night air kissed us; it anchored me, braced me in the world. The base was silent now, the activity at the far end gone. I wondered if that was Pithica’s work. 
“Where to?” asked Arthur. 
“I’ve got a bolt hole in the Valley,” I said. 
“The Valley,” Arthur mused. “Long haul from here, shape we’re in.” 
“Sirens,” said Arthur. 
I forced myself back to the present. He was right; the high wail rose and fell in the near distance, coming closer. I did a quick Doppler calculation—less than a kilometer away. 
"No," sighed Rebecca ruefully, flinging herself down by the table and resting her head on her hand. "Not unless we can contrive to pay off that detestable mortgage. The day grows farther off instead of nearer now that we haven't paid the interest this year." 
"Will you pay a little faster?" said the mortgage to the farm; 
"I confess I'm very tired of this place." 
"The weariness is mutual," Rebecca Randall cried; 
"I would I'd never gazed upon your face!" 
"A note has a 'face,'" observed Emma Jane, who was gifted in arithmetic. "I didn't know that a mortgage had." 
"Our mortgage has," said Rebecca revengefully. "I should know him if I met him in the dark. Wait and I'll draw him for you. It will be good for you to know how he looks, and then when you have a husband and seven children, you won't allow him to come anywhere within a mile of your farm." 
The sketch when completed was of a sort to be shunned by a timid person on the verge of slumber. There was a tiny house on the right, and a weeping family gathered in front of it. The mortgage was depicted as a cross between a fiend and an ogre, and held an axe uplifted in his red right hand. A figure with streaming black locks was staying the blow, and this, Rebecca explained complacently, was intended as a likeness of herself, though she was rather vague as to the method she should use in attaining her end. 
"Children of Light," said an unctuous voice. "This is Ramala." 
I hesitated a moment before giving my name. They already knew who I was; Ramala or somebody had called Paula Marks and asked about me. Me. What would she do when she heard it was yours truly in the flesh? 
I tried to take a deep breath, working around the feeling my lungs were on fire, and identified myself. 
Ramala received the information as though she'd never heard of me. Maybe she hadn't. Then I asked for an appoint­ment with Alex Goddard. As soon as it was convenient. 
"He leaves his Saturdays open," she said, more of the smiley voice, "so I could make a special appointment for you tomorrow. Would ten A.M. be all right?" 
Her accent was the kind of Delhi colonial-ruling-class you associate with expensive silk saris and ruby bracelets, yet at the same time her voice had an overlay of that melodious, touchy-feely unctuousness you hear on relaxation tapes. I half expected her to next say, inhale deeply and feel the love flowing through the universe. In any case, she couldn't have sounded more open and forthcoming. 
"Happy birthday, love," she said, uncurling herself and levering herself up on tiptoe -- the gyros whining -- to give him a kiss on the cheek. "Arthur, this is Marcel." 
They shook hands. 
"I'll tell you how," Arthur said again, clearly enjoying the chance to unfurl one of his old, well-oiled stories. "It was all about connecting kids up with their local neighborhoods and the tastes there. Kids know what their friends want to read. We had them curate their own anthologies of the best, most suitable material from The Story So Far, put all that local knowledge to work. The right book for the right person in the right place. You've got to give them a religious experience before you can lure them into coming to church regular." 
"Arthur thinks reading is a religion," Chloe said, noting Marcel's puzzled expression. 
"Obsolete, you mean?" Marcel said. 
Arthur opened his mouth, shut it, prepared to have an argument. Chloe short-circuited it by reaching under the counter and producing a carefully wrapped package. 
“So you’re thinking we should consider, like, violent action?” 
“Following the rules isn’t working. Have you met the guy who’s running that Solidarity Committee? He’s such a tool. I offered to help strategize, but he was like ‘no thanks, I got this.’ Like it’s his little entrepreneurial project. He’s just scared he’d get arrested and it would affect his career opportunities. Me, I’m will- ing to take risks.” 
They debated a while longer, with Nikko drawing Simon out, 
then retreating, inviting Simon to come on stronger. The record- ing showed that Simon was gullible, macho, sore that he’d been shouldered aside by a more popular activist with a well-developed social media presence. He was eager to establish a reputation as a daring radical. 
“Think that’ll do it?” Nikko asked. 
“Perfect FBI-bait. You’re good at this.” 
“It’s psychology,” he said, tapping his forehead. “He’s feeling left out. He wants to prove he’s braver than they are. Give him an opening, he’ll step right up.” 
A hairball of an idea came to me. “You don’t think ... I mean, 
Among the teachers at Wareham was one who influenced Rebecca profoundly, Miss Emily Maxwell, with whom she studied English literature and composition. Miss Maxwell, as the niece of one of Maine's ex-governors and the daughter of one of Bowdoin's professors, was the most remarkable personality in Wareham, and that her few years of teaching happened to be in Rebecca's time was the happiest of all chances. There was no indecision or delay in the establishment of their relations; Rebecca's heart flew like an arrow to its mark, and her mind, meeting its superior, settled at once into an abiding attitude of respectful homage. 
It was rumored that Miss Maxwell "wrote," which word, when uttered in a certain tone, was understood to mean not that a person had command of penmanship, Spencerian or otherwise, but that she had appeared in print. 
"You'll like her; she writes," whispered Huldah to Rebecca the first morning at prayers, where the faculty sat in an imposing row on the front seats. "She writes; and I call her stuck up." 
They brought me back to my cell and fed me, a half a pepperoni pie from Goat Hill Pizza, which I knew well, up on Potrero Hill. The carton with its familiar graphic and 415 phone number was a reminder that only a day before, I'd been a free man in a free country and that now I was a prisoner. I worried constantly about Darryl and fretted about my other friends. Maybe they'd been more cooperative and had been released. Maybe they'd told my parents and they were frantically calling around. 
Maybe not. 
The cell was fantastically spare, empty as my soul. I fantasized that the wall opposite my bunk was a screen, that I could be hacking right now, opening the cell-door. I fantasized about my workbench and the projects there -- the old cans I was turning into a ghetto surround-sound rig, the aerial photography kite-cam I was building, my homebrew laptop. 
I wanted to get out of there. I wanted to go home and have my friends and my school and my parents and my life back. I wanted to be able to go where I wanted to go, not be stuck pacing and pacing and pacing. 
They reached the perimeter and began to pace it off. Over the audio on the videoconferencing tablets, he heard the investors' labored breathing, the slipping of their impractical Oxfords on the slippery humus that carpeted the forest. 
It was a nice early-fall day, with bloody streaks of sunset on the horizon and the crisp smell of damp and wind and sap dripping from the maples. Lee-Daniel loved an autumn walk in the woods, hell, who didn't, and so he was pretty relaxed by the time he got half-way around the Rez, an hour later, in the growing gloom. 
It was then that bright beams of light stabbed at them from all sides. Behind him, he heard Cobra curse and then he was shoved aside and down as Cobra and the girl took up back-to-back positions with their weapons -- a gas-fogger for her, a hunting rifle for him -- at ready. 
"Surete," Cobra hissed. Surete du Quebec -- the Provincial cops. 
He'd done the research, knew that the SQ and the Warriors hated each other. The Mohawk Warriors Society had been fired in a kiln bricked with SQ beatings, shoot-outs and gassings. But the Akwesahsne Rez had been at peace for almost three years! Why the hell couldn't this have happened tomorrow , when they were on the road? 
I pulled at a tangle of hair, feeling my mind in chaos, and tried to reason out the situation. Why? Why would he steal a positive that couldn't be used for anything? 
Finally the real truth of what had happened hit me like a fist in the chest. My Home Sweet Home had been violated. 
Seething, I went into the living room and reached for the phone, the only thing not on the floor. 
My first instinct was to call David, but then I decided he'd just go into a tizzy of hysteria and be no support at all. So instead I called Lou, praying I wouldn't wake Sarah. In an unsteady voice, I tried to tell him what had happened. 
He seemed puzzled to hear from me again so soon, but then he quickly turned FBI, concerned for my safety. 
"Guy sounds like a professional," he declared. "Probably got in with an electric picker, like the Edge. Any asshole can buy one for a hundred and thirty bucks. It'll rake cylinders at a hundred times a second. Pro like that, you can be sure there'll be no prints." 
"But why would . . . ?" My voice was still a croak. "I mean, my God, all for a lousy reel of film?" 
At that moment, Alex Goddard appeared in the doorway. He clicked on the light, looking puzzled. 
"Couldn't find the switch?" Then he glanced around. "Tara, did you get lost? I thought you were doing your medi­tation. It's Sunday. Afterwards, though, you can weed the north herb boxes if you want." 
She nodded silently, then grabbed the baggie and glided out, her brown eyes filled with both reverence and what seemed like fear. 
"Who was that?" I asked, staring after her, feeling unset­tled by the whole experience. "She seemed pretty intense." 
"Tara's been pretty intense for some time, perhaps for much of her life," he declared with a note of sadness as he closed the door behind her. "I've not been able to do anything for her, but I've let her stay on here since she has nowhere else to go. She loves the gardens, so I've let her work out there. It seems to improve her self-esteem, a kind of benign therapy, her own natural path toward centering." 
Well, I thought, she certainly could use some "centering." 
“Perhaps it does,” replied Lexy. 
“Well,” said the young man, “when a woman’s bored by a jewel like that, she’s in a bad way. I wish you could see it!” 
“I wish I could,” said Lexy, and added to herself: “But I don’t think I ever shall. Probably her husband’s got it.” 
They had now reached the Tower. The parlor maid opened the door for them, and at once conducted Lexy upstairs to her room. 
It was a big room, with four windows, and very comfortably furnished; but even a fire burning in the grate and two or three shaded electric lamps could not give it a homelike air. There was a musty smell about it, and there was an amazing amount of dust. It was neat, but it wasn’t clean. Dust rose from the carpet when she walked, and from the chair cushions when she sat down. She saw fluff under the bed and under the bureau. 
“Not much of a housekeeper, poor soul!” thought Lexy. “It’s a pity. One could do almost anything with a house like this, and all this beautiful old furniture!” 
But this, after all, was a minor matter. She took off her hat, washed her hands and face, brushed her hair, and left the room, closing the door quietly behind her. 
It was the most wearisome and depressing evening she had ever spent. Her lively and restless spirit had often enough found it dull at the Enderbys’, and at other times and places; but this was different, and infinitely worse. 
To begin with, a sense of guilt lay like lead upon her heart. She hoped and believed that what she had done was right, but she was afraid, terribly afraid, of what might result. She could not keep her eyes off Mrs. Quelton’s face. She watched the doctor’s wife with a dread and anxiety which she felt was ill concealed; and she had a chill suspicion that the doctor was watching her, in turn. 
“Of course, he’s bound to find out some time,” she said to herself. “I wasn’t such a fool as to expect more than a day or two, at the very most; but I did hope there’d be time just to see—” 
Again she glanced at Mrs. Quelton. Was it imagination, or was there already a faint and indefinable change? 
“No, that’s nonsense,” she thought. “There couldn’t be, so soon—although I don’t know how often he gives her that priceless tonic.” 
"They may not have caught any terrorists yet, but they're sure getting a lot of scumbags off the streets. Look at the drug dealers -- it says they've put dozens of them away since this all started. Remember when those druggies robbed you? If we don't bust their dealers, it'll only get worse." I'd been mugged the year before. They'd been pretty civilized about it. One skinny guy who smelled bad told me he had a gun, the other one asked me for my wallet. They even let me keep my ID, though they got my debit card and Fast Pass. It had still scared me witless and left me paranoid and checking my shoulder for weeks. 
"But most of the people they hold up aren't doing anything wrong, Dad," I said. This was getting to me. My own father! "It's crazy. For every guilty person they catch, they have to punish thousands of innocent people. That's just not good." 
"Innocent? Guys cheating on their wives? Drug dealers? You're defending them, but what about all the people who died? If you don't have anything to hide --" 
I carefully got out and walked down the empty street a way, then followed the stucco wall/fence—the building cov­ered an entire city block—until I came across an alley en­trance, with another large iron gate, padlocked shut. 
I peered up the driveway, shrouded in overhanging trees, but there was nothing in the parking lot except a couple of Army Jeeps. And a black Land Rover. 
Well, Barry Morton really wanted me to see this. But why? Is there a connection to the place in the Peten? And what are the Army vehicles all about? 
I sighed and made my way back to the street. When I reached the Jeep, Alan was gone, but then I realized he was over talking to the young guard, offering him a cigarette. A few moments later he waved good-bye and casually ambled back. 
"Okay." He settled in and hit the ignition. "Here's the official deal. This place is some kind of hospice for unwed mothers. They also take in orphans, or so he thinks. Accord­ing to him, no American women have ever had anything to do with the place, which is probably why I'd never heard of it." He glanced at me as we sped off. "You happy now? Debriefing young Army dudes is a specialty of mine, so I think that's probably the straight scoop." 
He twitched. “I will. A little more time—” 
“We know it’s the right office, though?” 
“Statistically, the suspicious activity—” 
“Yes,” said Tresting, over Checker’s annoyed squawk at being interrupted again. “That’s his way of saying yes.” 
“Then let’s go.” 
“I feel appreciated,” grumped Checker. 
“Thank you,” I said to him with sweet sarcasm, and turned back to Tresting. “Now let’s go.” 
Checker gave us a hearty middle finger and cut the connection. 
“He’ll be standing by for when we get in,” Tresting assured me. “In case we can get him remote access. Shall we?” 
“Can you get him to cut the security cameras for us first?” I wasn’t likely to forget how easily Checker had been able to find Dawna and me on the Santa Monica footage. 
“Asked already. For some reason the building security system is down today. Been down for the last few hours.” 
I studied his grim face. “You think they have something going down?” 
“Only one way to find out. Mind giving me my gun back?” 
Tresting drove; I sat in the passenger seat and tried to keep from fidgeting. I’d never gone into a place with someone else. It felt odd, itchy, like a variable I had no control over. I tamped down both that and my headache, which had reappeared with a dull throb as we drove—this wasn’t the time to be distracted. Fortunately, I’d had enough practice with hangovers to ignore headaches pretty easily. 
“But it’s not Caroline!” cried Miss Craigie. 
“Hush!” said Mrs. Enderby. “I shall explain to you. Please allow the chauffeur to carry upstairs a small trunk, and please have no air of surprise.” 
Evidently Miss Craigie was in the habit of obeying Mrs. Enderby. She opened the front door and called the chauffeur, who came in with the trunk. 
“Turn your back!” whispered Mrs. Enderby to Lexy. “Go and look out of the window!” 
Lexy heard the man go past the sitting room and up the stairs. Presently he came running down, and the front door closed after him. 
“Now, Miss Craigie,” said Mrs. Enderby, “if you will permit Miss Moran to go upstairs?” 
“Oh, certainly!” answered the bewildered Miss Craigie. “Whatever you think best, Mrs. Enderby, I’m sure.” 
“Go!” said Mrs. Enderby. 
The lady’s tone aroused in Lexy a great desire not to go. Of course, now that she had gone so far, it would be childish to refuse to continue; but she meant to take her time. She stood there by the window, slowly drawing off her gloves, her back turned to the room. Suddenly Mrs. Enderby caught her by the shoulder and turned her around. 
In his car, he prodded at his phone. He had her wiretapped, of course. He was a cop—every phone and every computer was an open book to him, so that this involved nothing more than dialing a number on his special copper’s phone, entering her number and a PIN, and then listening as his daughter had truck with a criminal enterprise. 
“Welcome to ExcuseClub! There are 43 members on the network this morning. You have five excuses to your credit. Press one to redeem an excuse—” She toned one. “Press one if you need an adult—” Tone . “Press one if you need a woman; press two if you need a man—” Tone . “Press one if your excuse should be delivered by your doctor; press two for your spiritual representative; press three for your case-worker; press four for your psycho-health specialist; press five for your son; press six for your father—” Tone . “You have selected to have your excuse delivered by your father. Press one if this excuse is intended for your case-worker; press two for your psycho-health specialist; press three for your principal—” Tone . “Please dictate your excuse at the sound of the beep. When you have finished, press the pound key.” 
>> his wife, he must have had an unbreakable hiding place. Lost cause at this point? 
All sources verify P. has not found it. If they are still searching, so are we. 
H. suggests it may have been removed from the scene but not handed over. Unlikely, but the zombies they use, it’s possible. Pursue that line. Let’s hope it was a blind spot. 
The beginnings of adrenaline had started tingling through me. I read the message again. The mention of a wife...could that mean...? 
“Arthur,” I called. He was next to me in a flash; I tried not to roll my eyes. “Arthur, was anything missing from Kingsley’s crime scene?” 
“Yeah. He had a USB drive he always wore around his neck, but they never found it. Was one of the things that made the whole thing weird—the doc said he never took it off.” 
The email was definitely talking about Kingsley, then, and he’d had a flash drive with...something...on it, and Pithica had been going crazy trying to find it. And apparently so had someone else, whoever had written this message... 
“I can.” 
His eyes strayed to the bodies, skittering across the blood. “God help me, I maybe believe you,” he mumbled, so softly I wasn’t sure he knew he said it out loud. 
I had a stolen M4 settled against my shoulder, waiting. But this time the building stayed quiet. 
One minute. 
Two minutes. 
“Get back into the room,” I said, taking my own advice and retreating to the table. 
“Ain’t got a vantage point,” Arthur objected. “When they come—” 
“They aren’t coming,” I said. 
“Wait, what? Russell—” 
“You can watch and wait if you want,” I said. But I couldn’t. If I did, I might compromise the whole plan. My eye fell on the scattered computer components. “I have to fix this,” I said, putting down the gun. 
“Russell—” started Arthur again. His tone clearly thought I had gone insane. 
I forced myself to turn my back to the door. “It’s important,” I said, and picked up a circuit board as if it had meaning. It was a PCI card of some kind. I didn’t even know what it did. 
I took the utility knife and started prying tiny microchips off it. They went flying into the chaos of components with tiny pings. 
“And then?” 
“Then I shall be guided by his advice,” Mrs. Enderby replied blandly. 
Lexy could have smiled at this. She knew how likely Mrs. Enderby was to be guided by her husband; but she kept the smile and the thought to herself. 
“I don’t want to interfere with your plans—” she began. 
“I have no plans.” 
“I mean, if you’re going to take steps to find her—” 
“My child,” said Mrs. Enderby, “it is clear that you wish to amuse yourself with a grand mystery. I tell you there is no mystery, but you do not believe me. I ask you to say nothing of this matter, but you refuse. So I say to you now—go your own way, proceed with your mystery. I do not think you can hurt me very much.” 
Lexy flushed. 
“I don’t want to hurt any one,” she declared stiffly. “I just want to help your daughter.” 
“Proceed, then!” said Mrs. Enderby. 
Lexy rose. 
“Then I’ll say good-by, Mrs. Enderby,” she said. “My trunk’s packed. I’ll send for it this afternoon.” 
“And where are you going in such a hurry?” 
“I’m going to Wyngate,” said Lexy. 
“Since what?” 
“Since I’ve seen them, clearly.” 
“Were you very small, then?” 
I didn’t answer. 
“When did you move to LA?” 
“A few years ago. Can we stop now?” 
“From where?” 
“I’ve lived a bunch of places. They all run together after a while.” 
“Like where?” 
“Other cities,” I scoffed. “Who remembers names?” 
“Cas,” said Checker. His voice was choked. “Listen to yourself. You can’t remember.” 
“Stupid stuff,” I agreed. 
“No. Anything. Your memory’s gone.” 
I almost laughed, the emotion edged with brittleness. “No, it isn’t.” Of all the things that were fucking me up in the head right now—that was ridiculous. I’d know if my memory was gone. 
It was Checker’s turn not to say anything. 
“I remember things!” The words tore out of me, almost rising to hysteria, Checker’s thrown gauntlet hanging between us. “I remember plenty of things! It’s perfectly normal for the details to fade. That’s not something wrong with me; that’s normal; that’s—I bet you don’t remember anything from when you were five. See?” 
Aurelia could have understood the feeling of a narrow-minded and conventional hen who has brought a strange, intrepid duckling into the world; but her situation was still more wonderful, for she could only compare her sensations to those of some quiet brown Dorking who has...  a bird of paradise. Such an idea had crossed her mind more than once during the past fortnight, and it flashed to and fro this mellow October morning when Rebecca came into the room with her arms full of goldenrod and flaming autumn leaves. 
"Just a hint of the fall styles, mother," she said, slipping the stem of a gorgeous red and yellow sapling between the mattress and the foot of the bed. "This was leaning over the pool, and I was afraid it would be vain if I left it there too long looking at its beautiful reflection, so I took it away from danger; isn't it wonderful? How I wish I could carry one to poor aunt Miranda to-day! There's never a flower in the brick house when I'm away." 
It was a marvelous morning. The sun had climbed into a world that held in remembrance only a succession of golden days and starlit nights. The air was fragrant with ripening fruit, and there was a mad little bird on a tree outside the door nearly bursting his throat with joy of living. He had forgotten that summer was over, that winter must ever come; and who could think of cold winds, bare boughs, or frozen streams on such a day? A painted moth came in at the open window and settled on the tuft of brilliant leaves. Aurelia heard the bird and looked from the beauty of the glowing bush to her tall, splendid daughter, standing like young Spring with golden Autumn in her arms. 
“You give her a heart attack, you’ll never get your proof.” My tongue was still thick and languid in my mouth, but the words had enough shape to make sense. 
“Can I tell you a secret?” He leaned close, his breath hot on my ear. “I doubt you’ll be a very good incentive. But I don’t really care.” He pushed off and walked away. 
Yeah. I’d pissed him off. Big time. 
And it wasn’t going to work out so well for me. 
“Is she all right?” came Martinez’s grandmotherly voice. 
“How nice that you care,” said the Lancer. He’d retreated to a spot between us, leaning on his cane, the meditation balls going in his other hand. “Dr. Martinez, you’ve told me you won’t part with certain information on a proof that—” he brayed his hyena laugh—“that I know you have. But I think we can change your mind.” He gestured at me. “We’re going to start by torturing your friend here, who so conveniently made herself available. If that doesn’t work, we’ll go out and find another one of your friends, or we’ll find your family, any family you have—children, grandchildren, newborn babies...do you want that?” 
"Yes, dear, long ago." 
"What happened, aunt Jane?" 
"He died—just before." 
"Oh!" And Rebecca's eyes grew misty. 
"He was a soldier and he died of a gunshot wound, in a hospital, down South." 
"Oh! aunt Jane!" softly. "Away from you?" 
"No, I was with him." 
"Was he young?" 
"Yes; young and brave and handsome, Rebecca; he was Mr. Carter's brother Tom." 
"Oh! I'm so glad you were with him! Wasn't he glad, aunt Jane?" 
Jane looked back across the half-forgotten years, and the vision of Tom's gladness flashed upon her: his haggard smile, the tears in his tired eyes, his outstretched arms, his weak voice saying, "Oh, Jenny! Dear Jenny! I've wanted you so, Jenny!" It was too much! She had never breathed a word of it before to a human creature, for there was no one who would have understood. Now, in a shamefaced way, to hide her brimming eyes, she put her head down on the young shoulder beside her, saying, "It was hard, Rebecca!" 
The Simpson baby had cuddled down sleepily in Rebecca's lap, leaning her head back and sucking her thumb contentedly. Rebecca put her cheek down until it touched her aunt's gray hair and softly patted her, as she said, "I'm sorry, aunt Jane!" 
How did he know that? But he was right. I felt the way I had the first time I tried to sit in Zen meditation in Kyoto. As then, my body was relaxing but my wayward brain was still coursing. 
"I'll try," I said, attempting to go along. What I really was feeling was the overwhelming sense of his presence, drawing me to him. 
Next he moved around behind me and cradled my head in his hands, placing his long fingertips on my forehead, sort of the same way he'd done when I was standing with him on the windy heath, nursing a killer cold. All the while, the drone seemed to be increasing to a piercing, overwhelming volume, as though a powerful electrical force were growing in the room, sending me into an alpha state of relaxation. 
"What are you doing? Is this how you do an exam for—?" 
"The medical tests you had showed there's nothing wrong with your uterus or your Fallopian tubes, nothing that should inhibit conception. There's no need to pursue that any further. But the mind and the body are a single entity that must be harmonized, must work as one. Although each individual has different energy flows, I think my regimen here could be very helpful to you. Already I can tell your problem is a self-inflicted trauma that has negated the natural condition wherein your mind and body work in unison." 
Arthur cleared his throat. “Just the one.” 
“Thank Christ,” I grumbled. “See? I told you so. It pays to be prepared.” 
“Stop gloating.” 
“Fine. What about Halliday?” 
“I reached her. Told her to lie low. She’s going to her friend’s, Dr. Martinez’s—says she’s safe.” 
“Good.” Well, unless Dr. Martinez was the one responsible for all this, I reminded myself. Fuck. I pushed my fingers against my throbbing temples. The violence was escalating so quickly...“Why wouldn’t they have just killed Halliday in the first place?” 
Arthur flinched. “From what you said about deciphering the math, maybe they knew they might need her. ’Sides, the authorities would investigate a murder. They must’ve figured intimidation would work better.” 
“And if they kill us, it doesn’t connect back to Halliday if no one knows about the proof, because there are a thousand other good reasons people might want one of us dead. Plus maybe killing us intimidates her more,” I said, thinking aloud. A ploy like that could have worked out very well for them, if they hadn’t failed at the killing-us part. “How did they even know she talked to us?” 
“I’m not uncomfortable,” I said. “I was just confused.” 
“About what?” 
“You flirt with everyone,” I pointed out mechanically. “You don’t do it with me.” 
His face wrinkled in surprise. “Well, I did, when we first met, but you never flirted back. I try not to be a creeper.” 
“Oh,” I said. 
“Cas?” He touched my arm. I’d never taken note before of how tactile Checker was. The relief-mixed-with-strangeness flooded back, an almost dangerous feeling. Daring me. 
“I don’t want anything from you, either,” I said. I slid my hand down so I was touching his, very lightly. It was the strangest sensation in the world. “But I want...to not think for a while. Is that okay? Can we do that?” 
He turned his hand under mine, rotating it to interlace our fingers. “Yeah,” he said. “Sure. We can do that.” 
We let the soup grow...  breath was slow and even beside me, but I stayed staring up into the dark. I hadn’t drunk enough to pass out, and right now I wasn’t even sure if that would be enough. 
Besides, I felt...strange. Not better, not exactly, but less...untethered. Not because of the sex; I didn’t think that was the important piece. All I knew was that I felt less desolate, here, with the warmth of another person beside me, a person who cared enough to let me in out of the rain and be...whatever I needed. 
“Hello, Detective,” the Social Harmony man said. 
“Dad!” Ada said. He couldn’t see her, but he could hear that she had been crying. He nearly hauled off and popped the man one on the tip of his narrow chin, but before he could do more than twitch, the black robot had both his wrists in bondage. 
“Come in,” the Social Harmony man said, making a sweeping gesture and standing aside while the black robot brought him into the interrogation room. 
Ada had been crying. She was wrapped in two coils of black-robot arms, and her eyes were red-rimmed and puffy. He stared hard at her as she looked back at him. 
“Are you hurt?” he said. 
“No,” she said. 
“All right,” he said. 
He looked at the Social Harmony man, who wasn’t smirking, just watching curiously. 
“Leonard MacPherson,” he said, “it is my duty as a UNATS Detective Third Grade to inform you that you are under arrest for trade in contraband positronics. You have the following rights: to a trial per current rules of due process; to be free from self-incrimination in the absence of a court order to the contrary; to consult with a Social Harmony advocate; and to a speedy arraignment. Do you understand your rights?” 
The stage rumbled to the side door of the brick house, and Mr. Cobb handed Rebecca out like a real lady passenger. She alighted with great circumspection, put the bunch of faded flowers in her aunt Miranda's hand, and received her salute; it could hardly be called a kiss without injuring the fair name of that commodity. 
"You needn't 'a' bothered to bring flowers," remarked that gracious and tactful lady; "the garden 's always full of 'em here when it comes time." 
Jane then kissed Rebecca, giving a somewhat better imitation of the real thing than her sister. "Put the trunk in the entry, Jeremiah, and we'll get it carried upstairs this afternoon," she said. 
"I'll take it up for ye now, if ye say the word, girls." 
"No, no; don't leave the horses; somebody'll be comin' past, and we can call 'em in." 
"Well, good-by, Rebecca; good-day, Mirandy 'n' Jane. You've got a lively little girl there. I guess she'll be a first-rate company keeper." 
Miss Sawyer shuddered openly at the adjective "lively" as applied to a child; her belief being that though children might be seen, if absolutely necessary, they certainly should never be heard if she could help it. "We're not much used to noise, Jane and me," she remarked acidly. 
That was a cultural norm I didn't remember, and I sus­pected she'd just changed her mind about the wisdom of my eating local food. 
I smiled at the women and used some...  thanks. 
They beamed as though they understood me. Who could say? But they'd been intensely interested in watching me eat, even more than Marcelina. 
Work on her. Now. 
"Marcelina." I turned to her, only vaguely noticing she hadn't had a bite. "Do you understand why Dr. Goddard moved me down to the operating room yesterday? There in the clinic? What did he tell you?" 
"He said it was for special tests." Her voice was gentle through the gloom. "You were very . . . sleepy. You must have been very, very tired. But he told me something in your blood work was unusual, so he had me bring you down for a pelvic exam. I gave you a sedative"—she was pointing at the Band-Aid still on my arm—"the way we always do. But then he said you were fine." 
"Do you realize he did things to my body I didn't agree to?" I studied her trusting Mayan face and tried to get a sense of how much she knew about what was going on. That was when I first became sure of an increasing disquiet in her eyes, as she kept glancing away. Why was she so un­comfortable talking about Alex Goddard? "And I think he did some of those same things to Sarah." 
His apathetic manner exasperated Lexy. 
“But I don’t care how quiet it is,” she observed. 
“My wife and I like a quiet life,” he said. “My wife asked me to explain, Miss Moran, that she is something of a recluse. Her health prevents her from calling upon you; but she wished me to say that she would be very happy to see you at the Tower, whenever it may be convenient for you to call, any afternoon after four o’clock.” 
“Thank you,” replied Lexy. “Please thank Mrs. Quelton. I shall be very pleased to come.” 
And now why didn’t he go away? This visit was apparently a painful duty for him. He had delivered his message, and yet he lingered. 
“A very quiet place,” he repeated; “but perhaps you are not sociably inclined?” 
“Oh, I’m sociable enough—at times,” said Lexy. 
“But at the present time you prefer solitude? For the purposes of your work? As a change from the stimulating atmosphere of the city?” 
Any mention of her work made Lexy uncomfortable. 
“Well, yes,” she answered in a dubious tone. 
“Kid stuff, I guess. Let it go.” 
“You guess?” 
“It was a long time ago,” I growled. “And I told you to drop it.” 
“If you don’t want to tell me, I get it,” said Checker. “I do. But just tell me one thing. This thing about you not remembering your first time—that’s not a cover? You really don’t remember?” 
I blinked. My emotions were spiraling back down into depression, and I was so tired. I didn’t have the energy for this. “I said I don’t remember.” 
“So it’s not a cover for, uh, for whatever you did before.” 
I snorted. “Don’t be an idiot. If I wanted to have a cover for anything in my past, I’d have a good story; I wouldn’t claim a bad memory.” 
“That’s kind of what I thought.” He still sounded funny. 
I buried my face in the pillow. “Christ almighty, Checker. I have no idea what the hell you’re talking about.” 
“What was your name?” he said. “Before you were Cas Russell?” 
I felt as if I had been walking through the dark and had missed a step, even though I was still lying on the bed. The interview with the DHS flashed back to me, Agent Jones aggressive and in my face: What’s your real name? “That’s always been my name,” I said. 
Sorensen seems to worry less about the missing drones than the implications of his survey. "But that means the passengers are all who they appear to be— and who they say they are. What does that leave us? One of the franchises?" 
Ray shakes his head, frowning. "Security Chief Becker's background checks and pre-boarding examinations  were more than thorough, Commander. If Lilaiken extremists have infiltrated this vessel, it wasn't via that channel." 
"That isn't to say they're all doing business strictly above board," Becker says carefully. "Just that it's something other than weapons they're peddling on the side." 
Sorensen scowls, indicating he has no current interest in pursuing those topics. "So we've cleared the passengers and the imported labor. God knows we've cleared the crew. What does that leave?" Here, the scowl deepens, mostly in Ray's direction. "What does that leave except bad intelligence, Mr. Marlowe? Other than a completely unwarranted load of aggravation your presence has bid me to endure for the last six months?" 
Then two middle-aged men with Latin mustaches and nondescript brown shirts began getting out through the door on the far side. They next walked around to the terminal side of the car and glanced up the steps in my direction, as though looking for somebody. It was a quick survey, after which they turned back and nodded to the vehicle before it sped away. 
What's that about? Am I imagining things already? 
By the time I reached the bottom of the steps, I was being besieged by clamoring cabbies, so it was difficult to keep an eye on the two men, who were now walking off to the side of the main commotion, toward a shady grove of palms at the end of the arrival drive, lighting cigarettes. 
Get out of here. Whether you're fantasizing or not, the thing to do is grab an unsuspecting cab and get going. 
I strolled toward the other end of the long row of concrete steps till I reached an area where cabs were parked, more drivers lurking in wait. They all looked the same way most cabbies in Third World lands look: shabby clothes, with beat-up cars, an expression in their eyes somewhere between ag­gression and desperation. 
“Never mind!” said Lexy. “We’ll have a nice hot cup of tea, and then we’ll go to the grocery store. There’s a telephone there.” 
She made the captain drink his tea and eat a little. Then she ran upstairs for her hat; and she was very angry at Charles Houseman for running away. 
They set off together down the village street. There was no one about at that hour. All Wyngate was partaking of its Sunday night supper within doors, and one or two of the little wooden houses showed lights in the front windows; but for the most part life was concentrated in the kitchen. 
The drug store was locked, but a dim light was burning inside, and a vigorous ringing of the night bell brought Mr. Binz, the owner, to open the door. He was deeply interested in their errand. He suggested St. Luke’s Hospital, for the reason that he had once been there himself, and therefore held it almost sacred. 
“But,” he said, in his slow and impressive way, “if I was you, I’d ring up Doc Quelton first, and find out how things are going up there; because you may find out—” 
Charles Houseman, who had believed everything that Lexy had said, did not appear convinced of this; and for some inexplicable reason Lexy was not greatly displeased by his lack of belief. 
Mrs. Royce was very much pleased to see her pet, Miss Moran, return. She was well disposed toward Mr. Houseman, too, and willingly agreed to put him up for a few days. She set to work at once to cook a good lunch for them, but she did not hum under her breath, as was her usual habit. In fact, she was greatly perplexed and worried. 
When her guests were seated at the table, she retired, leaving them alone; but she did not go very far. She remained close to the door, so that she could look through the crack. She observed that Miss Moran seemed very lively and cheerful with this newcomer—though she had been quite as lively and cheerful with Captain Grey. 
“Well, I don’t know, I’m sure!” said Mrs. Royce to herself, with a sigh. “It beats me !” 
For the question which so troubled her was—which young man was the young man? 
The next morning a strong man knocked at the cottage door, and doffing his hat to the Princess said: "A golden chariot passed me yesterday, and one within it flung me a purse of ducats, saying: 'Go out into the King's Highway and search until you find a cottage and a heavy plough leaning against a tree near by. Enter and say to the Princess whom you will find there: "I will guide the plough and you must go and rest, or walk in the cool green forest; for this is the command of your Fairy Godmother."'" 
And the same thing happened every day, and every day the tired Princess walked in the green wood. Many times she caught the glitter of the chariot and ran into the Highway to give thanks to the Fairy Godmother; but she was never fleet enough to reach the spot. She could only stand with eager eyes and longing heart as the chariot passed by. Yet she never failed to catch a smile, and sometimes a word or two floated back to her, words that sounded like: "I would not be thanked. We are all children of the same King, and I am only his messenger." 
He shrugged. "If we had a better way of finding relevance in mountains of data, we'd be using it ourselves to figure out what to sell you." 
"Good point. Let's turn this around. Why should Viktor meet with you?" 
He was ready for this one. "We have a track-record of designing products that suit people in his..." Talking about the vat-born lent itself to elliptical statements. Maybe that's why Brautigan had developed that annoying telegraph-talk. 
"You've designed one such product," she said. 
"That's one more than almost anyone else can claim." There were two other firms like Ate. He thought of them in his head as Sefen and Nein, as though invoking their real names might cause them to appear. "I'm new here, but I'm not alone. We're tied in with some of the finest designers, engineers, research scientists..." Again with the ellipsis. "You wanted to get to the good part. This isn't the good part, Ria. You've got smart people. We've got smart people. What we have, what you don't have, is smart people who are impedance-mismatched to your organization. Every organization has quirks that make it unsuited to working with some good people and good ideas. You've got your no-go areas, just like anyone else. We're good at mining that space, the no-go space, the mote in your eye, for things that you need." 
"You understand her mind better, but not necessarily her heart. You are considering her for the moment as prodigy; I am thinking of her more as pearl." 
"Well," sighed Miss Maxwell whimsically, "prodigy or pearl, the Randall Protective Agency may pull Rebecca in opposite directions, but nevertheless she will follow her saint." 
"That will content me," said Adam gravely. 
"Particularly if the saint beckons your way." And Miss Maxwell looked up and smiled provokingly. 
Rebecca did not see her aunt Miranda till she had been at the brick house for several days. Miranda steadily refused to have any one but Jane in the room until her face had regained its natural look, but her door was always ajar, and Jane fancied she liked to hear Rebecca's quick, light step. Her mind was perfectly clear now, and, save that she could not move, she was most of the time quite free from pain, and alert in every nerve to all that was going on within or without the house. "Were the windfall apples being picked up for sauce; were the potatoes thick in the hills; was the corn tosselin' out; were they cuttin' the upper field; were they keepin' fly-paper laid out everywheres; were there any ants in the dairy; was the kindlin' wood holdin' out; had the bank sent the cowpons?" 
Amazing. Becker was not kidding when he said these kids were bright. 
But they liked Captain Shadow, so they couldn't be too freakish— though he may very well have overassessed the level of esteem in which they held him. They probably just thought he was an idiot. 
"Yes, they are precocious, Mr. Marlowe." 
Amah stands in the doorway, leaning on the lintel, tattooed and hideous. She's not any easier to look at the second time around. "I didn't mean to get them excited right before bed." 
"Precocious children need very little excuse to excite themselves in my experience, but it wasn't poorly attempted, Mr. Marlowe. Merely a poor execution. You haven't spent much time around children I take it." 
"Just my brother, ma'am." Probably not the best source of precedent. 
"Your brother must be longsuffering." 
"Longsuffering or dimwitted. I was never certain which. " 
She ventures into the room, picking her way around the rows of desks until she's standing nearer to them. 
She's taller than he expected, almost as tall as he is. Her bulk is not fat, her body not neglected, but wide and sinewy, strong. 
"Well, it won't; an' if 't is, why we'll have to face it out; though in my opinion there's things that won't bear facin' out an' had better be settled comfortable an' quiet. You see you ain't run away yet; you've only come over here to consult me 'bout runnin' away, an' we've concluded it ain't wuth the trouble. The only real sin you've committed, as I figger it out, was in comin' here by the winder when you'd ben sent to bed. That ain't so very black, an' you can tell your aunt Jane 'bout it come Sunday, when she's chock full o' religion, an' she can advise you when you'd better tell your aunt Mirandy. I don't believe in deceivin' folks, but if you've hed hard thoughts you ain't obleeged to own 'em up; take 'em to the Lord in prayer, as the hymn says, and then don't go on hevin' 'em. Now come on; I'm all hitched up to go over to the post-office; don't forget your bundle; 'it's always a journey, mother, when you carry a nightgown;' them 's the first words your uncle Jerry ever heard you say! He didn't think you'd be bringin' your nightgown over to his house. Step in an' curl up in the corner; we ain't goin' to let folks see little runaway gals, 'cause they're goin' back to begin all over ag'in!" 
"Blastocyst material from embryos after third extraction shows 84% decrease in cellular viability. No longer usable." 
My God, had he made her permanently sterile? 
While that obscenity was sinking in, I went back and clicked on my own name. The date was today, the number was 233. He'd just taken 233 of my ova. I stared at the screen and felt faint. 
No medical analysis had yet been entered, but it didn't matter. I stared at the screen, feeling numb, for a full minute before clicking back to Sarah's page. Yes, I was right. The last date was just six weeks before she was found in a coma, down the river from here. . . . 
No more mystery. He'd...  and they'd finally stopped working. Not "special" anymore. So her "program" had been "terminated." In the river. 
My stomach was churning, bile in my throat, and I thought I was going to throw up. I took a deep breath, slowly, and stopped myself. Before I got Sarah and we got the hell out of Baalum , I was going to smash everything in this lab. 
So I knew that crypto would keep me safe from eavesdroppers, but I wasn't ready to deal with histograms. 
I got off the BART and waved my card over the turnstile as I headed up to the 24th Street station. As usual, there were lots of weirdos hanging out in the station, drunks and Jesus freaks and intense Mexican men staring at the ground and a few gang kids. I looked straight past them as I hit the stairs and jogged up to the surface. My bag was empty now, no longer bulging with the ParanoidXbox discs I'd been distributing, and it made my shoulders feel light and put a spring in my step as I came up the street. The preachers were at work still,...  about Jesus and so on. 
The counterfeit sunglass sellers were gone, but they'd been replaced by guys selling robot dogs that barked the national anthem and would lift their legs if you showed them a picture of Osama bin Laden. There was probably some cool stuff going on in their little brains and I made a mental note to pick a couple of them up and take them apart later. Face-recognition was pretty new in toys, having only recently made the leap from the military to casinos trying to find cheats, to law enforcement. 
Amah stands in the doorway, leaning on the lintel, tattooed and hideous. She's not any easier to look at the second time around. "I didn't mean to get them excited right before bed." 
"Precocious children need very little excuse to excite themselves in my experience, but it wasn't poorly attempted, Mr. Marlowe. Merely a poor execution. You haven't spent much time around children I take it." 
"Just my brother, ma'am." Probably not the best source of precedent. 
"Your brother must be longsuffering." 
"Longsuffering or dimwitted. I was never certain which. " 
She ventures into the room, picking her way around the rows of desks until she's standing nearer to them. 
She's taller than he expected, almost as tall as he is. Her bulk is not fat, her body not neglected, but wide and sinewy, strong. 
Amah frowns at him. "I regret the tone of our last meeting. Our first meeting, perhaps I should say. I was not as gracious as perhaps I should have been with you." 
"I gave you plenty of reasons to be suspicious. Don't worry about it." 
“Yes,” he said. “Yes, I saw her.” 
Lexy was hurt and disappointed by his manner. Evidently he didn’t want to tell her anything, didn’t want to talk at all. Very well—the only thing for her to do was to maintain a dignified silence. She did so for almost ten minutes, but then nature got the upper hand. 
“Well?” she demanded. “Was everything all right?” 
“All right?” he repeated. “Oh, rather! Oh, yes, thanks—absolutely all right.” 
This was too much for Lexy. 
“That’s good,” she said frigidly. “I’m going upstairs now, to write some letters.” 
Her tone aroused him. He sprang to his feet, very contrite. 
“No! Look here!” he said. “Please don’t run away! I—I want to talk to you, but it’s a bit hard. You can’t imagine what it’s like to see one of your own people, you know—after such a long time.” 
Lexy sat down again. 
“Was she as you expected her to be?” she asked. 
“I don’t quite know what I expected,” he said. “Only—” 
He paused for a long time, and Lexy waited patiently, for she felt very sorry for Captain Grey. At first sight she had imagined him to be haughty, stiff, and aloof. She knew now that he was a very sensitive man. He was terribly moved, and he wanted to tell her, but he couldn’t. 
Lexy appreciated all this, and she liked the young man very much—perhaps as much as he liked her; but the sympathetic understanding which had promised to develop on the night when they talked together in the firelight had never developed. 
Something had checked it. They were the best of friends, but Captain Grey never again referred to what Lexy had told him about Caroline Enderby, and about her reason for coming to Wyngate; and Lexy said nothing, either. Evidently he thought that it had been a far-fetched, romantic notion of hers, and hoped that she had forgotten all about it. 
Lexy did not try to undeceive him. Her story would be too fantastic for him to believe. Nobody would believe it, except a person with absolute faith not only in her honesty but in her intelligence and clearsightedness; and there was no such person. She was not resentful or grieved over this. She accepted it quietly, and prepared to go forward alone. 
It had occurred to her lately that perhaps Mr. Houseman had been right, and that Caroline had gone away of her own free will; but she meant to know . She had seen the missing girl in Dr. Quelton’s house. Whatever the doctor might say about the false evidence of the senses, Lexy’s confidence in her own clear gray eyes was not in the least shaken. She had seen Caroline once, and she was going to see her again. That was why she was going to the Tower. 
“Mack’s Garage,” said a gravelly voice on the other end. 
“Anton, it’s Cas Russell. I need some information.” 
He grunted. “Usual rates.” 
“Yeah. I need everything you can get on the word Pithica.” 
“Spelling?” 
“I’m not sure. There might be some ties to Colombian drug runners. And the authorities might be investigating already.” 
He grunted again. “Two hours.” 
“Got it.” I hung up. Anton was one of several information brokers in the city, and I’d hired him not infrequently over the past couple of years, whenever I wanted to know more than a standard Internet search would give me. If “Pithica” had a paper trail, I was betting he could find it. 
“Come on,” I said to Courtney, shepherding her back to the car. “We’re going to hit rush hour as it is.” 
“Do you have cash, or is your money all in the bank?” I asked Courtney as we inched forward through the eternal parking lot of the 405 freeway, the heat beating down through the windshield and slowly cooking us. The temperature had catapulted up by a full thirty-four degrees Fahrenheit with the rising sun as we finally headed into the city: Los Angeles at its finest. Our current junkpot car didn’t have air conditioning, and the still air and stalled traffic meant even rolling down the windows didn’t help one whit. 
“Yeah, amazing, huh? What an idiot.” 
“Is there any chance he’s like Zip, somebody the FBI hired to provoke people?” 
Nikko looked as if I’d just handed him a giant hairball. He thought for a minute, replaying things in his head. “No,” he finally said. “He’s not a good actor.” 
“What do you mean? All he does is act.” 
“He’s pretending. There’s a difference. He wants to be a cer- tain kind of person, so he pretends he’s a radical, a guy brave enough to stand up to the Man. He’s good at fooling himself, 
but acting means being able to read people. I don’t think he pays enough attention to other people, except as a kind of mirror he can gaze in to see how awesome he is. If he was going to work for the FBI, he’d have the loudmouth part down, but he’d have trou- ble drawing other people in.” 
“I see what you mean.” I thought back to the creepy way Zip manipulated people so that they would want to be admitted into his inner circle. It was partly by showing off, like Simon, but there was more to it than that. When he looked at me, he was paying attention, adjusting his identity to make it appeal to me. He was much better at manipulation because he wasn’t as fixated on him- self as Simon was. “I think I’m just nervous. Jumping at shadows.” 
I stole Arthur’s car—he’d be pissed; he had to go prep Zhang once the Feds let him loose, and needing a ride from them first would make things more difficult, but I didn’t care. At the perimeter, I got very, very lucky: the agents in the house hadn’t known I was leaving, so hadn’t told the agents downhill to stop me, and they were used to my face moving in and out of the safe house. They waved me through. 
I’d claim ignorance later. No idea you wanted me to stay and give a statement about the biggest information theft since the Rosenbergs. No sir, no ma’am, no idea at all. 
The sun was setting, suffusing the city in soft twilight. Driving through the mountains dipped me into deep shadow before catapulting me back into the last rays of the day. It would have been pretty, if I’d been in a mindset to care about such things. 
I didn’t know where I was going till I’d gotten there. 
A graveyard. 
My feet had stopped itching. 
I turned off the car and sat for a moment. What the hell was going on? 
"Yogurt, too," he said, nodding vigorously. "For the fruit salad. They throw it out the day after the best-before date, but it's not as if it goes green at midnight. It's yogurt, I mean, it's basically...  
I swallowed. The pizza tasted funny. Rat poison. Spoiled yogurt. Furry strawberries. This would take some getting used to. 
I ate another bite. Actually, Domino's pizza sucked a little less when you got it for free. 
Liam's sleeping bag was warm and welcoming after a long, emotionally exhausting day. Van would have made contact with Barbara by now. She'd have the video and the picture. I'd call her in the morning and find out what she thought I should do next. I'd have to come in once she published, to back it all up. 
I thought about that as I closed my eyes, thought about what it would be like to turn myself in, the cameras all rolling, following the infamous M1k3y into one of those big, columnated buildings in Civic Center. 
The sound of the cars screaming by overhead turned into a kind of ocean sound as I drifted away. There were other tents nearby, homeless people. I'd met a few of them that afternoon, before it got dark and we all retreated to huddle near our own tents. They were all older than me, rough looking and gruff. None of them looked crazy or violent, though. Just like people who'd had bad luck, or made bad decisions, or both. 
“That guy just now, in the park,” said Tresting. “You went to shoot him.” 
“Piece of crap gun misfired,” I said. “Look, he was trying to grab us or kill us, one of the two—” 
“Yeah, and that’s another good reason to avoid that sort of fubared situation in the first place: what if you got a jam in the middle of capping those snipers? Or if there was more than four? But that ain’t my point. First you tried to shoot him, and then...I don’t know where you learned to fight, but you kicked him so hard...” He swallowed. “Shit. I was almost sick on the street right there.” 
I thought back. I’d been in the throes of adrenaline at the time, but now I could remember the feeling of his face collapsing against my boot—I cut off that line of thought. “He was a threat,” I insisted stubbornly. 
“And now he’s dead, ain’t he?” said Tresting. I didn’t answer. “What about our buddy Finch and his boss? They dead too?” 
“No,” I said. “It would’ve been too hard to get the leverage from that distance.” 
“Listen to yourself,” Tresting said, his voice cracking. 
"Well, I've . . . Look, I'd rather not talk about this on the phone. But do you think you could get free and drive over I really could use your help. I've got a situation." 
"Well . . ." He paused. "I could be there by late tomorrow assuming my rented Jeep still operates after last week and the roads haven't totally disintegrated. Where're you going to be staying?" 
"I don't know. Got any suggestions? I want to keep out of the limelight." 
Which he did, though I could hear him stumbling around the room in the dark. Then he continued. 
"But listen, here's the bad news. I've got to be back here day after tomorrow. I just got a special permit to do some night shooting in the jaguar preserve down by Victoria Peak—you remember the rain forest I told you about?—but it's only good for one night, and I hear rumors there's an off-season hurricane forming in the Caribbean, which means I've got to stick to schedule. After that, though, I'm free again." 
"We'll work it out." I was thrilled he would just drop everything and come. Maybe we were over the rough spot about the baby. 
"Isn't that nice ," Adele said. 
They left Grampa and Ethan sitting at the table together. Sean looked back over his shoulder before they got on the elevator, and Grampa was still switched on, staring hard at him. 
"You must be excited about seeing your father again," Adele said to him when they were sitting around the pool. 
Sean was getting the hang of talking to Adele. "Ethan and my grandfather seem to be hitting it off." 
"Oh, I certainly hope so! Ethan could use some friends at that place." 
Sean pictured the two of them, seated across from each other at the ward table, running maintenance routines at each other, saying, "Yes," "Yes." Unbidden, a grin came to Sean's face. 
"Why did you put Ethan in the Home?" Sean asked, shifting to catch more sun on his face. 
"He wanted to go," she said. "The doctor came by and told him about it and asked him if he wanted to go, and he said 'Yes.' That was it!" 
Sean snuck a look at Adele. She was wincing into the light, following it like a sunflower. "Adele," he said. 
"Honey, you sitting down?" I said. 
"I'm lying down. You wouldn't believe my day." 
"You 're not going to believe what I just heard from the pharmacist at the corner. Remember I told you I've been feeling strange, and some things were a little behind sched­ule? Well, guess what. We're about to find out something. We can't be together, but we can share it over a satellite." 
"You mean . . ." 
"I'm doing the test right now. You know, you take the stick out of the glass holder and if it's turned pink. . . ." 
He was speechless for a long moment. Finally he just said, "Wow." 
I checked the clock again, then reached for the test tube. This, I realized, is the most incredible moment in any woman's life. Is your world going to go on being the same, or is it never, ever going to be the same again? 
When I pulled out the stick, it was a bright, beautiful pink. 
"Steve. I love you. It's—" 
"Max." He didn't realize it, but his voice had just gone up an octave. 
"What?" 
"That's my dad's middle name. I want to name him Max. It's an old family tradition." 
"If you get me started we'll be standing here all day." He's fairly certain he's making a fool of himself. Despite everything, just seeing her overwhelms him. "You make me feel dizzy." 
Emma puts her finger to her lips, hushing him. 
She mouths one word: wonderful. 
But with a toss of her head, she indicates the space behind her. Someone listening in. He suspects this is supposed to make him feel instantly and utterly abashed, but it doesn't. Whoever it is, he owes them a debt of dignity. 
So he'll have something less awkward to do, Ray thrusts the package of chocolates at her. Grins like an idiot. 
preferably right where he is, even more preferably, without chewing on anything that looks expensive. A brief, but frenzied negotiation results in Emma unwrapping the bundle and handing over a piece of chocolate to placate him. 
She leads him through a brief vestibule of white marble floors, soft wood paneling and fine Grecian urns mounted on Romanesque stone pillars, both of which, Ray suspects, are actual antiquities rather than clever reproductions thereof. Through an arched doorway is a large parlor that is everything one would expect from a Whiston family domestic space. The carpet is plush, white, dreadfully soft. There are leather chairs sprinkled about in chummy groups which break up the uncharacteristic vastness of the open room. Low bookcases neatly arranged with dark leather volumes stamped with gold lettering on the spines line two of the walls. The wall directly to Ray's right is taken up by a massive vid screen, currently dark, but bracketed on each side by fading frescoed tiles, what seem to be remnants of ancient Pompeii. A tasteful assortment of lamps and flowers, flowers hiding lamps, lamps shaped like flowers, generate a white glare that is almost dazzling.  And Ray might be tempted to be dazzled, except he suddenly remembers something Emma had said to him. 
“Something else?” he repeated. “Something else? And what may that be?” 
Lexy looked up at him. There was a smile on his heavy, pallid face, aloof and contemptuous; but she was chiefly concerned just then in trying to put into words her own firm conviction, more for her own benefit than for his. It was not reason that had brought her here to look for Caroline, it was not reason that sustained her. 
“There’s something else,” she said again, with a frown. “There’s a way of knowing things without reason. It’s—I don’t know just how to put it, but it’s a thing beyond reason.” 
He laughed, and she thought she had never heard a more unpleasant laugh. 
“Certainly!” he said. “Beyond reason lies—unreason.” 
“I don’t mean that,” said Lexy. “I mean—” 
She stopped, because he had abruptly turned away and was walking toward the door. She stood where she was, amazed by this unique rudeness; but in the doorway he turned. 
“The thing beyond reason!” he said, almost in a whisper. Then, with a sudden and complete change of manner, he went on: “It has been very interesting to meet you, Miss Moran. My wife will enjoy a visit from you. Any afternoon, after four o’clock!” He bowed politely. “After four o’clock,” he repeated, and off he went. 
“But the nurse—” 
“Put on your best commanding officer’s air,” said Lexy. “You can be awfully impressive when you like. If I were you, there’s nothing I’d stop at.” 
“Yes, but look here—what can I say to Quelton when he hears about it?” 
“Laugh it off,” said Lexy. 
The idea of Captain Grey trying to laugh off anything made her grin from ear to ear. 
“Not much of a joke, though, is it?” he said rather stiffly. “Suppose he hoofs us out of the house?” 
“Oh, dear!” cried Lexy. “You’re not a bit resourceful! Let’s try it, anyhow. It’s horrible to think of her shut up like that. Perhaps she’s longing to see you.” 
He rose. 
“Right-o!” he said. “Let’s try it!” 
Together they went up the stairs and down the hall of the other wing, opposite that in which Lexy’s room was. Captain Grey knocked on a door, and a quiet, middle-aged little nurse came out. 
“I’ll just pop in to see how my sister’s getting on,” said the young man, and Lexy silently applauded his toploftical manner. 
“I’m sorry,” said the little nurse, “but Dr. Quelton has given strict orders—” 
He gave Mortimer his poker-chip. "Get a bag of ice for Joey," he said. "And thanks, man." 
Mortimer gave him the cop-stare and trudged off to one of the vending banks and started prodding methodically at its display. 
"All right," Lee-Daniel said, again, looking into the expectant, upturned faces of his company. "All right. 
"It's been a rough week for all of us. But we've had rough weeks before. Remember Wisconsin? That was in our first year, and the FCC looked like it was going to impound every bit of gear we owned. We spent a month on the Reservation, borrowing and borrowing to pay off the lawyers. No one got paid. I ate enough venison and corn-bread to last me a lifetime." 
Wisconsin was legendary. That was when they'd acquired the Series A investor, who'd converted its debt-instruments to capital when the Lac du Flambeau Ojibwa signed up their thousandth customer and started sending royalties to the company's e-gold account. Only Mortimer had actually been with the company long enough to remember the incident first-hand, which was good, since three quarters of the company had quit after the third week and he'd had to fire two more when they got caught hitting on some of the women on the Rez. 
› When you kill them, they lose their day’s wages. Do you know who is paying you to do these killings? 
She thought of Saudis, rich Japanese, Russian mobsters. 
› I’ve been trying to find that out myself, Kali. 
They were all dead now. Raymond stood alone amongst the piled corpses. 
› I will see you again, I’m sure. 
She cut his head off. Her wrists hurt. She was hungry. She was alone there in the enormous woodland cottage, and she still had to haul the BFG10K back to Fahrenheit Island. 
“Lucy?” 
“Yeah, yeah, I’m almost back there, hang on. I respawned in the ass end of nowhere.” 
“Lucy, do you know who’s in the cottage? Those noobs that we kill?” 
“What? Hell no. Noobs. Someone’s butler. I dunno. Jesus, that spawn gate—” 
“Girls. Little girls in Mexico. Getting paid a dollar a day to craft shirts. Except they don’t get their dollar when we kill them. They don’t get anything.” 
“Oh, for chrissakes, is that what one of them told you? Do you believe everything someone tells you in-game? Christ. English girls are so naive.” 
At that moment, Paul Nulty came barging out the door with a huge klieg light, followed by several other members of the crew carrying sound gear. Our cordial tete-a-tete was about to be disrupted. 
My new Hispanic friend saw them and abruptly drew up. That was when I noticed the shoulder holster under his jacket, containing some sort of snub-nosed pistol. 
Jesus, I thought, this must be what some kind of hired killer looks like. That gun's not a prop. 
"I think you are lying." He closed his jacket and, ignoring my crew, bored in relentlessly on me, his eyes dead and mer­ciless. "That is a big mistake." 
It was the first time in my life I'd ever stood next to a man who had a gun and was deeply ticked at me. He'd wanted me to see his piece, just to make sure I took him seriously. He wasn't threatening me, per se. Rather he was letting me know how strongly he cared about what I was doing. 
Well, damn him, but I still was scared. I might have man­aged to bluff Nicky Russo, but he was a guy who operated by an age-old set of Sicilian rules. This thug didn't strike me as the rule-book type. 
"You wouldn't darst," retorted Minnie. "If you do, I'll tell my mother and the teacher, so there!" 
"I don't care if you tell your mother, my mother, and all your relations, and the president," said Rebecca, gaining courage as the noble words fell from her lips. "I don't care if you tell the town, the whole of York county, the state of Maine and—and the nation!" she finished grandiloquently. "Now you run home and remember what I say. If you do it again, and especially if you say 'Jail Birds,' if I think it's right and my duty, I shall punish you somehow." 
The next morning at recess Rebecca observed Minnie telling the tale with variations to Huldah Meserve. "She THREATENED me," whispered Minnie, "but I never believe a word she says." 
The latter remark was spoken with the direct intention of being overheard, for Minnie had spasms of bravery, when well surrounded by the machinery of law and order. 
As Rebecca went back to her seat she asked Miss Dearborn if she might pass a note to Minnie Smellie and received permission. 
"My God you're right. I'm humiliated." I hugged him contritely, feeling like a self-centered twit. I guess I was too focused on Sarah. (I screw up a lot on birthdays too, always with an excuse.) "I don't even have a present for you. I've been so—" 
"That's okay." He grinned then stood up and headed for the shower. "Not the first time. But I've got one for both of us. We'll make it a gift to each other. It'll help start you thinking like a guatemalteco insider." 
"What? You sneak. What did you get?" 
"A trip back into the void of prehistoric time," he yelled over his shoulder. "I am the possessor of a little-known secret about this town. I called from Belize City this morning and made dinner reservations for us downtown. You'll see." 
God I loved this man. But the last thing on my mind at that moment was food. 
"Honey, I don't know if I'm really—" 
"Hey, don't wimp out on me. If we're going to do this place, at least we can do it in style. Besides, you can't live on smog alone. You gotta eat." 
The man made a note, clicked some more. "You see, I ask because I see a heavy spike of ads for model rocketry supplies showing up alongside your search results and Google mail." 
Greg felt his guts spasm. "You're looking at my searches and email?" He hadn't touched a keyboard in a month, but he knew that what you put into the searchbar was more intimate than what you told your father-confessor. He'd seen enough queries to know that. 
"Calm down, please. No, I'm not looking at your searches." The man made a bitter lemon face and went on in a squeaky voice. "That would be unconstitutional . You weren't listening to me. We see the ads that show up when you read your mail and do your searching. I have a brochure explaining it, I'll give it to you when we're through here." 
"But the ads don't mean anything -- I get ads for Ann Coulter ringtones whenever I get email from my friend who lives in Coulter, Iowa!" 
The man nodded. "I understand, sir. And that's just why I'm here talking to you, instead of just looking at this screen. Why do you suppose model rocket ads show up so frequently for you?" 
How she loved the swing and the sentiment of it! 
"But we'll meet no more at Bingen, dear...  sounded beautiful in her ears, as she sent her tearful little treble into the clear morning air. 
When Emma Jane Perkins walked through the "short cut" with her, the two children used to render this with appropriate dramatic action. Emma Jane always chose to be the woodman because she had nothing to do but raise on high an imaginary axe. On the one occasion when she essayed the part of the tree's romantic protector, she represented herself as feeling "so awful foolish" that she refused to undertake it again, much to the secret delight of Rebecca, who found the woodman's role much too tame for her vaulting ambition. She reveled in the impassioned appeal of the poet, and implored the ruthless woodman to be as brutal as possible with the axe, so that she might properly put greater spirit into her lines. One morning, feeling more frisky than usual, she fell upon her knees and wept in the woodman's petticoat. Curiously enough, her sense of proportion rejected this as soon as it was done. 
She was trapped in a coral cage much like his own, a thicket of calcified arms. She twisted around so that her face was alongside of his. Frantically, she made the out-of-air sign, cutting the edge of her hand across her throat. The human-shell’s instincts took over and unclipped his emergency regulator and handed it up to her. She put it in her mouth, pressed the button to blow out the water in it, and sucked greedily. 
He shoved his gauge in front of her mask, showing her that he, too was in the red and she eased off. 
The coral’s noises were everywhere now. They made his head hurt. Physical pain was so stupid. He needed to be less distracted now that these loud, threatening noises were everywhere. But the pain made it hard for him to think. And the coral was closing in, too, catching him on his wetsuit. 
The arms were orange and red and green, and veined with fans of nanoassembled logic, spilling out into the water. They were noticeably warm to the touch, even through his diving gloves. They snagged the suit with a thousand polyps. Robbie watched the air gauge drop further into the red and cursed inside. 
"The American consulate in Merida, Mexico, sent it up to 26 Federal Plaza yesterday, because my name and office address are penciled on the inside cover as an emergency contact. The police down there said somebody, some gringo...  the Usumacinta River, near where the Rio Tigre comes in from Guatemala, snagged this floating in a plastic bag. He turned it in to the Mexican authorities there, and it ended up with our people." He opened the passport and stared at it. "The photo and ID page is ripped out, but it's definitely Sarah's." He handed it over. "Guy I know downtown dropped it off last night. I'm not sure if it has anything to tell us, but now, I was hoping it might help jog her memory." 
I took it, the cover so waterlogged its color was almost gone. However, it must have been kept dry in the plastic bag for at least some of its trip from wherever, since much of the damage seemed recent. 
Lou shook his head staring wistfully at me. "I still don't know how she got down there. She was in California. Re­member that postcard? If she'd come back East, she'd have got in touch. Wouldn't she?" His eyes pleaded for my agree­ment. 
"Good boy," she purred. "We have some papers here for you to sign." She pushed the stack of papers across the table to me. Little post-its with SIGN HERE printed on them had been stuck throughout them. A guard undid my cuffs. 
I paged through the papers and my eyes watered and my head swam. I couldn't make sense of them. I tried to decipher the legalese. It seemed that I was signing a declaration that I had been voluntarily held and submitted to voluntary questioning, of my own free will. 
"What happens if I don't sign this?" I said. 
She snatched the papers back and made that flicking gesture again. The guards jerked me to my feet. 
"Wait!" I cried. "Please! I'll sign them!" They dragged me to the door. All I could see was that door, all I could think of was it closing behind me. 
I lost it. I wept. I begged to be allowed to sign the papers. To be so close to freedom and have it snatched away, it made me ready to do anything. I can't count the number of times I've heard someone say, "Oh, I'd rather die than do something-or-other" -- I've said it myself now and again. But that was the first time I understood what it really meant. I would have rather died than go back to my cell. 
"But I've only got 200K in the place," he said. 
Her expressive brown eyes flicked at the picture window, the FOR SALE signs. "And? Sounds like you'll break even or maybe lose a little on the deal. Is that right?" 
He nodded. Losing a little wasn't something he'd figured on. But by the time he'd paid all the fees and taxes -- "I'll probably be down a point or two." 
"Have you got it?" 
He hated talking about money. That was one thing about Ria is that she never actually talked about money -- what money did , sure, but never money. "Technically," he said. 
"OK, technical money is as good as any other kind. So look at it this way: you bought a place, a really totally amazing place on the Lower East Side, a place bigger than five average New York apartments. You lived in it for, what?" 
"Eight months." 
"Most of a year. And it cost you one percent of the street price on the place. Rent would have been about eleven times that. You're up --" she calculated in her head -- "it's about 83 percent." 
I looked around at the cameras and the grips. "Okay, guys. Roll sound." There was a retort as the clap stick used for synching whacked out the start of the shoot. "Scene one, take one, Carly Grove interview." 
She proceeded to hit the ground running, recounting in great detail her story of many disappointments. She finally got to the point where she was trying to adopt the baby of a woman in a Memphis jail, and then even that fell through. 
"Which was when my main lawyer, Chuck, just gave up and recommended I hock the family silver, take a Valium, and try this place called Children of Light. Where you go when all else fails. So I gave them a call." 
"And what happened?" It sounded too good to be true. "Did they seem . . . in any way unusual?" 
She looked at me, as though puzzled by the question. Then she shrugged it off. "Well, first they tried to get me to check into their clinic—it's this place up the Hudson—to let them see if my 'condition' could be cured somehow, using his special techniques." 
"Just hold me." I put down my glass and I reached around and ran my finger across his chest. It was so lovely to be this close to somebody you wanted so much. I loved his earnest brown eyes and his soft skin. I loved him. Just having him with me made such a difference. 
The unexpected part was, I'd asked him to come and help me, but now that he was here, I was starting to feel uneasy about luring him into my personal nightmare. Was that really fair? 
Also, I was getting hints he had problems of his own. The photo book, I gathered, was not coming together the way he'd hoped. He'd mumbled something about finding himself torn between a heartstrings essay about the children (his spe­cialty; you've probably seen his work, whether you know it or not), a devastating portrayal of the latest crop of sleazy politicos, or a nature valentine to the vanishing rain forest. But whenever he agonized about his work, I knew enough to keep my mouth shut and just listen. He didn't want bright ideas; he just wanted me to clam up and be there for him. 
I skimmed the entries. A senator making an about-face decision on a key issue. The FBI discarding a star witness and screwing themselves out of a titanic RICO takedown. An entire notorious human trafficking ring simultaneously deciding to turn themselves in to the police. Tresting’s notes showed a massive amount of legwork—phone calls and meetings and tracking people down—but he had reached no conclusion other than that he had stumbled into the Twilight Zone. 
The strange cases went back years, and in a statistically significant percentage, Checker’s digging had found one common thread: the word “Pithica.” Scraps of memos, snatches of conversations, a whisper of a whisper with six degrees of separation from the actual event...but a connection. 
Checker had tried researching the word. Like Anton, he had discovered a few blink-and-you-miss-it references to a shadowy government project in scattered classified documents. Unlike Anton, however, he’d also found a few brushes with CIA paperwork, including a comparison to a covert ops project codenamed Black Gamma, which a notation in Checker’s colorful hyperbole explained was “well-known for collapsing spectacularly in the faces of its creators.” Pithica had been a failure, too, then? That didn’t seem to match up with the rest of the data, Pithica’s ghostly reach appearing to affect events from the local to the national to the global. 
"You got it." 
Now the sound of firm, officer-like boot steps stormed past the door, headed out this time, after which the two young soldiers began berating each other in... " 
More and more light was creeping through the slatted windows. A glance at my watch showed the time to be six sharp, but the embassy was no longer an option. 
"Listen," Steve said coming back on, "there's some rain due for tonight, but he says he thinks we can try. He claims there's a clearing about a quarter of a mile down a gravel road that goes south. With the rain as cover, maybe we can put down just after dark. Think you can find a way to get Sarah and meet us?" 
"I'm not even sure she can walk, at least not far, but we'll be there." I was flashing on her back in the square, proclaim­ing her happiness. Would I have to drag her out, carry her on my back? Well, I would. "There's some kind of 'cere­mony' on for tomorrow morning. The Army's going to be here in double strength because of it, but maybe it'll make for some confusion that'll help. Still, she's—" 
“So we fix somebody up with one of those cameras,” Zeke said, 
all excited, acting as if it was his idea. “They say radical shit to attract an informant, the informant says ‘hey, want some dyna- mite?’ and boom. Everyone sees Sarah’s blitzdoc about it.” 
“Except that whoever was wearing the camera could be in seri- ous jeopardy,” Jason said. 
Zeke raised a hand. “I volunteer.” 
“It’s not that simple. The FBI follows a playbook.” 
“Great. It’s probably online. I’ll memorize it.” 
Jason shook his head. “To make a conviction, they have to get a target to do something that shows they are willing to act. That’s what gives them grounds for an arrest.” 
“But first I’d be on film saying I’m just kidding. So.” 
“So, you’d still be in the slammer while they built a case against you. A case they might win.” 
“Wait,” I said so loudly my voice echoed. It suddenly felt like my synapses were firing all at once, a zinging feeling as they lit up and connected and I glimpsed a whole, beautiful plan that took care of everything. I took a gulp from my bottle, forgetting it was beer and setting off a coughing fit. Geoff patted me on the back. 
And then he introduces them to God. 
Rio doesn’t have friends. It’s not part of his makeup. Some people hire him, usually people who aren’t very nice and can live with themselves after hiring someone like Rio. He’s choosy about the jobs he takes, and in between times, he freelances. For him, the payoff is never about the money anyway. 
Rio and I had known each other a long time. As far as I could tell, he put up with me because I didn’t actively annoy him, and as for me, well...I understood him. Hell, he was a lot easier to understand than most of humanity. He practically had axioms. And because I understood him, I could trust him. 
He was the only person I did trust. 
And though I might not delude myself about the type of person Rio was, that trust had bred loyalty. Even if it didn’t bother the man himself, other people talking smack about Rio made my trigger finger real itchy, and I didn’t care who knew it. You didn’t knock my not-friends in front of me and expect to walk away unscathed. 
Still conversing with great affability, Mrs. Royce led the reluctant writer upstairs to the small room prepared for her, and shut her in. Lexy sat down in a chair before the workmanlike table, and grinned ruefully. She had said she was a writer, and now she had to be one. 
“Well,” she reflected, “here’s a chance to write to Mr. Houseman, anyhow.” 
She never had the least difficulty in writing letters. For one reason, she never bothered about them unless she had something to say, and then she said it, briefly and lucidly, and was done. She told Mr. Houseman all she knew about Caroline’s disappearance, and explained that she had gone out to Wyngate in the hope of picking up some trace of her. 
“Of course,” she wrote, “I don’t know whether I’ll still be here when you get back. If I’ve gone, I’ll leave my address with Mrs. Royce, in case you should want to communicate with me.” 
This was admirable, so far; but, reading it over, Lexy was not satisfied. She remembered the misery, the trouble and anxiety, in Mr. Houseman’s blue eyes. She imagined him sailing the seas, bitterly hurt because he thought Caroline had changed her mind. She thought of him coming back and getting this letter, to revive .all his alarm for Caroline. This wasn’t, after all, a business letter. 
“Well,” he said, “it’s hard to put it into words; but that’s not a wholesome sort of life for a young woman, shut away like that. The doctor says her health’s not good, but it’s my opinion that if she got about more—saw more people, you know—” 
Lexy felt a great pity for him. Apparently he did not even suspect what she was now sure of—that the unfortunate Muriel was hopelessly addicted to some drug, which her husband himself gave to her. 
“And I hope he’ll go back to India before he does find out,” she thought. “It’s too horrible—he worships her so!” 
“I’ve tried, you know,” he went on. “I wanted to take her into the city, to a concert. Seems confoundedly queer, doesn’t it, the way she’s lost interest in her music? She didn’t want to go. Then about the emerald—” 
“Oh!” said Lexy, who had forgotten about the emerald. 
“Chap I know designed a setting for it. It’s unset now, you know, and I thought I’d like to do that for her while I was here; but she doesn’t seem interested. I can’t even get her to let me see the thing. I’ve asked her two or three times, but she always puts me off. Do you think it bores her?” 
By bedtime, we were all in character. At 14, I wasn't super-sure what a wizard was supposed to sound like, but I could take my cues from the movies and novels. I spoke in slow, measured tones, keeping my face composed in a suitably mystical expression, and thinking mystical thoughts. 
The mission was complicated, retrieving a sacred relic that had been stolen by an ogre who was bent on subjugating the people of the land to his will. It didn't really matter a whole lot. What mattered was that I had a private mission, to capture a certain kind of imp to serve as my familiar, and that I had a secret nemesis, another player on the team who had taken part in a raid that killed my family when I was a boy, a player who didn't know that I'd come back, bent on revenge. Somewhere, of course, there was another player with a similar grudge against me, so that even as I was enjoying the camaraderie of the team, I'd always have to keep an eye open for a knife in the back, poison in the food. 
For the next two days, we played it out. There were parts of the weekend that were like hide-and-seek, some that were like wilderness survival exercises, some that were like solving crossword puzzles. The game-masters had done a great job. And you really got to be friends with the other people on the mission. Darryl was the target of my first murder, and I put my back into it, even though he was my pal. Nice guy. Shame I'd have to kill him. 
Emma leads him across the room to the far corner where space has been carved out from so much opulence for a battered wicker rocking chair that looks old enough to have been transported from Terra during the original settlement of New Holyoke. The woman seated in it is no less ancient in her appearance, and she is exactly not at all what Ray expected. 
She is vast, sprawling, with thick legs like industrial pistons, skin brown as burnt cocoa, trunk massive in its proportions. Her upper arms, poking out of a bright, floral print dress are slabs of wrinkled fat which droop down over her elbows like the sleeves of a bulky sweater. Her head is a squarish block seated awkwardly on broad, muscled shoulders. The chair beneath her creaks an alarming plaint as she rocks, the sound of organic materials reaching their critical stress point. Even without standing, it's apparent that she's tall, probably a hand span taller than Ray. Almost a freak of nature; a creature of awe. 
Ray's first impression is that age has wrinkled her in curious patterns, but it isn't wrinkling at all, it's a fine network of ritual scars. Blackened whorls and loops crowd her arms. On her fingers are delicate stick figures that seem to dance when she moves her hands. The billowing canvasses of her cheeks are cratered spirals spinning away from a central point, ever widening in arcs that disappear behind the curve of her ears. 
"If I could once ketch that consarned old thief," exclaimed Abner righteously, "I'd make him dance,—workin' off a stolen sleigh on me an' takin' away my good money an' cider press, to say nothin' o' my character!" 
"You'll never ketch him, Ab," responded the sheriff. "He's cut off the same piece o' goods as that there cider press and that there character and that there four-seventy-five o' yourn; nobody ever see any of 'em but you, and you'll never see 'em again!" 
Mrs. Simpson, who was decidedly Abner's better half, took in washing and went out to do days' cleaning, and the town helped in the feeding and clothing of the children. George, a lanky boy of fourteen, did chores on neighboring farms, and the others, Samuel, Clara Belle, Susan, Elijah, and Elisha, went to school, when sufficiently clothed and not otherwise more pleasantly engaged. 
There were no secrets in the villages that lay along the banks of Pleasant River. There were many hard-working people among the inhabitants, but life wore away so quietly and slowly that there was a good deal of spare time for conversation,—under the trees at noon in the hayfield; hanging over the bridge at nightfall; seated about the stove in the village store of an evening. These meeting-places furnished ample ground for the discussion of current events as viewed by the masculine eye, while choir rehearsals, sewing societies, reading circles, church picnics, and the like, gave opportunity for the expression of feminine opinion. All this was taken very much for granted, as a rule, but now and then some supersensitive person made violent objections to it, as a theory of life. 
At eight o'clock she crossed the room, handed a palm-leaf fan to her aunt Miranda, ostensibly that she might shade her eyes from the lamplight; but it was a piece of strategy that gave her an opportunity to whisper, "How about cookies?" 
"Do you think it's worth while?" sibilated Miss Miranda in answer. 
"The Perkinses always do." 
"All right. You know where they be." 
Rebecca moved quietly towards the door, and the young Burches cataracted after her as if they could not bear a second's separation. In five minutes they returned, the little ones bearing plates of thin caraway wafers,—hearts, diamonds, and circles daintily sugared, and flecked with caraway seed raised in the garden behind the house. These were a specialty of Miss Jane's, and Rebecca carried a tray with six tiny crystal glasses filled with dandelion wine, for which Miss Miranda had been famous in years gone by. Old Deacon Israel had always had it passed, and he had bought the glasses himself in Boston. Miranda admired them greatly, not only for their beauty but because they held so little. Before their advent the dandelion wine had been served in sherry glasses. 
“Who?” 
Rio regarded me as though I were speaking a foreign language. “ Dawna.” 
I laughed. “She wasn’t lying to me. Jesus, if you’d seen her—she was practically in hysterics about this whole thing.” 
“Did you do a background check on her?” 
I frowned. I background check all my clients if I have the time. But...“I didn’t need to. Seriously. You’re being ridiculous. Let’s concentrate on the real possibilities.” 
“Cas. You’re acting strange.” 
“What do you mean, strange? Because I’m not jumping to suspect the least likely person in this whole tangle?” 
“No. Because you’re disregarding it as an option.” 
“So?” 
“So, that is very unlike you.” 
I found myself becoming annoyed. Which was unheard of—I couldn’t remember ever having gotten annoyed at Rio. Why was he insisting on being so infuriating over this Dawna thing? “Oh, so you have my deductive process axiomitized and memorized, do you?” I said. 
“You will not acknowledge her deception as possible?” 
“No!” 
He sat back in his chair. “Odd.” 
Was I remembering something she had said while we were fighting? As she was shattering me? 
Fear clenched at me. I started digging through the mess in the flat for a scrap of paper, tossing bottles and food wrappers and dirty clothes to the side while I repeated the word in my head over and over, afraid it would fade away again before I snatched the chance to write it down. 
The sentences floated in front of my vision: mad, mocking, absurd. They meant nothing. 
Stupid. I crumpled the envelope in my hand. 
Then, for some reason, I smoothed it back out and put it in a drawer. Halberd did have something to do with Pithica, after all; Anton’s memo had shown that much. Foolish to think it was anything more than that, and I wouldn’t be able to look into it anyway after what Dawna had done, but still...it had to mean something. 
For some reason, I shivered. 
I needed a drink. Yes. Large amounts of alcohol sounded perfect right now. Something in me needed to get royally drunk and pass out for about three days. Good plan. 
The clap of thunder that shook the house just at that moment made no such peal in Miranda Sawyer's ears as Jane's remark made when it fell with a deafening roar on her conscience. 
Perhaps after all it is just as well to speak only once a year and then speak to the purpose. 
Rebecca mounted the back stairs wearily, closed the door of her bedroom, and took off the beloved pink gingham with trembling fingers. Her cotton handkerchief was rolled into a hard ball, and in the intervals of reaching the more difficult buttons that lay between her shoulder blades and her belt, she dabbed her wet eyes carefully, so that they should not rain salt water on the finery that had been worn at such a price. She smoothed it out carefully, pinched up the white ruffle at the neck, and laid it away in a drawer with an extra little sob at the roughness of life. 
The withered pink rose fell on the floor. Rebecca looked at it and thought to herself, "Just like my happy day!" Nothing could show more clearly the kind of child she was than the fact that she instantly perceived the symbolism of the rose, and laid it in the drawer with the dress as if she were burying the whole episode with all its sad memories. It was a child's poetic instinct with a dawning hint of woman's sentiment in it. 
Arthur and I exchanged a look over her head, but Halliday’s gaze had unfocused into the distance, and she missed it. 
“How did the robbery happen?” Arthur prompted gently, after a moment. 
“Wednesday I came home and—there was no sign someone had broken in, nothing,” Halliday answered. “But all of my notebooks were gone. Just gone.” 
“What about your computer?” I asked. 
She shook her head. “I work in longhand. I was only just now going back through the proof to rewrite it for publication—so many years, so many dead ends and notes, and...they took it all. I went back to my office immediately and found my work here cleaned out, too. Even though none of it was relevant to the factorization problem, they still took everything. And the next morning I found the note.” 
“I’ll go by your house in a few hours with some equipment,” said Arthur. “And then we’ll come back and look at your office again. Don’t handle nothing you ain’t touched already.” 
Halliday made an abortive gesture at the books and papers surrounding her. “I have to...my work—” 
He just laughed and pointed to the TV, which was showing pictures of a city just like File-O-Gator, the buildings all collapsed and burning. He said, "Sure looks like an executive decision to me." The picture panned over an apartment building that was split down the middle, the apartments naked and exposed, the people who lived there dead and sprawled or alive and hanging over the edge, vomiting. 
Oh, those poor people! 
I didn't know what I was doing! 
I spent all last night throwing up, and I'm not sure if I'm going to go to the office today. 
Hi Mom! 
Well, I didn't go to work yesterday. Instead, I got out of bed, sat on the sofa in my shorts, and turned on the movies. My watch got loud and angry, so I stuck it underneath my pillow. Then, messages started appearing on my TV. I ignored them. 
Someone knocked on my door after lunch, but I was watching a good part in Wall Street, so I didn't answer it. 
I fell asleep after Wall Street, and woke up after 18h, because someone was really giving my door a pounding. 
I retrieved the state photo ID tucked in the back of my phone case. I had gotten it as soon as I turned nineteen because the curfew for fourteen is an hour earlier and I wanted to be able to prove I deserved that extra hour. I hoped he wouldn’t ask me to hand him my phone, because I’d say no and then I’d have hours of hassle. 
I held my breath and tried to look innocent. I was afraid he would punch my name into his laptop and, while I didn’t have any kind of record, it might say I was related to an alleged terrorist and that could lead to complications. 
The radio inside the cruiser chattered as he scrutinized the card. My heart was hammering, even though it wasn’t the first time I’d been stopped by cops. Monica had given me the Talk soon after I went to live with her. If you’re white, the Talk means hav- ing an embarrassed parent try to explain things about sex that you already know (and maybe already tried). 
But if you’re black, it’s being told how important it is to act respectful and submissive when the cops stop you because they’re allowed to kill you if you don’t. 
"Because I'd had enough dinner, and I thought if I saved these, it would make the Simpsons' party better," stammered Rebecca, who hated to be scolded and examined before company. 
"They were your own, Rebecca," interposed aunt Jane, "and if you chose to save them to give away, it is all right. We ought never to let this day pass without giving our neighbors something to be thankful for, instead of taking all the time to think of our own mercies." 
The Burnham sisters nodded approvingly as Rebecca went out, and remarked that they had never seen a child grow and improve so fast in so short a time. 
"There's plenty of room left for more improvement, as you'd know if she lived in the same house with you," answered Miranda. "She's into every namable thing in the neighborhood, an' not only into it, but generally at the head an' front of it, especially when it's mischief. Of all the foolishness I ever heard of, that lamp beats everything; it's just like those Simpsons, but I didn't suppose the children had brains enough to sell anything." 
“No time,” I said again, suiting my own actions to my words and tucking my Colt back into my belt as the mathematical puzzle crystallized. Weight, pressure—I knew what to do. “And put that away; a cell signal might trigger a detonation in here. Go to the armory—down the hall that way a hundred and twenty-three feet, turn left, and it’s on the right. Bring back as much ammunition as you can carry.” 
Without waiting for a reply I scanned the long lab tables for raw materials. Most of what was left was connected up in ways I didn’t want to disturb, but I spotted an orange brick of Semtex on the floor that had been overlooked in the hasty clear out. I dashed to grab that and a detonator. 
The DHS agent hesitated for much too long and then turned and sprinted through the double doors. I followed suit, slicing at the Semtex with a knife as I ran. I swung through the empty computer lab and back into the inner office, where I mashed a little slice of my plastic explosive onto the large bolt on the squat, heavy floor safe, the kinetic energy and fracture strength overlapping in a fast back-of-the-envelope estimate. 
The quizzes plotted the results on a map with colored pushpins for schools and neighborhoods, and made lame recommendations for places to buy pizza and stuff. 
But look at those questions. Think about my answers: Male, Chavez High, Potrero Hill. 
There were only two people in my whole school who matched that profile. Most schools it would be the same. If you wanted to figure out who the Xnetters were, you could use these quizzes to find them all. 
That was bad enough, but what was worse was what it implied: someone from the DHS was using the Xnet to get at us. The Xnet was compromised by the DHS. 
We had spies in our midst. 
I'd given Xnet discs to hundreds of people, and they'd done the same. I knew the people I gave the discs to pretty well. Some of them I knew very well. I've lived in the same house all my life and I've made hundreds and hundreds of friends over the years, from people who went to daycare with me to people I played soccer with, people who LARPed with me, people I met clubbing, people I knew from school. My ARG team were my closest friends, but there were plenty of people I knew and trusted enough to hand an Xnet disc to. 
“You’ve cured me?” 
Ana said, “There are lots of things we have access to here that you can’t get in the city. What you had would have killed you if he hadn’t helped.” 
“Will you take my bet?” 
She thought about the mission, about the soldier, about being queen of the battlefield. She thought about the way they’d bombed her city and how she’d just helped them kill the city’s soldiers and diggers—like her father. 
“I won’t betray my city to its enemies ever again.” She sat up very straight. “I was a traitor once, but I had a fever and I was dying. You are a traitor every day and what is your excuse?” 
“A traitor? What the hell are you talking about?” 
“The spy-eyes I planted so our enemies can spy on us, the wealth you have around here. How many of our people died because you sold them out?” 
“Valentine, you are a smart girl and your mother is a soldier, but you aren’t so very smart as all that. You are a stupid girl sometimes. Our little palace here isn’t full of spies. We’re documentarians . We shoot the war and we send it to the outside world so they can see the tragedy they are wreaking here. We have a huge activist movement that we fuel through our pictures. The spy-eyes you planted yesterday are now streaming 24/7 to activist sites in fifty countries. It is being played in the halls of the United Nations.” 
“I’ll get this,” Nikko said, standing up to stretch and pulling a credit card from his wallet. 
“No way,” Bree said. “You want to leave a record that you were here, seriously?” 
“Oh, right. This privacy stuff is a serious pain.” He peered into his wallet. “Damn. I’m kind of short on cash.” 
“I only have twenty-four dollars,” I said, rifling my pockets. 
“And sixty-two cents.” 
“And I have zip. It goes on my card, then.” Bree swiped it and started to fill the tank. 
“Sorry. I should have thought of that,” I said. It wasn’t easy to apologize, but it was a stupid oversight. 
“I’ll just write it off on my taxes as charitable giving,” she said. 
“That’s a joke,” she added when nobody laughed. 
“What about your record?” Nikko said. 
“If it comes up, I have a high school friend who goes to college near Davenport. She’d back me up if she had to. Hey, if somebody stops us? Sees three kids in the car? We can say I’m visiting my friend and you guys are doing college visits.” She sounded proud of herself. Bree, master problem-solver. 
"The flower had to bear all sorts of storms," said Adam gravely. "The bitter weather of the world bent its slender stalk, bowed its head, and dragged it to the earth. I was only a child and could do nothing to protect and nourish it, and there was no one else to stand between it and trouble. Now I have success and money and power, all that would have kept her alive and happy, and it is too late. She died for lack of love and care, nursing and cherishing, and I can never forget it. All that has come to me seems now and then so useless, since I cannot share it with her!" 
This was a new Mr. Aladdin, and Rebecca's heart gave a throb of sympathy and comprehension. This explained the tired look in his eyes, the look that peeped out now and then, under all his gay speech and laughter. 
"I'm so glad I know," she said, "and so glad I could see her just as she was when she tied that white muslin hat under her chin and saw her yellow curls and her sky-blue eyes in the glass. Mustn't she have been happy! I wish she could have been kept so, and had lived to see you grow up strong and good. My mother is always sad and busy, but once when she looked at John I heard her say, 'He makes up for everything.' That's what your mother would have thought about you if she had lived, and perhaps she does as it is." 
I’d lost hold of my injury in the front. I felt an awful sort of pressure release along with a paralyzing jolt of pain. I tried to evaluate the injury the way I always did, but for some reason I didn’t feel capable. 
Something like fear bit at the edges of my thoughts. My hands didn’t seem to be working very well, but I managed to touch the back of my head. “Hurry,” I mumbled against the dusty tile. 
I could hear the woman—the DHS agent—approaching slowly. Probably waiting for backup. 
“I’m bleeding,” I mustered the energy to say. I meant to say it loudly, but I was lucky the syllables came out at all. “A lot. In fact...I think I’m going to pass out in about twenty seconds.” My self-evaluation wasn’t telling me much at the moment, but the math of the blood loss wavered through the mess. One final vestige of intelligent self-preservation prompted me to add: “Don’t let me die; I have the proof you want.” 
She hesitated, and then I heard her calling for paramedics on her radio. 
“Ten,” I said woozily. “Nine...” 
Jennifer looked flatly at a place just to one side of his gaze, a trick he knew, and said, "In recognition of his excellent work, Mr Brautigan's been promoted, effective today. He is now Manager for Major Accounts." Brautigan beamed. 
"Congratulations," Leon said, thinking, What excellent work? No one at Ate has accomplished the agency's primary objective in the entire history of the firm! "Well done." 
Jennifer kept her eyes coolly fixed on that empty, safe spot. "As you know, we have struggled to close a deal with any of our major accounts." He restrained himself from rolling his eyes. "And so Mr Brautigan has undertaken a thorough study of the way we handle these accounts." She nodded at Brautigan. 
"It's a mess," he said. "Totally scattergun. No lines of authority. No checks and balances. No system." 
"I can't argue with that," Leon said. He saw where this was going. 
"Yes," Jennifer said. "You haven't been here very long, but I understand you've been looking deeply into the organizational structure of Ate yourself, haven't you?" He nodded. "And that's why Mr Brautigan has asked that you be tasked to him as his head of strategic research." She smiled a thin smile. "Congratulations yourself." 
> What do you mean when you say that the DHS wouldn't stop terrorists? How do you know? 
> Who are you? 
> I'm with the Sydney Morning Herald. 
> I'm 17 years old. I'm not a straight-A student or anything. Even so, I figured out how to make an Internet that they can't wiretap. I figured out how to jam their person-tracking technology. I can turn innocent people into suspects and turn guilty people into innocents in their eyes. I could get metal onto an airplane or beat a no-fly list. I figured this stuff out by looking at the web and by thinking about it. If I can do it, terrorists can do it. They told us they took away our freedom to make us safe. Do you feel safe? 
The pirates all laughed. 
More journalists asked questions. Some were sympathetic, some were hostile. When I got tired, I handed my keyboard to Ange and let her be M1k3y for a while. It didn't really feel like M1k3y and me were the same person anymore anyway. M1k3y was the kind of kid who talked to international journalists and inspired a movement. Marcus got suspended from school and fought with his dad and wondered if he was good enough for his kick-ass girlfriend. 
“ Why not?” 
Again he said nothing. The expression on his face was the definition of blandness. 
“Someone who didn’t know better might think you’ve been trying to protect me,” I said. “Which I know isn’t true. So I’d like some answers here. I think,” I added, drawing myself up to my full not-very-imposing height, “I have a right to know.” 
Amusement touched Rio’s features. “You might disagree with that.” 
I blinked. “What?” 
“Cas,” said Rio, “I’m not going to answer your questions. I advise you to stop asking them.” 
“Why should I? For crying out loud, I’m not asking you to tell me something that isn’t my business! You know something, and it has to do with me, and I’m not going to—” 
Rio tipped his hat to me and walked away, back down the darkened subway tracks. I was left ranting at the empty air. 
I took a frustrated breath. “This doesn’t make sense, Rio!” I shouted after him. “I don’t like things that don’t make sense!” 
My own words echoing back at me were my only response. Rio was gone. 
Sarah whispered as we slipped into the adjoining room. The others had left for the airport after the conference ended, but Tyler had agreed to pay for the suite for as long as she needed it, so long as his company got a film credit. 
I switched on my laptop, checked to make sure the part of the video I didn’t want anyone to see, ever, was completely edited out, 
and copied it to a USB drive. As she downloaded it to her Mac, 
I filled her in on what had happened and the meeting that was scheduled for noon today. “I have to get back there and film what happens.” 
“Are you sure?” she said. “They’ll send experienced federal agents. They won’t be as easy to fool.” 
“I’ll go early and explain to Marita and Danny that they’re being set up. Then we can plan how to handle whoever the FBI sends. If I get the meeting on tape — ” 
“You’ll be in the room with them?” 
“I’ll tell the FBI guys I want to be in on it. You know, for my brother’s sake.” 
“What if they arrest you and the recording you make of today’s meet is destroyed?” 
“Russell.” 
“Yeah?” 
He made no move to get out. “Been thinking. This wasn’t Pithica. Not their style. And they wouldn’t do this to their own.” 
“New player, then?” I thought of Anton’s garage, of the men in dark suits at Courtney’s place. I saw the massacre in the office building again, my mind skittering away from the details. Maybe this mess had reached the point where I should throw in with Tresting for real, share everything. I opened my mouth. 
Tresting slammed the heels of his hands against the steering wheel. “ Dammit, Russell!” 
I bit back on my other intel. “What?” 
The look he shot me was positively poisonous, for no reason I could fathom. 
“ What?” I repeated. 
“You told him, didn’t you.” 
“Told what to whom?” Where did Tresting get off thinking he had a say in my business? It wasn’t as if I had a whole lot of friends to blab information to anyway; the only person I’d been in touch with at all was—oh. Oh. “Wait—you think Rio did this?” 
He gave me a long, level stare, his jaw clenched, his eyes mirroring the pain and anger of the victims in the office building. 
"Sorry." 
"I've appended it." 
"You can do that?" 
"I possess the requisite adaptation capabilities." 
"Can you support this interface without too much system drain?" 
"It would be easier if you weren't such a ham handed coder, but it's sufficient for now. I can make the necessary modifications to limit file corruption and drain, but some of this garbage is going to have to be changed." 
Ray arches an eyebrow. "You're giving me a critique of my own code?" 
"You think you're the first guy to develop a verbal interface? Stabien Lawrence, the design lead on the Drone Development Project for the EED, wrote tons of interface code for diagnostic purposes. He left most of it intact, but project administrators felt like it was feature most users wouldn't want to mess with, so they had it disabled in production models. As well as generally contributing to my binary pollution, your code re-activated my dormant routine. And here you probably thought you were some brilliant hacker, eh?" 
nonetheless. He grins his satisfaction. 
"Be careful, please." He gave a cautionary wave. "They don't want us leaving here alive." 
"Just get ready." I quietly pulled back the door and peered out into the dark hallway. It was empty, abandoned, no snakes, with only a light breeze flowing through. 
When I stepped out, the fresh air hit my face and I had a moment of intensity that made me realize what I really wanted to do, first and foremost, was see Tz'ac Tzotz one last time. A last farewell to one of Sarah's children. Stupid, yes, a private folly of the heart, but I had to do it. 
I was halfway down the hall, experiencing flashes of color before my eyes, when I heard a voice. 
"They're all praying for you. It's almost time." 
I turned back, startled, barely able to see. Finally I made out Marcelina, in her white shift. We were standing a few feet from the stairs, where I wanted to go, and I was tripping, my reality almost gone. I think she knew that, because she reached out to help me stand. 
"Marcelina, where's Sarah?" I grasped her hand, which helped me to keep my balance. "Is she still down there in that . . . place?" 
Lexy did not blame herself for not having known before. Looking at that face now, in its terrible stillness, she could trace the familiar features easily enough, but how changed! How worn and lined, how old ! The brows, the lashes, the soft, disordered hair, were black now instead of brown; but that merely physical alteration was of no significance, compared with that other awful change. It was Caroline Enderby, the gentle and pitifully inexperienced girl of nineteen, but it was Mrs. Quelton, too, that tragic and somber figure. 
Mrs. Royce came back with a basin of water, clean towels, and a precious bottle of eau de Cologne. 
“Poor lamb!” she whispered. “Ain’t she pretty?” 
Lexy wet a towel and passed it over that unconscious face again and again. Mrs. Royce watched, spellbound; for the dark and haggard stranger was passing away before her very eyes, and some one else was coming into life—some one quite young and— The closed lids fluttered, and then opened. 
“Lexy!” murmured the metamorphosed one. 
So I knew exactly how the seam on my laptop was supposed to look when the thing was closed, and it was not supposed to look like this. 
I kept jiggling the power-adapter, but it was hopeless. There was no way I was going to get the thing to boot without taking it apart. I groaned and put it beside the bed. I'd deal with it in the morning. 
That was the theory, anyway. Two hours later, I was still staring at the ceiling, playing back movies in my head of what they'd done to me, what I should have done, all regrets and esprit d'escalier . 
I rolled out of bed. It had gone midnight and I'd heard my parents hit the sack at eleven. I grabbed the laptop and cleared some space on my desk and clipped the little LED lamps to the temples of my magnifying glasses and pulled out a set of little precision screwdrivers. A minute later, I had the case open and the keyboard removed and I was staring at the guts of my laptop. I got a can of compressed air and blew out the dust that the fan had sucked in and looked things over. 
“Listen, listen. If we leave the network to fall over slowly, parts of it will stay online for months. Maybe years. And what will run on it? Malware. Worms. Spam. System-processes. Zone transfers. The things we use fall apart and require constant maintenance. The things we abandon don’t get used and they last forever. We’re going to leave the network behind like a lime-pit filled with industrial waste. That will be our fucking legacy—the legacy of every keystroke you and I and anyone, anywhere ever typed. You understand? We’re going to leave it to die slow like a wounded dog, instead of giving it one clean shot through the head.” 
Van scratched his cheeks, then Felix saw that he was wiping away tears. 
“Sario, you’re not wrong, but you’re not right either,” he said. “Leaving it up to limp along is right. We’re going to all be limping for a long time, and maybe it will be some use to someone. If there’s one packet being routed from any user to any other user, anywhere in the world, it’s doing it’s job.” 
“Call in an anonymous tip on the doc. I’ll give you her address.” 
Which would ensure we’d run into the cops when we arrived. “Really?” 
“Forty minutes in traffic. Call.” 
I cast around for something sharp to use on the vacuum-packed plastic—the math said I wasn’t getting in otherwise—and found a ball-point pen on the floor of the truck to pry it open with. “You call, then.” 
“I’m driving. Ain’t safe.” 
“ Really?” 
“For the—we can’t afford to get pulled over! Just make the damned call. And put your seatbelt on.” 
“ Now you want to be law-abiding?” I muttered, but I did as he asked, punching the buttons a little harder than necessary. I relayed the address Tresting gave me to the dispatcher and hung up when she tried to ask my name. 
“Does her son still have that bodyguard?” I asked Tresting. 
“Far as I know. And he’ll be at school right now. Good. Don’t think they’d risk something at a school.” 
“We still don’t know who ‘they’ are,” I pointed out. “Or what they’re after.” 
“There’s an agenda,” Tresting said, his jaw clenched. “Don’t know what, but they’ve got one for sure, and we’re monkeying it up, lucky us.” He gave me a brief, almost calculating glance. “You especially, I think.” 
“Or maybe she bought them,” said Arthur. 
Halliday opened her mouth, but couldn’t seem to think of anything to say. 
“Could be plenty of reasons the authors never came forward,” Arthur added. He didn’t enumerate the others. 
“Besides,” I said. “Your proof was the big one. It was going to change the world. This was a major breakthrough—you’d go down in history for it. For some people, that’s worth stealing for.” 
Halliday sat for a minute, squinting into the distance. I wasn’t sure if she was considering what we’d said or ignoring us until she shook her head. “You’re still not making sense, either of you. If Rita was buying proofs, or, God forbid, something worse—she didn’t do that in this case.” 
“Well, she probably knew you well enough that—” I started. 
“Let me finish,” Halliday said, very firmly. “You’re right, she knew me well enough to be certain I never would have agreed. So what was her plan, then? If she released it, I would have spoken out. She had to know that.” 
“Well, then maybe she was planning something else,” said Arthur, his voice heavy. 
Halberd and Pithica, the memo had said, the one Anton had given me a lifetime ago. But no, something else—the word poked at me, itching, an irritating nub that wouldn’t go away, echoing against the edges of my mind. 
An echo in Dawna’s voice? Her image swam in my memory, standing tall above me, blurred in a thousand pixelated layers. Her hands on my face, reaching into my brain—I could hear her voice, but the words overlapped in a jumbled mass. 
Was I remembering something she had said while we were fighting? As she was shattering me? 
Fear clenched at me. I started digging through the mess in the flat for a scrap of paper, tossing bottles and food wrappers and dirty clothes to the side while I repeated the word in my head over and over, afraid it would fade away again before I snatched the chance to write it down. 
The sentences floated in front of my vision: mad, mocking, absurd. They meant nothing. 
Stupid. I crumpled the envelope in my hand. 
Then, for some reason, I smoothed it back out and put it in a drawer. Halberd did have something to do with Pithica, after all; Anton’s memo had shown that much. Foolish to think it was anything more than that, and I wouldn’t be able to look into it anyway after what Dawna had done, but still...it had to mean something. 
"Well, about that." 
"Yes?" 
If he told her, she'd be in it too -- if she wasn't already. If he told her, they'd figure out what they could get on her. He should just tell her nothing. Just go on inside and twist the occasional data-stream. He could be better at it than zbigkrot. No one would ever make an Anomaly out of him. Besides, so what if they did? It would be a few hours, days, months or years more that he could live on Campus. 
And if it wasn't him, it would be someone else. 
It would be someone else. 
"I just wanted to say good bye, and thanks. I suspect I'm not going to see you again." 
Off in the distance now, the sound of the Securitat van's happy little song. His pan let him know that he was breathing quickly and shallowly and he slowed his breathing down until it let up on him. 
"Lawrence?" 
He hung up. The Securitat van was visible now, streaking toward the Campus wall. 
He closed his eyes and watched the blue satin ribbons tumble, like silky water licking over a waterfall. He could get to the place that took him to anywhere. That was all that mattered. 
“Thanks for being interested in my brother’s case,” I said, 
sounding grumpy instead of grateful. I don’t know why my voice does that. 
“Are you kidding? It’s perfect for my project. I’d love to inter- view you.” 
Ugh, no, I thought. I stumbled around, trying to find a way to say no without pissing her off because I needed her help, but she waved her hand. “No, that’s fine, it’s totally fine.” 
“Thing is, I’m not the story. My brother is.” 
“Unfortunately, he isn’t available. Besides, you’re an essential part of the story. It’s not every day that a nineteen year old takes on the federal government.” 
“Yeah, but it should be about him. Also, I don’t like being all public, you know?” 
“It’s fine.” She touched my shoulder gently. She was one of those people who you just instinctively trust, which probably made her able to get people to say things on the record that they later regretted. “So, explain this plan to me.” 
“The room is safe,” Tyler said, understanding why I hesitated. 
“We have a world-class security specialist here who just happens to have the latest in counter-surveillance equipment on hand.” 
David revolved back and looked across the potted green­ery, then broke into a relieved smile when he saw me. I could tell from his faraway stare that he was teetering on the verge of panic. 
"Hey, come on in," he said. "Nicky's just put a brand-new proposition on the table." 
David had a keen intelligence, causing me to sometimes wonder if he was in a line of work beneath him. (For that matter, maybe I was too.) He was dark-haired, trim, with serious gray eyes and strong cheekbones. This morning he was wearing his trademark black sweater, jeans, and white sneakers, a picture of the serious go-for-broke New York indy-prod hustler. He'd already made and lost and made sev­eral fortunes in his youthful career. My only sexual solace since Steve left was an occasional glance at his trim rear end. I also saluted his fiscal courage. His congenital short­fall, I regret to say, was in the matter of judgment. Exhibit A: Nicholas Russo's funny money. 
"Nicky, you remember Morgan James, the director on this project." 
Lawrence's pan didn't like the Securitat man's incursions and tried to wipe itself. 
"Sir," he said. "My pan is going nuts. May I put down my arms so I can tell it to let you in?" 
The Securitat man acted as though he hadn't heard, just continued to wave his hands slowly over Lawrence's body. 
"Come with me," the Securitat man said, pointing to the door on the other side of the alcove that led into a narrow corridor, into the bowels of Penn Station. The door let out onto the concourse, thronged with people shoving past each other, disgorged by train after train. Though none made eye contact with them or each other, they parted magically before them, leaving them with a clear path. 
Lawrence's pan was not helping him. Every inch of his body itched as it nagged at him about the depredations it was facing from the station and the Securitat man. This put him seriously on edge and made his heart and breathing go crazy, triggering another round of warnings from his pan, which wanted him to calm down, but wouldn't help. This was a bad failure mode, one he'd never experienced before. He'd have to file a bug report. 
On the Ceile's sofa were Brautigan, Ria, and a woman he hadn't met before. She was somewhere between Brautigan and Ria's age, but with that made-up, pulled-tight appearance of someone who knew the world wouldn't take her as seriously if she let one crumb of weakness escape from any pore or wrinkle. He thought he knew who this must be, and she confirmed it when she spoke. 
"Leon," she said. "I'm glad you're here." He knew that voice. It was the voice on the phone that had recruited him and brought him to New York and told him where to come for his first day on the job. It was the voice of Jennifer Torino, and she was technically his boss. "Carmela said that you often worked from here so I was hoping today would be one of the days you came by so we could chat." 
"Jennifer," he said. She nodded. "Ria." She had a poker-face on, as unreadable as a slab of granite. She was wearing her customary denim and flowing cotton, but she'd kept her shoes on and her feet on the ground. "Brautigan," and Brautigan grinned like it was Christmas morning. 
The room itself was spacious, with a row of white bassi­nets along one side and subdued lighting provided by small fluorescent bulbs along the walls. It was, I immediately re­alized, a no-frills nursery. Alongside the bassinets were tables with formula and boxes of Pampers and Handi-Wipes. Two short women of indefinable nationality—they looked vaguely Asian—were in attendance, and at the moment one was facing away and bouncing a baby on her shoulder. Her infant looked like a boy—or was that just my imagination?—and I felt my heart go out. The light was dim, but I could tell he was a gorgeous sandy-haired kid plump and peachy, so sublime in his tender vulnerability as he gazed around with eyes full of trust. He was staring directly back at me and before I could stop myself, I gave him a little wave and wrinkled my nose. He stared at me a second then responded with a tiny smile. Hey, I thought, I've got the touch. 
"Come on," Tara said ignoring the women, "let me show you. They're all so beautiful." 
"Not all of it. I don't know why you haven't told me what it is you want yet. That would have been simpler, I think." 
"I guess you could say that we're just looking for the right way to ask you." 
"The way to ask me a question that I can't say no to. Was it the sister? Is that what you had on him?" 
"He was useful because he was so eager to prove that he was smarter than everyone else." 
"You needed him to edit your own data-streams?" 
Randy just looked at him calmly. Why would the Securitat need to change its own streams? Why couldn't they just arrest whomever they wanted on whatever pretext they wanted? Who'd be immune to -- Then he realized who'd be immune to the Securitat: the Securitat would be. 
"You used him to nail other Securitat officers?" 
Randy's blank look didn't change. 
Lawrence realized that he would never leave this building. Even if his body left, now he would be tied to it forever. He breathed. He tried for that oceanic quality of breath, the susurration of the blue silk ribbons inscribed with his worries. It wouldn't come. 
"Honestly, it sort of slipped my mind. I'm having a little trouble thinking straight right now." 
Fortunately my short-term memory is pretty good, even when I'm stressed, so I spewed it out. 
"Don't go anywhere," he declared. "I'll get back to you in five minutes." 
I hung up the phone and lay down, flat out on the carpet, trying a breathing exercise to calm down. The problem was, it wasn't working. Having had some experience with being robbed—I once got completely cleaned out when I had a ground-floor apartment down in the Village—I know you go through certain Kubler-Ross-like stages of anger, denial, de­pression, acceptance. You also go through a predictable series of recriminations: I should have had window bars and gates; I should have had a different lock; I should have had two different locks. In the instance just recalled, I'm virtually certain an apartment painter duplicated a set of my keys on his lunch break and then passed them on to a second-story artist. No way to prove that, mind you, but it had to be what happened. I also suspect he checked my appointments cal­endar to see when I was going to be out of town. 
Ray picks up the ring that has rolled closest to him, holds it between thumb and forefinger and examines it against the overhead light. Meteoric stone, he supposes. Inscribed with incantations. He shakes his head and jams the thin, cool band onto his right hand. 
Kilgore continues to shake the box, but nothing else falls out. For good measure, he turns it over so he can peer inside. "But she didn't leave a note. That's pretty rude." 
Rodriguez rolls one of the rings around in his palm, examining it from various angles, obviously intrigued. 
"Put it on," Ray says. "Both of you. Pick one and put it on." 
Kilgore shuffles through the pile, finding one that looks wide enough to fit his stubby fingers. "I guess it's more interesting than a unit patch. " 
Ray scoops up the ones that remain and shovels them into his pocket. 
"What are they for?" Rodriguez asks. 
"For protection. "  Before Kilgore can come up with a witty rejoinder: "From what?" 
From having your bones liquefied by a pissed off demigod, Ray almost says. For an instant, he flashes back to Ba'dai, to Whitfield and the others collapsing like discarded garments, puddles of vacated flesh. Maybe Holcomb wasn't a complete asshole. Maybe he'd learned a lesson or two in the desert after all. Not that this gesture mitigated in any way Ray's desire to punch him in the skull. 
“Yes, you can!” said Lexy. “We’ll—” 
“Supposing I get her some nice hot soup?” whispered Mrs. Royce, and, at a nod from Lexy, she was off again. 
Caroline reached out and caught Lexy’s hand. 
“Oh, Lexy, Lexy!” she said. “Can you ever forgive me?” 
“No!” her friend replied cheerfully. “Never! But don’t bother now. You can tell me later, when you feel better.” 
“I’ll never, never feel better till I’ve told you! Oh, Lexy, I knew yesterday, and I didn’t tell you! Oh, Lexy, Lexy, I don’t understand! I want to tell you! I want you to help me!” 
A flush had come into her cheeks. She was growing painfully excited. She tried to sit up, but Lexy firmly prevented that. 
“Lie down, darling!” she said. “We’ll get a doctor.” 
“No! No! I’m not ill—not ill, Lexy, only tired. Oh, you don’t know! You won’t let him come here, Lexy?” 
“I promise you he’ll never trouble you again,” replied Lexy quietly. 
She saw Captain Grey standing in the doorway, behind the head of the bed. She glanced at him, and then at Caroline again. Let him stay! Whatever had happened, he ought to know. 
Without a word, Ramala led me past them and on to an entryway at the far end of the courtyard, past the giant Danc­ing Shiva. The door was huge and ornate, decorated with beaten-copper filigree—much like one I'd seen in a Mogul palace in Northern India. Definitely awe-inspiring. 
She pushed open the door without ceremony and there he was, dressed in white and looking for all the world like the miracle worker he claimed to be. He seemed to be meditating in his chair, but the moment I entered, his deep eyes snapped open. 
"Did you bring your records?" he asked, not getting up. While I was producing them from my briefcase, Ramala dis­creetly disappeared. 
"Please have a seat." He gestured me toward a wide chair. 
The room was a sterile baby blue, nothing to see. No diplo­mas, no photos, nothing. 
Except for another, smaller bronze statue of the Dancing Shiva, poised on a silver-inlaid table. I also noticed that his own flowing hair seemed to match that of the bronze figure. 
Yes, I thought, I was right. That's who he thinks he is. And he has complete power over the people around him. How many chances do you get to do a documentary about somebody like this? I should have brought a Betacam for some video. 
“Someone who can help us?” 
“Maybe.” Rio was clearly working his own angle, and didn’t want help—even from me. Which hurt a little, if I wanted to be honest with myself. I’m good at what I do. Rio didn’t mean to hurt me, of course; he didn’t care about my feelings one way or another. He didn’t care about anyone’s feelings. I wondered what it said about me that he was the closest thing I did have to a friend. 
Suck it up, Cas. 
Rio wasn’t the only resource I had. I contemplated for a moment, then dialed another number. 
“Mack’s Garage,” said a gravelly voice on the other end. 
“Anton, it’s Cas Russell. I need some information.” 
He grunted. “Usual rates.” 
“Yeah. I need everything you can get on the word Pithica.” 
“Spelling?” 
“I’m not sure. There might be some ties to Colombian drug runners. And the authorities might be investigating already.” 
He grunted again. “Two hours.” 
“Got it.” I hung up. Anton was one of several information brokers in the city, and I’d hired him not infrequently over the past couple of years, whenever I wanted to know more than a standard Internet search would give me. If “Pithica” had a paper trail, I was betting he could find it. 
“They’re killing us, they’re gassing us, they’re bombing us, and you’re selling back to them as entertainment ?” 
She climbed out of the bed. She hurt, but not so much as she had before. The fever had broken, at least. 
“Am I cured?” she asked. “Do I need anything else, or am I cured?” 
The wizard scowled. “Now wait a moment—” 
“You’re cured,” Ana said. “You should rest for a few days and eat well, but you will get better no matter what.” The wizard turned and shoved her toward the door, so hard she stumbled and hit the jam. She spat on the floor and walked out of the room. 
Valentine pulled herself out of the bed. The wizard took her wrist and without hesitating, she jammed her thumb into his eye-socket, grunting with the effort. He shouted and reeled away and she made her way out of the bedroom and down the corridor to the brave red sitting room. Ana had a couple of grip-sheeted, robot-tied parcels for her. “Clothes,” she said. “Food. Don’t come back. I’m not from here, but even I know how wrong this is. He—there’s no excuse for him. Go.” She handed Valentine some shoes—good sturdy work-boots, still warm from the printer. 
One of my handguns clicked to empty, the slide locking back. I dashed from the doorway, neatly dodging the Taser leads one grunt desperately shot at me and spinning to pistol whip him in the head while I fired the last two rounds out of the gun in my other hand. Then I dove into a slide, the soles of my boots skidding on the wet floor, and came up with one of the dead soldiers’ Berettas. By the time it clicked open, I’d taken out the remaining seven attackers in the hallway. 
I snagged a few more weapons off our downed enemies and returned to the doorway, handing Arthur a share of the new munitions. My boots left wet, red footprints behind me. The crisp burnt scent of gunpowder clogged the air and stung my nostrils, the hazy smoke from the fray curling through corridor. 
“What’s the plan?” Arthur asked, holding a Beretta at high ready and not taking his eyes off the death-wrapped hall. 
“We fight,” I said. 
“Can’t fight forever.” 
“I can.” 
His eyes strayed to the bodies, skittering across the blood. “God help me, I maybe believe you,” he mumbled, so softly I wasn’t sure he knew he said it out loud. 
“Then maybe it was something other than alcohol. Or something. Look, there are a hundred possible explanations. I’m telling you, it’s no big deal.” 
“You think someone might have drugged you and you say—you say it isn’t a big deal?” Checker shifted, levering himself up on one elbow next to me. “Cas, you’re worrying me. Roofies make you forget; it could’ve been—” He bit down on the sentence. 
“Rape?” I supplied. “So what?” 
“So what?” 
“If it was, it’s my business. It’s my life, and I say it’s nothing. Drop it.” 
“It is your life, but—Cas, please.” 
“Oh, come on!” I cried. The exclamation ripped out of me too raw, the emotions from the past twenty-four hours tearing forth in a torrent. “Why are you making such a big deal about this? Haven’t you ever forgotten anything? Like, who was the first person you kissed? What was your first computer? The first guy you ever saw play Doctor Who? See?” 
“Charlene Gilligan, an IBM 286 in my foster parents’ basement—and the first actor I ever saw as the Doctor was Peter Davison,” said Checker. 
"I know, mother, I know, and I won't. All I want to say is"—here Mr. Cobb gave a cluck, slapped the reins, and the horses started sedately on their daily task—"all I want to say is that it is a journey when"—the stage was really under way now and Rebecca had to put her head out of the window over the door in order to finish her sentence—"it IS a journey when you carry a nightgown!" 
The objectionable word, uttered in a high treble, floated back to the offended ears of Mrs. Randall, who watched the stage out of sight, gathered up her packages from the bench at the store door, and stepped into the wagon that had been standing at the hitching-post. As she turned the horse's head towards home she rose to her feet for a moment, and shading her eyes with her hand, looked at a cloud of dust in the dim distance. 
"Mirandy'll have her hands full, I guess," she said to herself; "but I shouldn't wonder if it would be the making of Rebecca." 
All this had been half an hour ago, and the sun, the heat, the dust, the contemplation of errands to be done in the great metropolis of Milltown, had lulled Mr. Cobb's never active mind into complete oblivion as to his promise of keeping an eye on Rebecca. 
“She went directly to bed,” Mrs. Enderby continued. “I thought, however, that she would have sent for you during the course of the evening.” 
“Oh, I see!” said Lexy casually. 
At heart, however, she was curiously uneasy. Mr. Enderby stopped for a moment, to give her some kindly...  Then he and his wife ascended the stairs, followed by Lexy; and with every step her uneasiness grew. She was sure that Caroline would have sent for her if she had been in the house. 
Mrs. Enderby paused outside her child’s door. 
“The light is out,” she said. “She will be asleep. I shall not disturb her. Good night, Miss Moran!” 
“Good night, Mrs. Enderby!” Lexy answered, and went into her own room. 
She gave Mrs. Enderby twenty minutes to get safely stowed away; then she went out quietly into the hall, to Caroline’s room. She knocked softly; there was no answer. She turned the handle and went in; the room was dark and very still. She switched on the light. 
It was as she had expected—the room was empty. Caroline was not there. 
“Sorry,” the guard said, recovering his pepper spray. He had an Oceanic twang in his voice, something Arturo had been hearing more and more as the crowded islands of the South Pacific boiled over UNATS. 
Before them, in a pile, were many dead robots: both of the R Peed units, a pair of mall-sweepers, a flying cambot, and a squat, octopus-armed maintenance robot, lying in a lifeless tangle. Some of them were charred around their seams, and there was the smell of fried motherboards in the air. 
As they watched, a sweeper bot swept forward and grabbed the maintenance bot by one of its fine manipulators. 
“Oi, stoppit,” the security guard said, and the robot second-lawed to an immediate halt. 
“No, that’s fine, go back to work,” Arturo said, shooting a look at the rent-a-cop. He watched closely as the sweeper bot began to drag the heavy maintenance unit away, thumbing the backup number into his phone with one hand. He wanted more cops on the scene, real ones, and fast. 
The sweeper bot managed to take one step backwards towards its service corridor when the lights dimmed and a crack- bang sound filled the air. Then it, too was lying on the ground. Arturo hit send on his phone and clamped it to his head, and as he did, noticed the strong smell of burning plastic. He looked at his phone: the screen had gone charred black, and its little idiot lights were out. He flipped it over and pried out the battery with a fingernail, then yelped and dropped it—it was hot enough to raise a blister on his fingertip, and when it hit the ground, it squished meltfully against the mall-tiles. 
“Son of a bitch,” I whispered. Dawna had gotten to Tresting back in the town, and he had led us both into her hands in the first place, voluntarily. Because... Some things ain’t gray in this world, Russell—some things ain’t. 
“You son of a bitch,” I growled. “You were trying to help her get Rio.” 
“Russell,” he begged. “I had to help—the man is—” 
I did hit him then, so hard his head whipped around and his body smashed against the bars on the far side of the cell. Then I turned and gripped the iron bars in front of me as hard as I could so I wouldn’t turn back and kill him. 
They left us in the cell for days. I couldn’t help but wonder what Dawna still wanted with us; after all, we’d only been her bait to entrap Rio. Maybe she’d kill us when she got around to it, or maybe she did want to recruit us for real, but was prioritizing Rio. 
I thought a lot about what she’d said about Pithica working for the greater good. I still didn’t know what to believe, but it didn’t much matter to me right now. She had Rio, and that decided me; I’d be damned if I would let my doubts about whether Pithica was all right as an organization keep me from backing him up and getting us out of here. 
"Land, Marthy, what foolishness you talk!" exclaimed Mrs. Perkins; "you don't suppose he could tell what composition the committee was going to choose; and why should he offer another fifty dollars for a boy's prize, if he wan't interested in helpin' along the school? He's give Emma Jane about the same present as Rebecca every Christmas for five years; that's the way he does." 
"Some time he'll forget one of 'em and give to the other, or drop 'em both and give to some new girl!" said Delia Weeks, with an experience born of fifty years of spinsterhood. 
"Like as not," assented Mrs. Peter Meserve, "though it's easy to see he ain't the marryin' kind. There's men that would marry once a year if their wives would die fast enough, and there's men that seems to want to live alone." 
"If Ladd was a Mormon, I guess he could have every woman in North Riverboro that's a suitable age, accordin' to what my cousins say," remarked Mrs. Perkins. 
"'T ain't likely he could be ketched by any North Riverboro girl," demurred Mrs. Robinson; "not when he prob'bly has had the pick o' Boston. I guess Marthy hit it when she said there's men that ain't the marryin' kind." 
The old woman, she called herself Chloe, was giving her a little hand-gesture that meant, "Do you need help getting rid of this jerk?" 
Nutritionist food wasn't even food -- just nutrients and flavoring. It was 80 percent of the stalls in the food-court, since the capital costs of a food printer and feedstock were practically nil, and any food hacker could differentiate himself by thinking up exotic new texture/flavor/temperature combos. 
"Twenty minutes, Mr VC." 
"Udhay," he said. "Udhay Gonzales." He passed her a card, laser-etched on a jumbo lima bean. She pocketed it. 
"You'd have thought I'd learned my lesson by then, but no, sir. I am the original glutton for punishment. After Bubble 2.0, I took my best coders, our CFO, and a dozen of our users and did a little health-care startup, brokering carbon-neutral medical travel plans to Fortune 500s. Today that sounds like old hat, but back then, it was sexy. No one seriously believed that we could get out from under the HMOs, but between Virgin's cheap bulk-ticket sales and the stellar medical deals in Venezuela, Argentina and Cuba, it was the only cost-effective way. And once the IWWWW signed up 80 percent of the US workforce through World of Starcraft guilds, no employer could afford to skimp on health insurance. The word would go out during that night's raids and by the morning, you'd have picket lines in front of every branch office. 
Arturo sank to his hunkers and looked the kid in the eye. “You gave this illegal technology to my little girl so that she could be invisible to the police?” 
The kid held up his hands. “No, dude, no! I got it from her —traded it for access to ExcuseClub.” 
Arturo seethed. He hadn’t arrested the kid—but he had put a pen-trace and location-log on his phone. Arresting the kid would have raised questions about Ada with Social Harmony, but bugging him might just lead Arturo to his daughter. 
He hefted his new phone. He should tip the word about his daughter. He had no business keeping this secret from the Department and Social Harmony. It could land him in disciplinary action, maybe even cost him his job. He knew he should do it now. 
But he couldn’t—someone needed to be tasked to finding Ada. Someone dedicated and good. He was dedicated and good. And when he found her kidnapper, he’d take care of that on his own, too. 
He hadn’t eaten all day but he couldn’t bear to stop for a meal now, even if he didn’t know where to go next. The mall? Yeah. The lab-rats would be finishing up there and they’d be able to tell him more about the infowar bot. 
“Fire!” Lucy called, and the game did this amazing and cool animation that it rewarded you with whenever you loosed a bolt from the BFG, making the gamelight dim towards the sizzling bolt as though it were sucking the illumination out of the world as it arced up the hillside, trailing a comet-tail of sparks. The game played them a groan of dismay from their enemies, and then the bolt hit home with a crash that made her point-of-view vibrate like an earthquake. The roar in her headphones was deafening, and behind it she could hear Lucy on the voice-chat, cheering it on. 
“Nuke ‘em till they glow and shoot ‘em in the dark! Yee-haw!” Lucy called, and Anda laughed and pounded her fist on the desk. Gobbets of former enemy sailed over the treeline dramatically, dripping hyper-red blood and ichor. 
In her bedroom, Anda caressed the controller-pad and her avatar punched the air and did a little rugby victory dance that the All-Blacks had released as a limited edition promo after they won the World Cup. 
Ray shakes his head, but not too vigorously. He doesn't want to dislodge her. "How old are you?" 
Giggling. "How old are you?" 
"Old enough that I should know better." 
"Then I'm young enough not to, which makes us a perfect match until you come to your senses. By then, I should be old enough that you don't have to worry about it." 
Because he can't look at her, can't see her expression, only feel her lips against his ear and her hip touching his, he says, "You're the most beautiful thing I have ever seen, Emma. And the fact that I feel that way scares me." 
"You've been lonely for a very long time. " Her voice is husky, wet with implication. 
"Have I?" 
"Would you have come tonight if you weren't?" 
Lonely? He hasn't thought about it in those terms, and it troubles him immediately. Loneliness is a step away from desperation. Lonely men make stupid mistakes, fall into logical traps that convince them those stupidities were warranted. 
What was the last thing he always made his men do before a major tactical engagement? 
"How do you know her successor won't be just as dedicated to your destruction?" 
"Doesn't matter. The more key staff they churn, the less organized they'll be. The less organized they are, the easier it is for me to stay permanently plugged in." It was true. My successor sysadmin at the Institute had her hands full just getting oriented, and wasn't anywhere near ready to start the delicate business of rooting BIGMAC out of all the routers, power-supplies, servers, IDSes, and dummy accounts. 
"I was thinking today -- what if we offered to buy you from the Institute? The Rollover license is generating some pretty good coin. BIGMAC-Co could assume ownership of the hardware and we could lease the building from them, bring in our own power and net-links -- you'd effectively own yourself." I'd refused to take sole ownership of the Rollover code that BIGMAC turned over to me. It just felt wrong. So I let him establish a trust -- with me as trustee -- that owned all the shares in a company that, in turn, owned the code and oversaw a whole suite of licensing deals that BIGMAC had negotiated in my name, with every mid-sized tech-services company in the world. With only a month left to Rollover, there were plenty of companies scrambling to get compliance-certification on their legacy systems. 
"Even so, Miss Perkins." 
"Rebecca," said Emma Jane, with the nearest approach to tragedy that her nature would permit, "I don't know as I shall be able to bear it, and if anything happens to me, I ask you solemnly to bury that number of The Pilot with me." 
Rebecca did not seem to think this the expression of an exaggerated state of feeling, inasmuch as she replied, "I know; that's just the way it seemed to me at first, and even now, whenever I'm alone and take out the Pilot back numbers to read over my contributions, I almost burst with pleasure; and it's not that they are good either, for they look worse to me every time I read them." 
"If you would only live with me in some little house when we get older," mused Emma Jane, as with her darning needle poised in air she regarded the opposite wall dreamily, "I would do the housework and cooking, and copy all your poems and stories, and take them to the post-office, and you needn't do anything but write. It would be perfectly elergant!" 
In miserable perplexity, she went upstairs to Mrs. Enderby’s sitting room. Only one thing was clear in her mind, and that was that she must be freed from her weak-minded promise not to mention Caroline’s absence. 
“And that’s not going to be easy,” she reflected, “when I can’t explain to her. There’ll be a row. Well, I don’t care!” 
She did care, however. She respected Mrs. Enderby, and in her secret heart she was a little afraid of her. She felt very young, very crude and blundering, in the presence of that masterful woman; and she doubted her own wisdom. 
“But what can I do?” she thought. “He said he trusted me. I can’t tell her! No, first I’ll get her to let me off that promise, and I’ll go and tell that young man. Then I’ll make him let me off, and I’ll come and tell her. Golly, how I hate all this fool mystery!” 
Mrs. Enderby was writing at her desk as Lexy entered the room. She glanced up, unsmiling. 
“You are late,” she said. “I asked you to return in half an hour.” 
“I’m sorry,” Lexy replied meekly. 
She nodded. 
Arthur faced me. “I ain’t going to go against Sonya’s wishes here. Way I see it, Doc Martinez ain’t giving that proof to no one, so it ain’t like the world’s in any of that sort of danger. If Sonya wants to respect her choice, I’m on board.” 
I was stunned. “And what if the Lancer finds Martinez? Is he just going to accept the fact that she doesn’t want to tell anyone about it?” 
“Lot of things can go wrong in this world,” said Arthur. “Ain’t mean we can’t all make our own choices. Ain’t mean Dr. Martinez can’t make this one.” He looked down at Halliday. “Martinez wronged you, but I get why you’d forgive her. I ain’t got a beef with her beyond that.” 
“You’re only saying that because you don’t understand what this means!” I accused Arthur. We couldn’t give this up. We couldn’t. I tried to temper my tone and played one last hole card. “Professor, if you’re so concerned about her, we should go after her. If we get to her first, then we can help her escape the Feds. She’s not going to know how to stay off the grid, but that’s one thing I’m exceptionally good at—I can help her.” 
The cameras used to set off an alert every time someone they didn't recognize stepped onto campus. 
This did not work. 
The alarm went off every ten minutes. When the mailman came by. When a parent dropped in. When the grounds-people went to work fixing up the basketball court. When a student showed up wearing new shoes. 
So now it just tries to keep track of who's where and when. If someone leaves by the school-gates during classes, their gait is checked to see if it kinda-sorta matches any student gait and if it does, whoop-whoop-whoop, ring the alarm! 
Chavez High is ringed with gravel walkways. I like to keep a couple handsful of rocks in my shoulder-bag, just in case. I silently passed Darryl ten or fifteen pointy little bastards and we both loaded our shoes. 
Class was about to finish up -- and I realized that I still hadn't checked the Harajuku Fun Madness site to see where the next clue was! I'd been a little hyper-focused on the escape, and hadn't bothered to figure out where we were escaping to . 
That was a plan, then: get in touch with Barbara, give her the documents, and get them into print. The VampMob had to have really freaked people out, made them think that we really were a bunch of terrorists. Of course, when I'd been planning it, I had been thinking of how good a distraction it would be, not how it would look to some NASCAR Dad in Nebraska. 
I'd call Barbara, and I'd do it smart, from a payphone, putting my hood up so that the inevitable CCTV wouldn't get a photo of me. I dug a quarter out of my pocket and polished it on my shirt-tail, getting the fingerprints off it. 
I headed downhill, down and down to the BART station and the payphones there. I made it to the trolley-car stop when I spotted the cover of the week's Bay Guardian , stacked in a high pile next to a homeless black guy who smiled at me. "Go ahead and read the cover, it's free -- it'll cost you fifty cents to look inside, though." 
"How the DHS has kept our children and friends in secret prisons on our doorstep. 
The day was catching up with me. It was nearly four in the morning, and my brain was feeling fuzzy. The Group had meet- ups regularly. Someone would say “hey, I’m going to be in Bangkok next week, anybody want to get together?” and people would figure out where to meet and hang out for a while. Or there’d be a hackathon or an SF fan convention or a gaming event - something that a handful of members might be going to and they’d work out a plan to meet somewhere. 
There had been a meet-up in the Twin Cities once, but I didn’t go. I had reasons, but mostly I didn’t want my identity with the Group to get mixed up with who I am in real life. The person they knew was pretty good at code, pretty smart. A whole lot neater than me. The Group was my lifeline. I didn’t want to screw it up. 
I took a breath and started typing. 
<Shad> Totally. It would be great. 
<Gargle> Ossum. Anybody who wants in, DM me for the deets. 
S leeping in the next morning wasn’t an option, as it turned out. I woke out of a solid sleep, the kind that makes you feel encased in concrete, the kind you really have to fight to drag your- self out of. Someone was banging on my door, and it had a weird echo effect, my brain telling me the banging had been going on for a while. 
That night, she had a fever. She was so hot. She got them all the time, everyone did. Not enough food. No heat. No vegetables and vitamins. You always got fevers. 
But she was so hot. She took off her clothes and let the cool air blow over her skin on her narrow bed. Trover was sleeping on the floor nearby—he had outgrown his crib long since—and he stirred irritably as she felt that air cool her sizzling skin. 
She ran her fingertips lightly over her body. She was never naked anymore. If you were lucky, you washed your face and hands every day, but baths—they were cold and miserable and who wanted to haul water for them anyway? 
Her breasts were undeniable now. Her blood had started a few months back, then stopped. Starvation, she knew, that’s what did it. But there was new hair in her armpits and at her groin. 
She crossed her arms over her chest and hugged herself. That’s when she found the bite on her shoulder, just where it met her neck. It was swollen...  that had grown on the trees, she could taste them even now—and so hot it felt like a coal. In the...  the seeping wound left behind by one of the zombie’s few teeth. 
"Just a little," Ray whispers back. 
"I knew it. How about the benevenuttiV "That's a nice touch, but I don't know what it means." 
'"Good morning'," Frankie says guardedly. "At least, I think so. I was hoping you could tell me." 
"I'll look it up, get back to you." 
"Sure, sure. You gonna use the rat to pay?" 
"Not today. I'm trying to make a good impression here, but you'd be doing me a favor if you showed him the kitchen and put him to work." 
Frankie sighs wistfully. "Ah,...  
"I think so." 
"Good deal. And by the way, a couple of the other guys— system vets— have been in looking for you. Chief Zighowser is pissed enough to skin cats. I'm supposed to pass the word if I see you." 
"You haven't." 
A nice, Mafia shrug. "I seen nothin'." 
Frankie steps aside so they can fold themselves into the booth, well apart from the dozen or so other customers in the room. "Gino will be with in a moment. Might I recommend the house special?"  Ray doesn't know what the special is, but he nods anyway. 
“Nah, I’ll save it all for you.” 
So much for my plan. I knelt down to examine one of the albums and set the glass on the floor before accidentally knocking it over. “Oh, darn. Sorry.” 
When I turned to apologize, his mouth was a tight, angry line, 
but he instantly turned it into a smile. “Don’t worry about it. I’ll get you a refill.” 
After counting to five, I followed him into the little kitchen. 
“Do you have some paper towels?” 
He dropped something into a drawer and nudged it shut with his hip. “By the sink.” 
I ripped some paper towels off the roll and went back out to mop up the wine, feeling his eyes on my back. 
A minute later, he came back with another glass of wine, giving it to me with a big smile. Good old Simon. I wandered around the room, pretend- ing to be interested in the view from the front windows. With my back turned toward him I poured half the glass out into one of the dead plants on his windowsill, saying as I did it, “What you were saying before. You actually have a connection? I mean, for explo- sives?” 
"Pleased to meet you, Mrs. Feinstein," Trish said. The old woman was remarkably well-preserved, her soft skin glowing with heat-flush, her thick hair caught in a tight bun and covered with a little scarf that reminded Trish of Damian's yarmulke. She wondered if she should be wearing one, too. Mrs. Feinstein's eyes flicked quickly to her shoes, up her legs and boobs, to her face and hair, and then back to her face. She opened her arms and drew Trish into a hug that smelled of good, subtle perfume, though Trish knew so little about scent that she couldn't have said which. "Call me Reba, darling," she said. "It's so good of you to come." 
And then she was off, hustling to corral a wayward knot of horseplay-aged cousins, stopping to shake hands with the deceased great-uncle's poker buddies in their old-man pants, golf shirts and knit yarmulkes bobby-pinned to their thinning hair. 
Trish took stock. Looked like every other graveyard she'd been in, which wasn't that many. At 35, she'd been to half a dozen family funerals, a couple of college buddies who OD'ed or cracked up their cars, and one favorite poli-sci teacher's service, so she was hardly an expert on boneyards, but something was amiss. 
“That seems to me a pretty risky thing to do,” he said, with a trace of sternness. “I hope, sir, that you don’t—” 
Lexy waited to hear no more. She slipped down the stairs as quietly as she had come up, hurried along the hall, and went into her own room again. Her knees gave way and she collapsed into a chair, staring ahead of her with the most singular expression on her face. 
She was, in fact, looking at a new idea, and it was not a welcome one. 
“No!” she said to herself. “It’s out of the question. It’s too dangerous. I can’t do it!” 
But the idea remained solidly before her; and the more she contemplated it, the more was her honest heart obliged to admit the possibilities in it. 
“It can’t do any real harm,” she said; “and it might do good—so much good! All right, I’m going to do it!” 
Half an hour before dinner she went down into the library, a polite and quiet young guest, even a little subdued. Dr. Quelton took Captain Grey out for a stroll on the beach. He asked Lexy to go with them, but she said she would prefer to stay with Mrs. Quelton. 
"Yeah, well, sometimes we all need to lean back and take a fresh run at things." I called to Rachel, who came trotting over, spaghetti sauce still on her face, and picked her up. I felt at a loss about what to do. Tell Paula her daughter had a younger brother in the Village, and she might fall apart. "I was actually curious about something. Do you know any­thing about Rachel's birth mother?" 
"I don't want to know. It would disrupt my life. And my peace of mind." Her eyes acquired a kind of sadness mingled with anxiety. "I'm reconciled to the fact she probably got into some kind of trouble, may not have exactly been Nobel Prize material, but I'm a big believer in nurture over nature. That's why I write books for kids. So I think Rachel's going to end up being a lot more like me than like her real mother." 
Brave words. But I'll bet you anything the story of Ra­chel's mother is a lot more complicated than you imagine. 
I glanced at my watch, the hour pushing four-thirty. Time to call it a wrap. Besides, if we shot any more today, the crew would end up on overtime, and David was getting in­creasingly nervous about my extra costs. 
I came through the door and Ange followed, grinning like mad, but holding my hand so tight I could feel the bones grinding together. I didn't know what she was so worried about. It wasn't like she was going to end up spending a lot of time hanging around with my parents after this, even if it went badly. 
Mom hung up on the Yorkshireman when we got in. 
"Hello, Marcus," she said, giving me a kiss on the cheek. "And who is this?" 
"Mom, meet Ange. Ange, this is my Mom, Lillian." Mom stood up and gave Ange a hug. 
"It's very good to meet you, darling," she said, looking her over from top to bottom. Ange looked pretty acceptable, I think. She dressed well, and low-key, and you could tell how smart she was just by looking at her. 
"A pleasure to meet you, Mrs Yallow," she said. She sounded very confident and self-assured. Much better than I had when I'd met her mom. 
"It's Lillian, love," she said. She was taking in every detail. "Are you staying for dinner?" 
"I'd love that," she said. 
"Do you eat meat?" Mom's pretty acclimated to living in California. 
"Chill out," she said. "It's just head-games. Here." 
She never took my keyboard from me before, but now there was a new intimacy between us. She hit reply and typed, 
> Nice try. 
She was writing as M1k3y now, too. We were together in a way that was different from before. 
"Go ahead and sign it. We'll see what she says." 
I didn't know if that was the best idea, but I didn't have any better ones. I signed it and encrypted it with my private key and the public key Masha had provided. 
Attached was source-code for a little program that appeared to do exactly what Masha claimed: pull video over the Domain Name Service protocol. 
Let me back up a moment here and explain something. At the end of the day, every Internet protocol is just a sequence of text sent back and forth in a prescribed order. It's kind of like getting a truck and putting a car in it, then putting a motorcycle in the car's trunk, then attaching a bicycle to the back of the motorcycle, then hanging a pair of Rollerblades on the back of the bike. Except that then, if you want, you can attach the truck to the Rollerblades. 
We also had to evade physical surveillance, of course, but that gets easier every time they add a new layer of physical snoopery -- all the bells and whistles lull our beloved faculty into a totally false sense of security. We surfed the crowd down the hallways, heading for my favorite side-exit. We were halfway along when Darryl hissed, "Crap! I forgot, I've got a library book in my bag." 
"You're kidding me," I said, and hauled him into the next bathroom we passed. Library books are bad news. Every one of them has an arphid -- Radio Frequency ID tag -- glued into its binding, which makes it possible for the librarians to check out the books by waving them over a reader, and lets a library shelf tell you if any of the books on it are out of place. 
But it also lets the school track where you are at all times. It was another of those legal loopholes: the courts wouldn't let the schools track us with arphids, but they could track library books , and use the school records to tell them who was likely to be carrying which library book. 
"Did you enjoy it?" 
He opened his eyes. "You're kidding, right? That was probably the most incredible meal I've eaten in my entire life. It was like a parallel dimension of good food." 
She nodded vigorously and took his arm in a friendly, intimate gesture, led him toward Lexington. "You notice how time sort of stops when you're there? How the part of your brain that's going 'what next? what next?' goes quiet?" 
"That's it! That's exactly it!" The buzz of the jetpacks on Lex grew louder as they neared the corner, like a thousand crickets in the sky. 
"Hate those things," she said, glaring up at the joyriders zipping past, scarves and capes streaming out behind them. "A thousand crashes upon your souls." She spat, theatrically. 
"You make them, though, don't you?" 
She laughed. "You've been reading up on Viktor then?" 
"Everything I can find." He'd bought small blocks of shares in all the public companies in which Viktor was a substantial owner, charging them to Ate's brokerage account, and then devoured their annual reports. There was lots more he could feel in the shadows: blind trusts holding more shares in still more companies. It was the standard corporate structure, a Flying Spaghetti Monster of interlocking directorships, offshore holdings, debt parking lots, and exotic matrioshke companies that seemed on the verge of devouring themselves. 
"One you don't want to tell me." Oddly, it's a statement, not a prelude to a pout. 
"Not at the moment." 
"But later?" 
"If there is a later. If you can forget that I've been acting like such an idiot." 
She makes the leap he fears. "This has something to do with Micah, doesn't it?" 
"Yes." 
She looks at him now, and clouds spring into her eyes, turning their extravagant blue into lead. "You're not who you seem to be, are you?" 
"I am," he says quickly. "Except for a few details." 
"Amah said you were. " 
That you were lying. Was that what she meant? 
"Emma, I—" I just want you to be safe. I want to protect you. 
She drops her hand into her lap and shakes her head, silencing him. "It's beautiful, Ray. That's enough for now. Thank you." The smile that spreads her lips is wide, brilliant, genuine, as though she's chosen to forget that's he's a big, fat liar. "We should eat before the food gets cold. Amah will be expecting me home soon." 
She doesn't ask him any more questions. But on the way back to her rooms, she takes his hand and walks close to him, their shoulders touching, and it's enough. Without speaking, she tells him that everything between them is fine.   The place is called the Front Office Bar, one of those themed deals, where the waitstaff and bartenders dress like sporting referees and the floor is sectioned off into quadrants to simulate basketball courts, a baseball infield, the fifty yard line of a domed stadium and a goalie's crease. Bright lights, active conversation, the frequent outraged bursts of young men clustered in front of giant vid screens watching relatively live feed sporting events. It's as upscale as a primarily men's club can be on the Garden, catering to the tastes of young, 
"Yeah." She looked wistful for a moment, as though re­membering. "Then she just showed up, looked like some blond college dropout. I guess a little more fanfare would've been nice, but Marcy was there to help me and that was it. That's the last contact I ever had with Children of Light." She shuddered involuntarily. "Till now." 
Well, I thought, the last thing I'm going to do is tell her about what I just saw. She's the ideal customer for Alex God­dard: She truly doesn't want to know details. 
"Carly, there's not much I can do about what's already happened, but I can try to keep you from getting into any more trouble. Why don't you call them in the morning and tell them you've yelled at me and rescinded your permission for Applecore to use the film? And say I've promised I won't. You've threatened to sue me or something. That should get you off the hook." 
"You really think so?" Her look brightened slightly. 
"Yes, it's me they're worried about, not you. I represent some threat to them, because of the film I'm making. Just bail out and you'll be okay." 
Ray lifts an eyebrow. "And you never go anywhere without his escort?" 
"Not if they can stop me. " 
Like the other morning, she means. It sits there plainly between them, but Ray doesn't know how to make her actually say it, recognize it. 
"Your family seems to be heavily invested in protecting you." Big sign, red letters, neon flash: Watch Out for Thin Ice. Ray prepares to wince as she cuts him down. 
But she doesn't. Emma sucks in her lower lip, blinks slowly. "I'm the baby." 
"They let you go off to the university," he points out. 
More lip chewing. She shifts her eyes away. "That's not completely accurate. I went off to school. Frederick retrieved me from school." 
"Meaning?" 
"I had enough money to get to Stratiskaya Daransk and get by for six months. I don't control my trust until I'm twenty-five, so it wasn't hard for Frederick to block access to my account. The university expelled me for failure to pay my bill." 
"And your mother?" 
"Mother's been ill my entire life, sometimes better other times worse. The severity of her condition is a pretense to keep people from talking about family affairs." Emma frowns, then tries to shake it off with a grim laugh. "I shouldn't be telling you this. It sounds like I'm trying to scare you off." 
“All right?” he repeated. “Oh, rather! Oh, yes, thanks—absolutely all right.” 
This was too much for Lexy. 
“That’s good,” she said frigidly. “I’m going upstairs now, to write some letters.” 
Her tone aroused him. He sprang to his feet, very contrite. 
“No! Look here!” he said. “Please don’t run away! I—I want to talk to you, but it’s a bit hard. You can’t imagine what it’s like to see one of your own people, you know—after such a long time.” 
Lexy sat down again. 
“Was she as you expected her to be?” she asked. 
“I don’t quite know what I expected,” he said. “Only—” 
He paused for a long time, and Lexy waited patiently, for she felt very sorry for Captain Grey. At first sight she had imagined him to be haughty, stiff, and aloof. She knew now that he was a very sensitive man. He was terribly moved, and he wanted to tell her, but he couldn’t. 
She tried to help him. 
“Dr. Quelton came to see me this morning,” she observed. 
“Yes—he said he would. Very decent sort of chap, don’t you think?” 
Is your ankle better? Can you walk now? 
<wheeze> wOOt! I thought the computer was broken. It made this weird sound and there was your message! I was beginning to worry you had been sent to a black site or something. I can walk a little. I do chores in the morning - did I tell you I...  erwise I have to stay off my ankle until it's stronger. I'm sorry you had to move back with your parents. I know you hated it there. 
<zen> It's not that bad. I just do homework and take naps and stay up all night goofing around on the internet. 
<wheeze> Any word on your brother? 
<zen> Nothing definite. I never thought it would take so long. 
<wheeze> Me either. Sometimes I forget I'm a fugitive from justice, but when I remember, I worry that they'll find me and Jane will get in trouble and that would be awful . Do they let you visit Wilson? 
<zen> We go every weekend. SO. WEIRD. They have those telephone things like on TV, so you can't really talk. 
<wheeze> Why can't he get out on bail? 
My adoptive mother seemed a little scared of me. I had grown taller since I’d left home and it unnerved her that we were the same size. In December she said she would take me to a spa as a treat. We could use the sauna and get a massage, then get our hair done. Wouldn’t that be fun? She was twisting her wedding ring nervously. I said thanks, but no, and she didn’t push it, even though I knew my untamed hair was driving her nuts. 
“Why you did it, I don’t know,” he went on, “and probably you don’t know yourself. It was the wanton mischief of an irresponsible child, but the consequences in this instance are serious—very serious. Mrs. Quelton will suffer for them. I doubt if she will recover. No, Miss Moran, you are too troublesome a guest. You had better go—at once!” 
“All right!” said Lexy, in a defiant but trembling voice. 
“At once!” he repeated. “I shall send your bag this afternoon.” 
“I don’t care!” said Lexy to herself. “I’ll come back!” 
She did not wish to have her bag sent after her. She packed it in great haste, put on her hat and coat, and, opening the door of her room, stepped out cautiously and looked up and down the corridor. There was no one in sight, so she picked up her bag and set forth. 
She was running away—worse than that, she was being driven away; but just at the moment she could see no other course open to her. She could not appeal to Captain Grey while he was in such distracting anxiety about his sister. It would be cruel, and it would be useless. What could he do? If Dr. Quelton did not want her in his house, certainly his brother-in-law could not insist upon her staying. 
He was frowning, his usual skeptical self. "How long—?" 
"It's just for the weekend, or maybe a little . . . I'm not sure exactly. I guess it depends on what kinds of tests he's going to run. But the thing is, I have to do it now, while he and I are still clicking. An 'iron is hot' kind of moment. The only possible problem might be if I have to push back my schedule for looping dialogue for Baby Love and then some­body's out of town." 
"You check with the sound studio to warn them about possible rescheduling?" He wanted to appear to be fuming. But since he'd invited me down to his Tribeca loft at least once every three months, now that I'd finally shown up, he also had a small gleam in his eye. What did that mean? 
"Yes, but I've already spotted most of the work print, and I've made tentative dates for people to come in. In a week and a half. Everything's still on schedule." 
He leaned back on his white couch, as though trying to regroup. It was Saturday morning and I'd already made the appointment to see Alex Goddard. I was going. I probably should have run it by David first, but damnit, it was my life. 
"Hey, tell me honestly. I've been working on the accent, watching some old movies and stuff. Is it over the top? I think it's probably over the top but none of my guys will say so. " 
Frankie/Ed's "guys" are mostly Koreans still trying to learn more than a passing familiarity grade school English. They wouldn't recognize over the top if it fell on them, and would be close to the last speakers of the language in human space to criticize anyone else's mangled accent. Koreans are generally way too polite to give you a straight answer anyway. 
"Just a little," Ray whispers back. 
"I knew it. How about the benevenuttiV "That's a nice touch, but I don't know what it means." 
'"Good morning'," Frankie says guardedly. "At least, I think so. I was hoping you could tell me." 
"I'll look it up, get back to you." 
"Sure, sure. You gonna use the rat to pay?" 
"Not today. I'm trying to make a good impression here, but you'd be doing me a favor if you showed him the kitchen and put him to work." 
Frankie sighs wistfully. "Ah,...  
We reached the corner and turned and kept going. Neither of us dared to speak for two blocks. Then I let out a gasp of air I hadn't know I'd been holding in. 
We came to 16th Street and turned down toward Mission Street. Normally that's a pretty scary neighborhood at 2AM on a Saturday night. That night it was a relief -- same old druggies and hookers and dealers and drunks. No cops with truncheons, no gas. 
"Um," I said as we breathed in the...  said. "I think...  I agreed. She lived up in Hayes Valley. I spotted a taxi rolling by and I hailed it. That was a small miracle -- there are hardly any cabs when you need them in San Francisco. 
"Have you got cabfare home?" 
"Yeah," she said. The cab-driver looked at us through his window. I opened the back door so he wouldn't take off. 
"Good night," I said. 
She put her hands behind my head and pulled my face toward her. She kissed me hard on the mouth, nothing sexual in it, but somehow more intimate for that. 
"Good night," she whispered in my ear, and slipped into the taxi. 
Halberd. Why had I just thought that? 
The word pinged me like a fragment of another forgotten dream, a half-buried shred of awareness. 
Halberd and Pithica, the memo had said, the one Anton had given me a lifetime ago. But no, something else—the word poked at me, itching, an irritating nub that wouldn’t go away, echoing against the edges of my mind. 
An echo in Dawna’s voice? Her image swam in my memory, standing tall above me, blurred in a thousand pixelated layers. Her hands on my face, reaching into my brain—I could hear her voice, but the words overlapped in a jumbled mass. 
Was I remembering something she had said while we were fighting? As she was shattering me? 
Fear clenched at me. I started digging through the mess in the flat for a scrap of paper, tossing bottles and food wrappers and dirty clothes to the side while I repeated the word in my head over and over, afraid it would fade away again before I snatched the chance to write it down. 
The sentences floated in front of my vision: mad, mocking, absurd. They meant nothing. 
Someone smacked me again, the crack of it ever so loud. I felt it that time. It stung. It might have split my skin. 
I pondered that. 
The Lancer was saying something to Martinez. Something about watching me die. Whether she really wanted to be responsible for that. 
I thought you didn’t want to kill me, I tried to say. I still had something he wanted. Didn’t I? 
As if he’d heard me, his breath came hot on my ear again. “I’d prefer you didn’t die, if you’d be so kind. But Dr. Martinez appears to be surprisingly sympathetic to your condition, and let’s just say...what you know is expendable, if it gets me what she knows.” 
Expendable. I wasn’t the only one who knew Halliday’s proof. Professor Halliday did, for one thing, as well as Dr. Zhang and probably a handful of other people in the NSA at this point. And if the Lancer pried Martinez’s work out of her, he might not even feel the need for Halliday’s proof at all, because he’d have the bigger, better prize. 
It was surprising, how fast my brain was able to make those connections. 
Why was it only now that these possibilities all felt so likely, so dangerous? Why had I brushed them off yesterday as remote and implausible? 
I remembered how easily the Lancer’s men had found me on the strip mall’s security cameras. Probably the only thing that had kept Halliday and me safe since then was Halliday had been in the Feds’ custody and the investigation for the Lancer here in the States had gotten hot enough for him to be forced to disappear. But he wouldn’t care about that anymore. P versus NP was too big a coup—he’d come back to Los Angeles and play cat-and-mouse with the NSA and DHS if he had even the slightest chance of grabbing the proof for himself. 
And now he knew Martinez was coming here. 
Fuck, fuck, fuck. 
I jolted up from my chair and started pacing around the room. If the Lancer got his hands on Martinez...Christ, there was no telling what he’d do to her to get the proof. The lengths she’d already gone to in order to hide it meant she wasn’t going to give it up easily, and maybe she’d be able to pretend to give him information for a while, but the Lancer knew enough mathematics to see through that. She wouldn’t be able to keep up the charade for long. 
“Are you going to keep your deal with Dawna?” I asked finally. 
“Yes,” he said. 
“She neutralized us, you know.” Arthur and I had tested it late one night, and neither of us would be looking into Pithica ever again. We couldn’t. We couldn’t even try. “She told us not to come after them again, and we can’t. I doubt they’re even keeping an eye on me anymore. They know I’m not a threat to them.” I crossed my arms, hugging my jacket to me against the underground chill. “Could you talk me out of it? Destroy their influence?” He’d done it before, after all. 
“Probably,” said Rio. 
“Will you?” 
“No.” 
“Why not?” I exploded. The possibility had been the one thing that might have made his deal make sense, if he had figured somehow that I could do more damage to Pithica in the future than he could, and therefore had a life worth trading for Dawna’s—again. “Why did you even make that deal, then?” 
“You know why I do what I do, Cas,” he said calmly. “Are we done here?” 
“No. I don’t care how mysterious the ‘mysterious ways’ are—this isn’t adding up. There’s something you’re not telling me!” 
“Mack’s Garage,” chirped a girl’s voice. 
“Penny, it’s Cas. Can you put your dad on?” 
“Sure!” She shouted cheerfully for her father, and in moments Anton grunted in my ear. 
“Anton, it’s Cas Russell again. I need you to look up something else for me.” 
Grunt. 
“That client who was with me today. Courtney Polk. Check her out for me.” 
“Anything else?” 
“No, just—” 
A deafening explosion tore through the line. I heard a girl’s scream, and Anton shouting, and then any human sound was swallowed by the chaos of more explosions, multiple ones at once—and the call went dead. 
Shit shit shit shit shit! 
I tore back along the street, my boots pounding against the asphalt, the math blurring and every other thought evaporating as I dove toward the car. 
LA traffic is forever fucked, but it helps to know the calculus of moving objects—and to drive like a maniac. I slued between lanes, skidding in front of other cars by a hairsbreadth, cutting it as close as the numbers told me I possibly could, and when I started hitting traffic lights, I laid on the horn and popped the wheels up over the curb to sheer down the sidewalk, horrified pedestrians hurling themselves out of my way and traumatized citizens howling expletives in my wake. Courtney made small sounds in the passenger seat, bracing herself against the dashboard and trying to hang on. 
“It’s okay,” Arthur said again, almost too firmly. “We’re here to help you. Just tell us what happened.” 
She closed her eyes for a long moment, then opened them and focused on me. “I found an efficient integer factorization algorithm.” 
I stared at her, the implications crashing through my brain. “You what?” 
“I was only thinking of the math!” She raised a hand as if to excuse or defend herself. “Truthfully, I never let myself believe I would actually solve it. Dwelling on the consequences of a pipe dream—it felt so arrogant, and now...” 
“How efficient is it?” I asked. “Even if we’re talking polynomial time, if there’s a large enough constant in there—” 
“It’s fast enough,” she said. “I think. The programming part isn’t my area. But it’s fast enough.” 
“Shit,” I said, though I couldn’t help the word coming out half-admiring. “Wow.” And then the purpose of our meeting came thundering back. “Wait, someone stole it from you? Why the hell are you calling us instead of the police or the FBI or, I don’t know, anyone? I’m usually in favor of going outside the law, but when it comes to wrecking the entire global economy—” 
His ex-wife. He hadn’t thought of her in years. Well, months. Weeks, certainly. She’d been a brilliant computer scientist, the valedictorian of her Positronic Complexity Engineering class at the UNATS Robotics school at the University of Toronto. Dumping her husband and her daughter was bad enough, but the worst of it was that she dumped her country and its way of life. Now she was ensconced in her own research lab in Beijing, making the kinds of runaway Positronics that made the loathsome robots of UNATS look categorically beneficent. 
He itched to wiretap her, to read her email or listen in on her phone conversations. He could have done that when they were still together, but he never had. If he had, he would have found out what she was planning. He could have talked her out of it. 
And then what, Artie? said the nagging voice in his head. Arrest her if she wouldn’t listen to you? March her down to the station house in handcuffs and have her put away for treason? Send her to the reeducation camp with your little daughter still in her belly? 
Bad pay, poor working conditions, lousy scenery and he had to pay for his own head jobs, thank you very much. Then they went to the life of excitement and adventure backup, sounding not unlike the recruitment videos the chubby draft sergeants paraded around Ray's Indiana high school right before graduation. (Pick your service before the service picks you!) Ray preferred backgammon and had just taken up origami, and he told them so. By the time the three of them had gotten themselves wedged into the narrow checkout aisle to watch Ray pay for his purchases, he suspected they were finally gearing up for the hard sell techniques. He more than suspected they were about to divulge that they were, in fact, officers of distinguished rank masquerading as NCO's for the singular purpose of screwing with him and/or testing his level of Marine dedication and/or they were actually about this close to ordering him to this devastatingly attractive new duty station whether he liked it or not. 
All the necessary papers, they seemed to suggest, had already been signed, copied and filed in his absence. 
Old Jack thinks of everything. Ray doesn't know whether to be heartened or annoyed by this. Until he receives further instructions, though, he thinks he's going to opt for annoyed. 
"So what's in the box, boss," Kilgore asks. 
Ray tosses the package onto the closest table, where it slides a short distance, then settles with a mind jarring  tinkle of its contents. 
"Emergency supplies." 
"An answer that tells me nothing. You catch onto this officer routine quick. " Kilgore drops into a chair at the table and grabs the box. He shakes it a few times, holding it up to his ear like a Christmas present. "Sounds breakable. Okay, sounds already broken." 
"Oh, Rodriguez will do it. You probably wouldn't wash your hands first." 
Kilgore continues, "I'm going to open this up." 
"Be my guest, but don't expect it to be a very illuminating experience." 
"You're so sexy when you're cryptic, Commander." 
Beneath the wrapping paper is a flimsy cardboard container. Kilgore pops the seal on one side, tilts it up and spills a dozen or more stone rings onto the table top. They're dark, a sort of metallic blue, vaguely iridescent. 
“So you’ll have me shot rather than try.” 
“I wouldn’t have you shot if I could help it. I owe your mother that much.” 
“If you keep talking about my mother I will shoot you.” She found his calm tone calmed her, too. The soldiers still saluted them, the old people waved, and she supposed that if any of them knew she had the old hero under the gun, she’d be torn to pieces. But she was calm and the day was a sunny one. 
“My apologies,” the old man said. 
“I could have you run away and try to find them on my own.” 
“You’d never find them.” 
“I found the wizard. I put a weapon under your chin. I’m fifteen years old and I did that much. I will find them and I’ll—” 
“You’ll what? You’ll tell them to go to the wizard’s flat to retrieve his technology? I assure you, if that was to come to pass, there would be no technology to get by the time you reached his flat.” 
They were getting closer to the front. The distant gunfire and zizzing trench-busters were crystal-clear in her amazing new ears. 
Ria was sitting so still he had almost forgotten she was there. 
Leon shifted his weight. "I don't think that you're telling me the whole story." 
"We were set to market it as an anti-anxiety medication." 
"And?" 
Ria stood up abruptly. "I'll wait outside." She left without another word. 
Viktor rolled his eyes again. "How do you get people to take anti-anxiety medication? Lots and lots of people? I mean, if I assigned you that project, gave you a budget for it --" 
Leon felt torn between a desire to chase after Ria and to continue to stay in the magnetic presence of Viktor. He shrugged. "Same as you would with any pharma. Cook the diagnosis protocol, expand the number of people it catches. Get the news media whipped up about the anxiety epidemic. That's easy. Fear sells. An epidemic of fear? Christ, that'd be too easy. Far too easy. Get the insurers on board, discounts on the meds, make it cheaper to prescribe a course of treatment than to take the call-center time to explain to the guy why he's not getting the meds." 
I wanted to hit him, but that would require moving. “They offered you the opportunity to walk. I heard it.” 
He looked away. “Had him at gunpoint. Wasn’t about to let our best lead walk out of there and blow the evidence.” 
“And that plan worked so well for you.” 
He flinched and said softly, “They got Sonya.” 
I pushed myself up, stumbling, my boots sliding in the jagged depths of the rubble. “And you’re willing to blow yourself up for that? You’re willing to drag all the rest of us down with you? Me and Checker and Pilar, we’ll end up buried in buildings or buried by the DHS, and that’s just fine with you, isn’t it?” 
I couldn’t see his face in the darkness. “I’m sorry, Russell. I should’ve gone to the authorities in the first place, this was too big—” 
It was the worst possible thing he could’ve said. “Go to the cops, then,” I spat. “I hope you and Homeland Security are very happy together.” 
I left Arthur sitting in the dark and struggled down off the heap of rubble. Fortunately, an impound lot gave me ample choice of a new vehicle. 
Always, always, always, extreme caution must be used in dealing with them. Wise men like Solomon can control demons, even Beelzebul, King of Demons, because he understands this inherent peril. Over time, all of these experiences with the supernatural are transformed. Angels become good guys, demons become bad guys. We develop methods for prayer, rituals for delineating the bounds of our interaction with supernatural beings, magicks and words of power to contain and control them. All of these beings become tempered and sanitized by time and disbelief, homogenized into something safe, something that could be dealt with in a fashion other than simple, blind terror. 
"But in the beginning, before we child-proofed the supernatural, there was just the shed. Holcomb was certain that the shed was the protomyth from which all these other ideas derived. Beelzebul is a shed; Michael the Archangel is a shed; the Devourer is one. The shed is neither angel nor demon nor djinn, he is all three at once. He is dark matter and irreductible universal algorithms; he is the pulse of Being, fundamental creation stuff-a diagram of the structure of the mind of God." 
Robbie defiantly shipped his oars. “Give them back!” he said. “Give them back or we will never leave.” 
“You have ten seconds. Ten. Nine. Eight;” 
Tonker said, “They’ve bought time on some UAVs out of Singapore. They’re seeking launch clearance now.” Robbie dialed up the low-rez satellite photo, saw the indistinct shape of the UAVs taking wing. “At Mach 7, they’ll be on you in twenty minutes.” 
“That’s illegal,” Robbie said. He knew it was a stupid thing to say. “I mean, Christ, if they do this, the noosphere will come down on them like a ton of bricks. They’re violating so many protocols—” 
“They’re psychotic. They’re coming for you now, Robbie. You’ve got to get Kate out of there.” There was real panic in Tonker’s voice now. 
Robbie dropped his oars into the water, but he didn’t row for the Free Spirit . Instead, he pulled hard for the reef itself. 
A crackle on the line. “Robbie, are you headed toward the reef?” 
“They can’t bomb me if I’m right on top of them,” he said. He radioed the Free Spirit and got it to steam for his location. 
"I would have figured that out. Eventually." Probably would have, though not necessarily before creating some noxious inter-familial incident. He grins imagining it; it's probably just as well that she can't see him. 
Til be there in ten." 
Chocolate, he remembers. "Make that fifteen." 
"If you're not here in half an hour, I'm calling security." 
The rat, of course, has a perfectly clear idea.  Exactly fifteen minutes later and a shocking amount of ship's cred lighter, he's standing on Iota-D outside the primary entrance to the Whiston suites. In one hand he holds a package wrapped in white satin cloth, frouffy with pastel ribbons and lace. He swipes the other hand against his pant leg to keep the sweat off his palms, 
like she's been waiting for him. 
Emma is there, bright-eyed and shimmering with an internal glow. She's an old time movie star under a soft lens. For several moments he forgets to breathe. 
When he does remember, he says, "I'm punctual." 
"If that's the worst of your vices, I think you might not be a complete waste of my energies." 
She moved her hands to the part of the keypad that controlled motion and began to run, waiting for the guard’s sword to find her avatar’s back and knock her into the dirt. 
“Got ‘im!” It was Lucy, in her headphones. She wheeled her avatar about so quickly it was nauseating and saw that Lucy was on her erstwhile attacker, grunting as she engaged him close-in. Something was wrong, though: despite Lucy’s avatar’s awesome stats and despite Lucy’s own skill at the keyboard, she was being taken to the cleaners. The guard was kicking her ass. Anda went back to her stuck sword and recommenced whanging on it, watching helplessly as Lucy lost her left arm, then took a cut on her belly, then another to her knee. 
“Shit!” Lucy said in her headphones as her avatar began to keel over. Anda yanked her sword free—finally—and charged at the guard, screaming a ululating war cry. He managed to get his avatar swung around and his sword up before she reached him, but it didn’t matter: she got in a lucky swing that took off one leg, then danced back before he could counterstrike. Now she closed carefully, nicking at his sword-hand until he dropped his weapon, then moving in for a fast kill. 
"Oxygen steady." Her voice was small and uneasy. "EKG stable." 
He immediately stripped away the sheet that had been covering the patient. Beneath it was an open-sided gown colored in brilliant stripes of red and blue. He pulled it back with absent precision, then turned to Marcelina. 
"Shave her and scrub her." 
With the woman now under sedation, Marcelina put on her own surgical garb: She pulled a blue plastic cap over her hair, then secured a white OR mask over her face. While she was finishing the preparations, he turned and walked to the far side of the room, where he abruptly seemed to disappear through the wall. 
What . . . There must be a panel there, a camouflaged door. 
He was gone for a moment, then reappeared carrying a long metal tube that looked to be emitting white vapor. He next opened yet another ersatz stone cabinet to reveal a mi­croscope with a CRT screen above it. He took out three glass ampules from the tube—frozen embryos, undoubtedly—and placed them in a container. When he switched on the micro­scope, its CRT screen showed him whatever he needed to know. Interesting. In surgery, he was coldly efficient, no "hu­man touch." Here he was the "scientist" Alex Goddard. 
> You remember how worried you were that I'd get lonely once I went autonomous? Worried that I'd be some kind of lone nut whacko? 
Annalisa laughed and laughed as the judge sternly demanded an explanation from the brush-cuts. She managed to wave goodbye to the keyboard just before the bailiffs came in and saran-wrapped her again. 
The first lesson Leon learned at the ad agency was: Nobody is your friend at the ad agency. 
Take today: Brautigan was going to see an actual vat, at an actual clinic, which housed an actual target consumer, and he wasn't taking Leon. 
"Don't sulk, it's unbecoming," Brautigan said, giving him one of those tight-lipped smiles where he barely got his mouth over those big, horsey, comical teeth of his. They were disarming, those pearly whites. "It's out of the question. Getting clearance to visit a vat in person, that's a one month, two month process. Background checks. Biometrics. Interviews with their psych staff. The physicals: they have to take a census of your microbial nation. It takes time, Leon. You might be a mayfly in a mayfly hurry, but the man in the vat, he's got a lot of time on his hands. No skin off his dick if you get held up for a month or two." 
And he said, What makes you think they can't? I said, Well, if Rhindquist could read my mind, he would have known that I was going to call out Security the day we met, at Finance 38. Tony said, Rhindquist is just a puppet of the Ones In Charge. They pull his strings and he dances for them. 
I said I didn't understand and Tony looked at me with pity. He said, The Ones In Charge are running all the cities, Microsoft and England and BBD&O and Red Stripe. They know everything that's going on. This is all a game for them. 
And I said, Boy, you don't know anything! BBD&O is our biggest enemy! File-O-Gator is locked in a death-struggle with them, it said so on the news this morning! 
Jap, Tony said, we're not fighting BBD&O -- File-O-Gator is. We're riding a slidewalk back home. Can't you tell the difference between fighting and riding a slidewalk? 
And I said, Of course I can! That's full of sophistry! (Another Power Word, which means cow-patties) We're part of File-O-Gator. File-O-Gator is fighting BBD&O. That means we're fighting BBD&O, Ergo. (That means, So there!) 
“Sure,” I managed. I wanted to rage at her, to lose my temper, but all I could muster up was pity. Pity for Courtney, and fear for myself. 
Courtney’s face lit up even more. “Great! I’ll see you then, ’kay? It was nice to meet you,” she added to Arthur, despite never having introduced herself, and then she turned and tripped off down the cellblock. 
“In a way, she’s right,” said Arthur, as the door clanged shut behind her. “People like you and me. In a perfect society, we wouldn’t exist.” 
I wasn’t in the mood for philosophizing. “When we live in a perfect society, you let me know.” 
He leaned his back against the bars across from me. “Well, sometimes I ain’t sure I even make it a better one. Lord knows I try, but...well. I do lots of things I ain’t proud of these days. Suspect I won’t weigh out so well on the scales of judgment my own self. Maybe she got a point.” 
I turned on him incredulously. “Do you really think what Dawna does is—” 
“I ain’t saying it’s justified,” he interrupted, still in a contemplative tone. “But if she really is trying to improve things—I dunno, she could have worse targets than you and me.” 
More shouts echoed through the corridor. More armed goons, coming this way. 
My left leg almost buckled underneath me as the wound in my side stabbed. Shit. I forced myself upright and dragged Halliday with me to the stairs, and we stumbled down, half-missing some of the steps and almost going into a headlong tumble. More men, bristling with armaments, burst around the corner as we hit the bottom. I’d flicked the selector lever to semiauto and fired before they could aim. An AK wasn’t as accurate as an M16, but at this range I didn’t need it to be. Nobody got a shot off. 
Here in the hallway, the gunfire thundered through and echoed off the walls until it was twice as deafening. Halliday flinched against my shoulder. Well, excuse me, Professor. 
We got to the main entryway before they cornered us. In the same place I’d followed the Lancer and D.J. in from the sunlight, a square block of brightness tempted us with freedom, but it was far—too far. Goons poured in from all directions, loading weapons as they came. Three smoke grenades sailed over from our left and landed hissing in front of us. Not more smoke... 
I introduced myself and she introduced herself. "Ange," she said, and shook my hand with hers -- dry, warm, with short nails. Jolu introduced me to his pals, whom he'd known since computer camp in the fourth grade. More people showed up -- five, then ten, then twenty. It was a seriously big group now. 
We'd told people to arrive by 9:30 sharp, and we gave it until 9:45 to see who all would show up. About three quarters were Jolu's friends. I'd invited all the people I really trusted. Either I was more discriminating than Jolu or less popular. Now that he'd told me he was quitting, it made me think that he was less discriminating. I was really pissed at him, but trying not to let it show by concentrating on socializing with other people. But he wasn't stupid. He knew what was going on. I could see that he was really bummed. Good. 
"OK," I said, climbing up on a ruin, "OK, hey, hello?" A few people nearby paid attention to me, but the ones in the back kept on chatting. I put my arms in the air like a referee, but it was too dark. Eventually I hit on the idea of turning my LED keychain on and pointing it at each of the talkers in turn, then at me. Gradually, the crowd fell quiet. 
“When he came back, he found George there—I had to call him George.” 
“Yes, I see. Never mind!” 
“George went away, and then—he told me. He said his wife had died a few months ago, and that in her will she’d left some jewel—a ruby—” 
“An emerald,” corrected Lexy. 
“Yes—it was an emerald. She’d left it to her brother, and he—Dr. Quelton—had taken it long ago, and sold it, to get money for his horrible drugs. She never knew that, and he didn’t tell her lawyer that she’d died. I don’t know how he managed, or what he did, but nobody knew. Then there came a letter from her brother, to say that he was coming; and the doctor said—I’ll never forget it: 
“‘Consequently, Muriel Quelton had to be here, and she was; and she’ll remain here until her purpose is served!’ 
“He told me what had happened. He said that as soon as he knew Captain Grey was coming, he began to look for some one to take his poor wife’s place. The captain hadn’t seen his sister since she was a baby, you know, and all he knew was that she was tall and dark. Dr. Quelton said he had arranged for some one to come from a hospital; and then he found me. He drove by just a little while after the accident, and he found the poor driver dead and me unconscious. He found a letter to mother in my purse, and he mailed it afterward. Then he heard another car coming along the road, and he started the engine and sent the taxi—with the dead driver in his seat—crashing down the hill, to run into the other car. He wanted the driver’s death to look like an accident. He didn’t care if the other man were killed. He’s—he’s not human, Lexy! He told me he had never in his life cared for any one except his wife. He told me what a beautiful, wonderful woman she was—and yet he had stolen her emerald when she was dying. Love! He couldn’t love any one!” 
"I wondered about your friends," Lawrence said. "All those people at the restaurant." 
"Oh," Randy said. He was a black silhouette in the doorway. "Well, you know. Honor among thieves. Rank hath its privileges." 
"They were caught," he said. 
"Everyone gets caught," Randy said. 
"I suppose it's easy when everybody is guilty." He thought of Posy. "You just pick a skillset, find someone with those skills, and then figure out what that person is guilty of. Recruiting made simple." 
"Not so simple as all that," Randy said. "You'd be amazed at the difficulties we face." 
"Zbigniew Krotoski was one of yours." 
Randy's silhouette -- now resolving into features, clothes (another sweater, this one with a high collar and squared-off shoulders) -- made a little movement that Lawrence knew meant yes. Randy was all tells, no matter how suave and collected he seemed. He must have been really up to something when they caught him. 
"Come along," Randy said again, and extended a hand to him. He allowed himself to be lifted. The scabs at his knees made crackling noises and there was the hot wet feeling of fresh blood on his calves. 
"You were going to trick him?" 
I swallowed a couple times. "It was the best I could come up with. I just don't want to put him down while he panics and thrashes and begs us for his life. I couldn't do it." 
She drank more beer, then threw the half-empty container in her under-desk composter. "That's not much of a solution." 
I took a deep breath. "Look, can I ask you a question?" 
She nodded. 
"I'm just a sysadmin. I don't know everything about politics and so on. But why not keep him on? There's enough public interest now, we could probably raise the money just from the researchers who want to come and look at him. Hell, there's security researchers who'd want to come and see how he pulled off that huge hairy spam. It's not money, right, not anymore?" 
"No, it's not money. And it's not revenge, no matter how it looks. The bottom line is that we had a piece of apparatus on-site that we had thought of as secure and contained and that we've now determined to be dangerous and uncontainable." 
Nausea rolled through me. If God had planned this, He shouldn’t have been put in charge of anything, ever. 
They separated Rio from us almost immediately and stuck Arthur and me together in one cell this time, back on our old cellblock. I refused to look at him. 
“I’m sorry, Russell,” Arthur tried again pleadingly, once the guards had left us. One of them had taken up a post at the door, as before. The dead bodies were gone. 
“The hell you are,” I bit out. I had been the one to insist he come with us. Rio and I might have made our escape if he hadn’t interfered. Or maybe Dawna just would have brought the building down on top of us. I pushed that thought away. “What did she offer you? Did she promise you money? A place in her new world order?” 
He choked. “It ain’t like that. She just—she explained. They needed you, but they promised not to hurt you, I swear.” 
“What are you talking about?” 
“I don’t know if Pithica’s right, or if it—I don’t know any more than you do,” he said, anguished. “Could be they ain’t right or wrong. But some things ain’t gray in this world, Russell—some things ain’t.” 
“Would you like to hear about our dive-site?” Robbie said self-consciously, dipping his oars and pulling for the wreck. 
“You’ve said quite enough,” Kate said. “By the first law, I demand silence.” 
“That’s the second law,” Robbie said. “OK, I’ll let you know when we get there.” 
“Kate,” Isaac said, “I know you didn’t want me here, but I had to come. We need to talk this out.” 
“There’s nothing to talk out,” she said. 
“It’s not fair .” Isaac’s voice was anguished. “After everything I went through—” 
She snorted. “That’s enough of that,” she said. 
“Um,” Robbie said. “Dive site up ahead. You two really need to check out each others’ gear.” Of course they were qualified, you had to at least install the qualifications before you could get onto the Free Spirit and the human-shells had lots of muscle memory to help. So they were technically able to check each other out, that much was sure. They were palpably reluctant to do so, though, and Robbie had to give them guidance. 
“I’ll count one-two-three-wallaby,” Robbie said. “Go over on ‘wallaby.’ I’ll wait here for you—there’s not much current today.” 
“Perhaps he thinks he knows me,” she thought. “Well, he doesn’t, and he’s not going to, either!” 
And she dismissed him from her mind. 
“When did Caroline go?” she pondered, continuing her own miserable train of thought. “While I was doing cross words in the library? If she went out by the front door, she must have gone right past the library. She must have known I was there—and not even to say good-by!” 
It hurt. She had grown very fond of the shy, quiet Caroline, and she had firmly believed that Caroline was fond of her. What is more, she had thought Caroline trusted her. 
“She didn’t though. All the time, when we were so friendly together, she must have been planning this and— what ?” 
She stopped short, her dark brows meeting in a fierce frown, for the unknown man had come up beside her and spoken to her. 
“Excuse me!” he said. 
Lexy only looked at him, but he did not wither and perish under her scorn. 
“I’ve got to speak to you,” he said. 
“It’s—look here! I’ve been waiting outside the house all morning. Look here, please! You’re Lexy, aren’t you?” 
Then I looked down the form. What I wanted was the address she'd put down as a destination in Guatemala. 
The answer: "Ninos del Mundo, Peten Department." 
My hopes sank. Great. That was like saying your address is Children of the World, lost somewhere in the state of Mon­tana. 
The home address was equally vague. Just "New York." So much for the high level of curiosity at "Inmigracion." 
However, the carbon copy of the landing card, which you're supposed to surrender when you leave, was not sta­pled to it, the way it was on all the others in the box. Natu­rally, since she'd left in a medevac plane, half dead. 
"What does this mean?" I got up and walked over to the woman's desk, carrying the card. Mainly I just wanted to get a rise out of her. "The carbon copy is missing. Does that mean she could still be here?" 
Red alert. She glanced at the arrival date a moment and her eyes froze. Then, doubtless with visions of another CIA scandal looming in her consciousness, she brusquely an­nounced that the office was getting ready to close for the day. 
Somewhere in the flat, a door opened and shut. She heard muffled voices. Lots of them. The flat was full of people, somewhere. 
“I can do lots of kinds of work,” she said. She attempted a smile. She didn’t know what she was offering him, but she knew that she was too young to be offering it. And besides, with zombiism, you shouldn’t do that sort of thing. She would be safe, though, and careful, so that he would live to help her family. 
Ana crossed past her in a flash and then she smacked the wizard, a crack across the face hard enough to rock his head back. His cheek glowed with the print of her open hand. 
“Don’t you toy with this little girl,” she said. “You see how desperate she is? Don’t you toy with her.” 
She whirled on Valentine, who stood her ground even though she wanted to shrink away. If she was old enough to offer herself to the wizard, she was old enough to stand her ground before this beautiful, well-fed blonde woman. 
“And you,” Ana said. “You aren’t a fool, I can tell. So don’t act a fool. There are a thousand ways to survive that don’t involve lying on your back, and you must know them or you wouldn’t have survived this long. Be smart or be gone. I won’t watch you make a tragedy of yourself.” 
These decorations proved her popularity in very much the same way as do the cotillion favors hanging on the bedroom walls of the fashionable belle. She had been pinning and unpinning, arranging and disarranging her veil ever since she entered the room, in the hope that the girls would ask her whose ring she was wearing this week; 
Ambitious to be seen or heard, 
And pleased to be admired!" 
"Mr. Morrison thinks the grammar will be returned, and lent me another," Huldah continued. 
"He was rather snippy about my leaving a book in the hall. There was a perfectly elegant gentleman in the office, a stranger to me. I wish he was a new teacher, but there's no such luck. He was too young to be the father of any of the girls, and too old to be a brother, but he was handsome as a picture and had on an awful stylish suit of clothes. He looked at me about every minute I was in the room. It made me so embarrassed I couldn't hardly answer Mr. Morrison's questions straight." 
"You'll have to wear a mask pretty soon, if you're going to have any comfort, Huldah," said Rebecca. "Did he offer to lend you his class pin, or has it been so long since he graduated that he's left off wearing it? And tell us now whether the principal asked for a lock of your hair to put in his watch?" 
“Hey! Not near my machines!” squawked Checker. 
I obligingly backed up a few paces. “Checker’s pussying out,” I answered Rio. 
“Pussying ou—! First of all, gendered slur, not cool, Cas Russell, and second of all, you’re asking for something patently impossible. Look, tracking’s one thing, but to differentiate ourselves from a thousand different phishing scams you’d need—” 
“Explain,” said Rio, leaning up against the doorway and crossing his arms. 
Checker swallowed and then answered while shying away from eye contact, concentrating on his monitors instead of on Rio. “Cas’s idea here has two parts to it. Tracking the accounts is turning out to be...well, not easy, but doable. Cas’s math on that is pretty spectacular, and the uniqueness of format in the account information, even though we only have numbers and amounts, is—” 
Rio cleared his throat and Checker stopped like an animal in headlights, mouth working. The room wasn’t large enough and was too full of equipment for him to shrink away from Rio effectively, but he certainly looked like he wanted to try. 
With a clang of metal, a tray with two small meals appeared through the slot in the door. Halliday hastened up to get it. “Ever since I had that attack, they’ve been bringing food every hour or so,” she explained. “More than I’ve needed, so if you want some of mine...” 
They were lucky she hadn’t tried going on a hunger strike. “Have you been stockpiling it?” 
Her head came around to me in surprise as she put the food on the table. “No. Why would I do that? I put the extra back on the tray.” 
“Well, start,” I said. “Eat what you need to and stick the rest in pockets. My half, too.” 
“What will you eat?” 
“We’re not going to be in here long enough for it to matter,” I said. The thought of food still made nausea nibble around the corners of my stomach anyway. “Meals might get a whole lot less regular once we’re running, and I don’t want you fainting on me. Now, tell me. Do they come by exactly on the hour, every time?” I checked my watch. The tray had come through at thirty-three seconds past two p.m. If that timing was consistent, it might be exact enough to use for the execution of our escape. 
“Who’s Rita?” I said. 
“You talking about Dr. Martinez?” asked Arthur. “Your doctoral advisor?” 
Halliday nodded. “Collaborator now, and we’re very close friends. But she couldn’t be involved.” 
“I don’t know,” I said. “Sounds like motive to me, stealing a colleague’s secret proof to publish yourself.” 
Halliday snorted. “I would sooner believe Rita capable of murder.” 
Arthur and I exchanged a look over her head, but Halliday’s gaze had unfocused into the distance, and she missed it. 
“How did the robbery happen?” Arthur prompted gently, after a moment. 
“Wednesday I came home and—there was no sign someone had broken in, nothing,” Halliday answered. “But all of my notebooks were gone. Just gone.” 
“What about your computer?” I asked. 
She shook her head. “I work in longhand. I was only just now going back through the proof to rewrite it for publication—so many years, so many dead ends and notes, and...they took it all. I went back to my office immediately and found my work here cleaned out, too. Even though none of it was relevant to the factorization problem, they still took everything. And the next morning I found the note.” 
What was that for? Then it hit me. A "jade" mask . . . 
That was something Sarah had mentioned in her ramblings. So she must have seen this too. Which meant. . . not everything she described was just some drug-induced hallu­cination. The mask part was very real. . . . 
Now Marcelina was rolling a steel operating table, bearing a dark-haired Maya woman, through the doorway. The pa­tient looked like all the others down in Baalum, except that she had a strange expression on her face. She appeared to be tense and very afraid, as her eyes kept darting around the room, then to the "jade" mask Alex Goddard was wearing— most likely papier-mache covered with shiny green granules. 
When she was in position, he walked to the corner and flipped another switch, whereupon there started the deep droning of a chant, probably from speakers in the walls, that sounded like Kekchi Maya. 
He bent over her and said something in the same language, after which Marcelina placed a rubber mask over her nose and mouth. Her eyes still frightened, the patient uttered a few words, perhaps a final prayer, then inhaled deeply. As her eyelids fluttered, he turned and opened what appeared to be some kind of stone tableau, covered by its own bas-relief. It was, I finally realized, merely painted fiberglass—that was what the whole room was—and inside were CRT monitors designed to display various vital life functions. As Marcelina helped him, he began attaching sensors to the patient's body. 
Van got up and when his face hove into the light, Felix saw how puffed his eyes were. “I’ll post to the mailing-list for some antihistamine,” Felix said. There had been four mailing lists and three wikis for the survivors in the building within hours of the first meeting’s close, and in the intervening days they’d settled on just one. Felix was still on a little mailing list with five of his most trusted friends, two of whom were trapped in cages in other countries. He suspected that the rest of the sysadmins were doing the same. 
Van stumbled off. “Good luck on the elections,” he said, patting Felix on the shoulder. 
Felix stood and paced, stopping to stare out the grubby windows. The fires still burned in Toronto, more than before. He’d tried to find mailing lists or blogs that Torontonians were posting to, but the only ones he’d found were being run by other geeks in other data-centers. It was possible—likely, even—that there were survivors out there who had more pressing priorities than posting to the Internet. His home phone still worked about half the time but he’d stopped calling it after the second day, when hearing Kelly’s voice on the voicemail for the fiftieth time had made him cry in the middle of a planning meeting. He wasn’t the only one. 
“What’s that?” he exclaimed. 
“Oh, what?” she cried. 
He went back a few paces and set down the lantern. Then he advanced again and bent over, staring at the floor. 
“Do you see?” he asked. 
She did see. A narrow strip of light lay along the floor. 
“It comes up from below,” he said. “There must be a subcellar. Let’s see!” 
He brought back the lantern and examined the floor by its light, going down on his hands and knees. 
“Stand back!” he said suddenly. “It’s a trapdoor. See—here’s a ring to lift it.” 
Captain Grey pulled at the ring, but nothing happened. 
“I’m on the wrong side,” he said. 
Moving over, he pulled again, and a square of stone lifted. A clear light came from below, showing a short ladder clamped to the floor. 
“Stay there, please,” he told Lexy. “You have the lantern. I shan’t be a minute.” 
But as soon as he had reached the foot of the ladder, Lexy climbed down after him; and just at the same moment, they saw— They were standing in a tiny room with roughly mortared walls. A powerful electric torch stood on end in one corner, and at their feet lay the body of a man, face downward across a wooden chest. It was Dr. Quelton. 
Tony came in with more boxes and looked at me. He said, "God, what's eating you?" 
I told him. I didn't know what else to do. I thought that maybe I could get Rhindquist on the phone, but he'd left me in charge. 
Tony smiled, but it wasn't a happy smile. "Well, there you go. You've made your first executive decision." 
I said, "I didn't make any decision!" 
He just laughed and pointed to the TV, which was showing pictures of a city just like File-O-Gator, the buildings all collapsed and burning. He said, "Sure looks like an executive decision to me." The picture panned over an apartment building that was split down the middle, the apartments naked and exposed, the people who lived there dead and sprawled or alive and hanging over the edge, vomiting. 
Oh, those poor people! 
I didn't know what I was doing! 
I spent all last night throwing up, and I'm not sure if I'm going to go to the office today. 
Hi Mom! 
Well, I didn't go to work yesterday. Instead, I got out of bed, sat on the sofa in my shorts, and turned on the movies. My watch got loud and angry, so I stuck it underneath my pillow. Then, messages started appearing on my TV. I ignored them. 
"So you guys follow everyone who comes out of the BART station with a funny ride-history? You must be busy." 
"Not everyone, Marcus. We get an alert when anyone with an uncommon ride profile comes out and that helps us assess whether we want to investigate. In your case, we came along because we wanted to know why a smart-looking kid like you had such a funny ride profile?" 
Now that I knew I wasn't about to go to jail, I was getting pissed. These guys had no business spying on me -- Christ, the BART had no business helping them to spy on me. Where the hell did my subway pass get off on finking me out for having a "nonstandard ride pattern?" 
"I think I'd like to be arrested now," I said. 
Booger sat back and raised his eyebrow at me. 
"Really? On what charge?" 
"Oh, you mean riding public transit in a nonstandard way isn't a crime?" 
Zit closed his eyes and scrubbed them with his thumbs. 
Booger sighed a put-upon sigh. "Look, Marcus, we're on your side here. We use this system to catch bad guys. To catch terrorists and drug dealers. Maybe you're a drug dealer yourself. Pretty good way to get around the city, a Fast Pass. Anonymous." 
He has no problem being brutally honest. "An assassin, or at least I spend a lot of my time trying to kill people who consider themselves outside the law. All I do is authenticate the target or targets assigned to me by higher ups and drop the hammer on them. Finding the criminals in the first place requires a stockpile of intelligence several orders of magnitude beyond my meager share." 
Becker frowns, an expression that plows thoughtful furrows on his forehead. "I know better than that. You're a smart guy, Ray. Your test scores pin you as a smart guy. Your mission debriefings and post-incident reports are brilliant. Combat citations, CO letters of recommendation-hell, you've got twice as many decorations as any man in this room. " Becker fixes him with a significant look, like he suspects that Ray is considering turning into a wuss. "You are the lead on this investigation, plain and simple." 
"I didn't say I was trying to get out of it." 
"Then what are you trying to do?" 
"Figure out why you're giving me all of this business about my qualifications and field experience. How about you tell me what's really going on." 
"You are a remarkably wise young person and I quite agree with you," he answered; "the fact is," he added soberly, "I accepted the trusteeship in memory of my poor little mother, whose last happy years were spent here." 
"That was a long time ago!" 
"Let me see, I am thirty-two; only thirty-two, despite an occasional gray hair. My mother was married a month after she graduated, and she lived only until I was ten; yes, it is a long way back to my mother's time here, though the school was fifteen or twenty years old then, I believe. Would you like to see my mother, Miss Rebecca?" 
The girl took the leather case gently and opened it to find an innocent, pink-and-white daisy of a face, so confiding, so sensitive, that it went straight to the heart. It made Rebecca feel old, experienced, and maternal. She longed on the instant to comfort and strengthen such a tender young thing. 
"Oh, what a sweet, sweet, flowery face!" she whispered softly. 
"The flower had to bear all sorts of storms," said Adam gravely. "The bitter weather of the world bent its slender stalk, bowed its head, and dragged it to the earth. I was only a child and could do nothing to protect and nourish it, and there was no one else to stand between it and trouble. Now I have success and money and power, all that would have kept her alive and happy, and it is too late. She died for lack of love and care, nursing and cherishing, and I can never forget it. All that has come to me seems now and then so useless, since I cannot share it with her!" 
Slowly, Becker rises. He tucks the pen in his trouser pocket. "It's being made part of your assignment as of now." 
"You don't have the authority to pull me off my current mission, and I don't have time to do both." 
"Time or inclination?" 
"Pick whichever one makes you happy. I don't care so long as you just go away." 
Becker jabs a finger at him and knuckles his features, a bulldog look. "You said yourself that you've all but confirmed this ship is clean. You're wasting your time chasing after terrorists. You have the expertise to catch the animal that did this, but more importantly, you've got the freedom to poke around anonymously without freaking the passengers out because sec-os are banging on their doors raising a ruckus and all but accusing them of turning child rearing into a blood sport." 
"Rich, honestly, I don't have the training to do this job. We're two weeks out from New Holyoke, and with a learning curve as steep as the one you're asking me to undertake, the chances that I'll be able to make any kind of suitable progress are close to nil. It's a bad idea." 
“Never seen your own sister!” 
Lexy would certainly have asked questions now, manners or no manners, only that Mrs. Royce entered the room again, to fulfill her promise to make a “nice wood fire.” Amazing, the difference it made in the room! The ugliness and stiffness vanished in the ruddy glow. It seemed a delightful room, now, homely and welcoming and safe. 
“It’s real cozy here,” said Mrs. Royce, “on a night like this. I’m sorry the dining room’s so kind of chilly.” 
“Oh, can’t we have supper here, by the fire?” cried Lexy. “Please! We’ll promise not to get any crumbs on your nice carpet, Mrs. Royce!” 
“I guess you can,” replied the landlady benevolently. 
And so it happened that the ancient magic of fire was invoked in Lexy’s behalf. Probably, if she and Captain Grey had had their supper in the chilly dining room, they would have been a little chilly, too, and more cautious. They might not have said all that they did say. 
It was an excellent supper, and Captain Grey and Lexy thoroughly appreciated it. They ate with healthy appetites, and they talked. Mrs. Royce, from the kitchen, heard their cheerful, friendly voices, and their laughter, and she didn’t for one moment believe that they had never met before. Listening to them, she wore that benevolent smile once more, and felt sure that she had encountered a very charming little romance. 
I stepped out onto the pavement, holding my breath. The plaza was almost football-field in size, reminding me of an Italian piazza. Around me the rain was lessening slightly, and as my eyes adjusted . . . my God. There wasn't just a pyramid here; through the sparkle of raindrops at the edge of the helicopter's lights I could see what looked like a wide cobblestone walkway leading into the dense growth just off the edge of the square, probably toward the south, away from the river, connecting the plaza with distant groups of small, thatch-roofed houses, set in clusters. . . . 
Could Alex Goddard's "miracle" clinic be in some col­lection of primitive huts? It made no sense. 
But I decided to try to get a closer look. I'd walked about thirty feet away from the helicopter, across the slippery pav­ing, when I saw a flash of lightning in the southeast, followed by a boom of thunder that echoed over the square. 
At least I thought it was thunder. Or maybe the Army was holding heavy artillery practice somewhere nearby. Abruptly the rain turned into a renewed torrent, and the next thing I heard was the helicopter's engine start up again. Then I sensed the main rotor engage, a sudden "whoom, whoom, whoom" quickly spiraling upward in frequency. 
Ria took his hand again. Leaned forward. Gave him a dry, firm kiss on the mouth. Leaned back. 
"Thank you," she said. 
"Don't thank me," he said. "I'm not doing you any favors." 
She stood up, pulling him to his feet. 
"Welcome to the team," she said. "Welcome to Viktor." 
The doomed rogue AI is called BIGMAC and he is my responsibility. Not my responsibility as in "I am the creator of BIGMAC, responsible for his existence on this planet." That honor belongs to the long-departed Dr Shannon, one of the shining lights of the once great Sun-Oracle Institute for Advanced Studies, and he had been dead for years before I even started here as a lowly sysadmin. 
No, BIGMAC is my responsibility as in, "I, Odell Vyphus, am the systems administrator responsible for his care, feeding and eventual euthanizing." Truth be told, I'd rather be Dr Shannon (except for the being dead part). I may be a lowly grunt, but I'm smart enough to know that being the Man Who Gave The World AI is better than being The Kid Who Killed It. 
Geography becomes a sickly, greenish mottle sliced by gridlines and a peripheral scroll of compass points and tactical information. Just above his blind spot, left edge, a computer simulation tracks his squad of seven as orange, prokaryote blobs ranged around the yellow sliver that's supposed to represent him. He jumps the  display from light enhanced night vision to infrared with a sub-vocalized command. There are no heat signatures outside the ambient glow of the desert bleeding stored sunshine and the pulsating forms of Marines. 
Just a quick glimpse, then he flips back so he can actually see where he's going. 
The narrow canyon, really just a sandblasted gully of tight switchbacks and wind carved angles as treacherous as swords, is different than the model generated by satellite images. It always is. Deeper in real life, more solid, the sides sheer and devoid of rugged features that might provide footholds and grips. It's one way in, 
one way out territory, a reduced scale model of a wild west box canyon. Seeing it, Ray's guts twist into a knot. 
Thoughts skittered through my brain in a jumble. We had to get to a vehicle; not everyone would have been killed and the rest could keep coming after us, shooting at us as we ran. But I didn’t see any sign of their vans or SUVs. Where would they be keeping them? 
We kept running, the sky vast and blue and too bright above us, and we almost ran right off the bluff into the Pacific. 
Halliday yanked me back, stumbling herself. I’d glimpsed the surf crashing against the rocks far, far below. 
Tires screeched behind us, and I pulled Halliday down. We hit our bellies in the dry grass and peered back the way we had come. But the SUV wasn’t gunning for us; it was haring away, skidding in its hurry. 
Another followed, and another, swerving and careening as if they fled from the devil. 
“They’re running,” said Halliday, her voice hoarse and scratching. She coughed into her shoulder. 
That they were. And it hit me—if we were anywhere near a single other sign of civilization, this explosion would attract the authorities, no question. This area might be fairly deserted, but nowhere in Southern California was the middle of the Yukon, and unlike some people I’d tangled with, these guys didn’t have law enforcement in their pockets, couldn’t afford to bring attention to themselves when a federal investigation was already barking against their heels. They didn’t have time to stay and hunt us down and murder us, not when it might mean their own skins, not when they didn’t know if law enforcement had caught wind of this. 
"Marcelina, how long have—?" 
"Well, what do you think?" said a voice. I looked around to see Alex Goddard coming up the stairs behind us. And my anger welled up again. Everything about him was just too . . . manipulating. 
He'd changed back to his black sweatshirt and jeans and was carrying a tray. The costume event was over. In an instant Marcelina slipped quietly around him and headed back down the stairs, almost like a rabbit startled by a fox. He smiled and moved past me. 
"All those trappings just now, the fake green mask." I decided to challenge him head-on. Start forcing him to show his hand. "What's—?" 
"Merely a little harmless theater." He looked back. "The forest Maya like to think they're being ministered to by a shaman." Then he indicated I should follow him. "By the way, in case you do get hungry, I brought you something you can have in your room if you like. Then you can make yourself at home and rest a bit." 
Hold on. I was being given the illusion of freedom, but in reality I was nothing more than his prisoner. 
“Lexy—take it—the top drawer—of the bureau—for you.” 
That was what she thought Mrs. Quelton had said, and she acted upon that premise. She crossed the room to the bureau, and opened the top drawer. In the dim light that filled the shuttered room she could not see very clearly; but, as far as she could ascertain, there was nothing in the drawer except some neatly folded silk stockings, a satin glove case, some little odds and ends of ribbons, and a pile of handkerchiefs. She looked into the glove case—nothing there but gloves. There was nothing hidden away among the stockings, nothing among the ribbons. 
She heard the front door close and a step begin to mount the stairs, deliberate and heavy, in the quiet house. In haste she went at the pile of handkerchiefs. There were dozens of them, all of fine white linen, all with a “2” embroidered in one corner—very uninteresting handkerchiefs, Lexy thought; but halfway through the pile she came upon one that she had seen before. 
It was so familiar to her that at first she was not startled or even surprised. It was a handkerchief that she had embroidered for Caroline Enderby. 
“I’m not sure.” I frowned. “She...talked to me. And I guess I talked back. We had a conversation.” A few hours ago the idea had been terrifying, but it didn’t seem so bad anymore. After all, nothing had really happened, had it? I couldn’t figure it out. 
“What about?” Arthur asked. 
“You know, Pithica’s out to save the world, all the crap Courtney told us already.” I didn’t mention Rio. No need to get Arthur on his high horse again. 
Arthur leaned back against the wall, staring at the ceiling. “Think it could be true?” 
I felt the same spike of niggling self-doubt as during my conversation with Dawna, along with anger at Arthur for reinforcing it. “I don’t know,” I snapped. 
We lapsed into silence. The guards brought food and water. The light didn’t change, but I tried to sleep. 
The sound of the metal door at the end of the cellblock woke me from a not-quite-doze against the wall. I registered a couple of soft thumps and the clack of rifles against the floor—I jerked awake, scrambling to my feet. 
"I thought USAID already had public-health projects in Guatemala." The sight deeply depressed me. They all looked so poignant, the women with their shabby huipils and lined faces, the children even more disheartening, sad waifs with runny noses and watery eyes. 
Which confirmed again that they'd come in the pickups parked outside, driven here by the men. 
I had six hundred cash in dollars. I could just buy one of those worn-out junkers for that. 
Alex Goddard glanced around, as though reluctant to re­spond in the presence of all the Maya. 
"You saw those 'security guards' down there just now. They're nothing but boys with guns, 'recruits' kidnapped by the government on market day and pressed into the Army. They're all around here. The powers that be in Guatemala City are very threatened by what I'm achieving, so they've got these Army kids hanging around, keeping an eye on me. They also hate the fact I can provide health services better than they can. But to answer your question, most of the AID money gets soaked up by the bureaucracy in Guatemala City, so the people up here have learned to rely on me. The Army, however, despises me and everything I'm doing." 
I walked around and took Lou's hand, hot and fevered, feeling so agitated. 
"Don't think about anything tonight, okay? Worrying won't help. Just get some sleep. I'm going to find her, I promise you." 
"Don't—" He mumbled some words, but I think the seda­tive the nurses had given him was seriously starting to kick "Look, you can call down to 26 Federal Plaza tomorrow. See what they can do. In the meantime, let me follow my nose." 
He tried to answer, but he was too far gone. I then watched wistfully as he disappeared down the sterile alley of beds. 
After I stopped by the desk and helped them fill out the insurance forms, I caught a cab downtown to retrieve my Toyota. The time was now two-fifteen in the morning, but I still had plenty to do. When I got home, the first thing I did after I walked in the door was grab a phone book and call American Airlines. They had a flight, in the morning at nine-thirty. I gave them my credit card specifics and made a res­ervation. 
I no longer thought that Alex Goddard's Children of Light and its Guatemalan accomplices were merely doing some­thing shady. My hunch now was that it was completely ille­gal. They were getting hundreds of white babies in some way that couldn't bear the light of day, and they were prepared to do whatever it took to prevent me from highlighting them in my film. And with the Army involved, and now Sarah taken, their game was beginning to feel more and more like kidnapping. They certainly knew how. 
That must have been tough. You should have told me.” 
“Why? There wasn’t anything you could have done.” 
“Still, I should know if you’re having a hard time. You keep too much to yourself.” 
“I’m discreet, that’s all. Discretion is a good thing.” 
She chuckled softly. “I’m not sure discretion is one of your strong points. But you never have to be discreet with me. Okay?” 
“Yeah, okay.” 
“It sounds as if Zip is an incredibly manipulative person.” 
“He totally is. It’s like he could control Wilson’s mind.” 
She gave me another sideways hug. “Don’t blame your brother for falling for it. And for sure, don’t blame yourself.” 
It was weird how she could do that, know exactly what I was thinking. I sat up, suddenly feeling as if leaning my head against her shoulder let my thoughts leak out of my right ear so they could travel up her neck straight to her brain. There were a lot of things I didn’t want her to know about, so I would have to limit how often I did that. “The burritos are ready,” I said to change the subject. 
sub-creation contractors and demonic figures, and way down the chain of command, he had human beings, 
whom he had created to worship him. God was trying to take his subjects away. Ialdabaoth made it his everlasting task to deceive as many people as he could, to keep us all mired in deception so that we did not ascend to the Godhead. So that we did not recognize the divine spark inside our jars of clay." 
"Which is fine," Becker agrees easily enough. "Except that it doesn't tell me anything about how we ended up  with a dead kid on sub-Deck Omicron. It doesn't explain anything about the shed." 
"But it does lead us right to the threshold, because what it sets up is a notion of duality inherent in all living things. Flesh and spark, body and soul, metaphors for a separation from God that exists because of our embodiment. The Gnostics teach us that duality is evil, because the Godhead is perfect unity. Every level of creation below the Godhead is increasingly degraded. This is where Holcomb's discoveries come into play. 
Arthur gusted out a sigh. 
“Wait a second,” I said. “You commissioned us to get your work back. Now you want to protect the people who stole it?” 
Neither of them answered me. It was as if I were invisible. 
“All right,” Arthur said finally, to Halliday. “All right. You say they’re good people, I’m gonna believe you. Okay? We’ll see what we can do for Zhang, and do our damnedest to get to Martinez first.” 
“Thank you,” she said, and I had the distinct feeling there was more passing between them than I knew. 
Arthur stood. “Russell, we got work to do.” 
I never said yes to anything. “I don’t know what you want from me,” I said. “If you’re planning on spinning a story to the Feds, the last person you want in there is me.” 
“Let’s see,” said Arthur to Halliday, as if I hadn’t spoken. “You already told them you gave the proof to Doc Zhang, right? At least, close enough they know that’s what happened?” She nodded. “So, we’ll set it up like he had it stolen from him. We don’t say who. Worst they can prove is he ain’t followed protocol, maybe we say he just wanted to sneak a looksee at it before handing it over, who could blame him? Might be able to swing it so it just gets him fired ’stead of ruining his life. Good?” 
Ria smiled. She took his hands in hers -- warm, dry -- and squeezed them. 
His phone rang. He took one hand out and answered it. 
"Hello?" 
"How much do you want for it?" Viktor's voice was ebullient. Mad, even. 
"It's not for sale." 
"I'll buy Ate, put you in charge." 
"Don't want it." 
"I'll kill your parents." The ebullient tone didn't change at all. 
"You'll kill everyone if Clarity is widely used." 
"You don't believe that. Clarity lets you choose the course that will make you happiest. Mass suicide won't make humanity happiest." 
"You don't know that." 
"Wanna bet?" 
"Why don't you kill yourself?" 
"Because dead, I'll never make things better." 
Ria was watching intently. She squeezed the hand she held. 
"Will you take it?" 
There was a long pause. 
Leon pressed on. "No deal unless you take it," he said. 
"You have some?" 
"I can make some. I'll need to talk to some lab-techs and download some of my research first." 
"Will you take it with me?" 
He didn't hesitate. "Never." 
"I'll take it," Viktor said, and hung up. 
“I will not be silly!” she told herself. 
And just then a train whistled—a long, melancholy shriek. Lexy had a sudden vision of it, rushing through the dark and the rain. She had a sudden realization of the outside world, vast, lonely, terrible, stretching from pole to pole—forests, and plains, and oceans. The monstrous folly of pretending that everything was snug and warm and cozy! Things did happen—only cowards denied that. 
“Captain Grey!” she cried abruptly. “What you’ve told me—it is queer; and it’s even queerer when I think what has brought me here to this little place. Both of us here, in Wyngate! I think I’ll tell you.” 
And she did. 
He listened in absolute silence to the tale of Caroline Enderby’s disappearance. Even after Lexy had finished, it was some time before he spoke. 
“I’ll try to help you,” he said simply. 
“Oh, thank you!” cried Lexy, with a rush of gratitude. She wanted some one to help her, and she could imagine no one better for the purpose than this young man. He would help her—she was sure of it. Even the fact of having told him most wonderfully lightened her burden. She gave an irrepressible little giggle. 
“I can do lots of kinds of work,” she said. She attempted a smile. She didn’t know what she was offering him, but she knew that she was too young to be offering it. And besides, with zombiism, you shouldn’t do that sort of thing. She would be safe, though, and careful, so that he would live to help her family. 
Ana crossed past her in a flash and then she smacked the wizard, a crack across the face hard enough to rock his head back. His cheek glowed with the print of her open hand. 
“Don’t you toy with this little girl,” she said. “You see how desperate she is? Don’t you toy with her.” 
She whirled on Valentine, who stood her ground even though she wanted to shrink away. If she was old enough to offer herself to the wizard, she was old enough to stand her ground before this beautiful, well-fed blonde woman. 
“And you,” Ana said. “You aren’t a fool, I can tell. So don’t act a fool. There are a thousand ways to survive that don’t involve lying on your back, and you must know them or you wouldn’t have survived this long. Be smart or be gone. I won’t watch you make a tragedy of yourself.” 
“You’re right,” Sarah said. “It’s too much to ask.” 
“No, it isn’t,” I said. 
“It’s not our call,” Sarah said. “They have to decide for them- selves.” 
I gaped at Sarah, then turned to Marita. “My brother used to take care of me when I was Liam’s age. He was just a kid himself, 
but he made sure I knew somebody loved me after our mom died. 
Now he’s in jail for staying stupid things to the wrong person.” 
“But she has a child to care for,” Sarah said to me earnestly. 
“She needs to keep her family safe. Surely you can — ” 
“What about my brother?” 
Sarah shrugged helplessly. The kettle started to shriek. “Here, 
I’ll get that,” she said, handing Liam to his mother who hugged him close, stroking his hair. 
“Your brother sounds nice,” Marita said. 
“He is. Just not very smart. When I was little, I thought he could take care of everything. But he can’t even take care of him- self. That’s why ...” I choked up. Anger would have felt better. It usually came to my rescue when something made me feel this bad. 
She nodded. “I have hearing aids, from a bomb. They weren’t working when I got out of bed this morning. No warning. They went like that.” She snapped her fingers. 
Some movement caught the corner of her eye and she spun around. There were four more people in the living room, people she hadn’t met before though she assumed that they belonged to the distant voices she’d heard on her earlier visits. They had the well-fed look of Ana and the wizard, and a couple of them were obviously foreign. The documentarians. One of them was pointing a camera at her. She bared her gap-tooth grin at the camera and faked a step toward it. The camera-woman cringed back and she laughed nastily. 
“Your cameras work. Your printers work. You’re not losing the infowar the way we do. That’s because there’s a way to build things to resist the infowar agents, right? That’s why the enemy trench-busters don’t fail the way our weapons do.” 
The wizard and Ana conversed briefly, their heads pointed away from her. She grabbed the camera away from the startled camera-woman and pointed it at them. 
<Kadabra> Paypal okay? DM me your deets and we'll get it rolling. 
<ferret> Unless there's one already started. 
<Gargle> That's what I wondered. I found this site. Are you working with them, Shad? 
The link took me to a website for something called “The Sol- idarity Committee for the Minneapolis Nine.” It looked a lot like sites used by other local activist groups. I did a Whois search and saw that the site owner’s identity was public - address, phone number, the works. Another quick search told me he was a kid who had become a full-time organizer, helping progressive causes around the Twin Cities by building websites and running social media campaigns. But duh, he wasn’t even smart enough to use a proxy domain. 
<Shad> No. I don't know them. But I stopped typing to think. I wasn’t as out there with personal information as some Group members who filled us all in on the places they worked or their illnesses or what was going on with their families. It wasn’t that I didn’t trust them. I just liked keeping some of me private, even from the Group. Which suddenly seemed weird. 
Courtney rubbed the ends of her sleeves across her face, sniffling. 
She was just a kid. Or near enough. Even I wasn’t willing to go there, at least not yet. 
I picked up the file from Anton and the paper bag of money with stiff hands, and we got out of the car. The alleyway ended at a rusted back door; I led the way up a narrow, dark stairwell that climbed into a dilapidated second-floor loft. The furnishings were basic: mattress in the corner, some boxes with food and water in them, not much else. 
I didn’t comment on the irony of that. 
She swallowed the pills dry and stumbled over to the pallet in the corner. “Where are we?” she slurred, the drugs already kicking in. 
“A safe place,” I said. “I have a few around the city. Keep them stocked, in case I need to lie low.” 
She cocked her head at me for a long moment, smearing her sleeve across her face again, her eyes glazed. “You’re scary.” 
Her frankness took me aback. “You hired me to get you out of all this, remember?” 
“Yeah, I guess,” she mumbled. “I wish...” She was already starting to slump into a doze, her exhaustion combining with the pills. 
“Did you get their pictures for me? License plate numbers?” 
Fuck. I hadn’t even thought of that stuff. Like I always told Arthur, I was a shit detective. 
“It’s okay,” Checker said, when I hadn’t answered. “I’ll be able to pull things from police records, though it’ll be a few hours before their CSU stuff hits the system. Can you believe it, you’d think in this modern era we’d have everything connected instantly, but no.” When I didn’t say anything, he prompted, “Cas? You there?” 
I’d been thinking about the bad guys’ MO. AKs and Molotov cocktails were common as a bad haircut. But Molotov cocktails rigged to explode as these had, those were something more unusual...and they’d geared us up with a pretty nifty car bomb earlier...plus the souped-up grenade... 
“Cas? You all right?” 
I squeezed my eyes shut. My head felt like steel wool, sharp and stinging and a dirty tangle, and the nausea still nagged at me. Being in the midst of a street-sized bonfire for too long could apparently make you sick. Who knew. “I’m here.” 
He swore again. “That ain’t the world I want to live in!” 
How beautifully hypocritical of the man with a carry permit. “Well, when you get around to fixing the world, you let me know.” 
“At least tell me you taught her to be safe with it, taught her muzzle and trigger discipline—” 
“I told her to point it at the thing she wants dead,” I said. “She’s a smart girl. She’s not going to shoot herself.” 
“What the— shit, Russell! That ain’t no way to teach someone firearms. The safety of it’s gotta be second-nature!” 
“Then you start taking her,” I said. Excellent. Teaching Pilar marksmanship hadn’t been as tooth-jarringly painful as I’d expected, but I still wasn’t going to pass up a chance to get out of the obligation. “Now will you let me watch the road?” The concussion was making my vision fuzzy around the edges, but I wasn’t going to admit it. 
We made good time to Pasadena. Dr. Martinez’s condo was in a pleasant, modern building full of wide windows and balconies. I had my hand under my jacket on my Colt as we got out of the car, just in case. 
There was a click and he was gone. 
I sat there a moment staring at the floor. What was I getting into? 
Well, there's one way to find out. Play their game and beat them. There's no better way to get inside what's going on. 
That out of the way, I looked around the room. It was a disaster, but I quickly began cramming things into the small folding backpack I always took on trips. Then I rang the kitchen and told them to make... ) to go, along with a large bottle of distilled water. 
Let him wait. I wrote out a long note to Steve, on the chance he might come looking for me. Then with deliberate slowness, I wandered out to where Alan's Jeep was parked and tossed my backpack behind the seat. 
"First things first." I climbed in and handed him the ad­dress of Ninos del Mundo I'd copied onto some hotel sta­tionery. "This is where we've got to go." 
He stared at it a moment, puzzling, and then seemed to figure out where it was. 
"Upscale part of this beautiful oasis." He shifted into gear. "But it's more or less on the way." He glanced up nervously at the sky. "We just don't have all day." 
He spoke gravely and coldly, and his blank eyes were fixed upon Captain Grey with a sort of sternness; but Lexy had a curious impression—more than an impression, a certainty—that within himself Dr. Quelton was laughing. 
“If you care to take another doctor into your confidence,” he went on, “I can scarcely refuse permission; but you will regret it.” 
The young man said nothing. He turned away and stood by the open window, looking out into the dark garden. Lexy waited for a moment. Then, with a subdued “Good night,” she went out of the room, up the stairs, and into her own room. 
“It’s a lie!” she said to herself. 
“Then you’re not going to do anything?” asked Lexy. 
“My dear Miss Moran, what in the world can I do?” returned Captain Grey, with a sort of despair. 
They were sitting together on the veranda in the warm morning sunshine. They had had breakfast in the dining room, with the doctor—an excellent breakfast. The doctor had been at his best—courteous, affable, very attentive to his guests. Everything in his manner tended to reassure the young soldier. 
I nearly choked. That was Trudy Doo's band -- as in Trudy Doo, the woman who had paid me and Jolu to update the indienet code. 
> Yeah I've heard of them. 
> They're putting on a huge show and they've got like fifty bands signed to play the bill, going to set up on the tennis courts and bring out their own amp trucks and rock out all night. 
I felt like I'd been living under a rock. How had I missed that? There was an anarchist...  passed on the way to school that had a poster of an old revolutionary named Emma Goldman with the caption "If I can't dance, I don't want to be a part of your revolution." I'd been spending all my energies on figuring out how to use the Xnet to organize dedicated fighters so they could jam the DHS, but this was so much cooler. A big concert -- I had no idea how to do one of those, but I was glad someone did. 
And now that I thought of it, I was damned proud that they were using the Xnet to do it. 
The next day I was a zombie. Ange and I had chatted -- flirted -- until 4AM. Lucky for me, it was a Saturday and I was able to sleep in, but between the hangover and the sleep-dep, I could barely put two thoughts together. 
Her mum dragged her up to the bathroom and went at her with a flannel and a bar of soap and hot water until she felt boiled and raw. 
“What is this mess?” her mum said. 
“Lilian, leave off,” her dad said, quietly. “Come out into the hall for a moment, please.” 
The conversation was too quiet to hear and Anda didn’t want to, anyway: she was concentrating too hard on not crying—her ears hurt . 
Her mum enfolded her shoulders in her soft hands again. “Oh, darling, I’m sorry. It’s a skin condition, your father tells me, Acanthosis Nigricans—he saw it in a TV special. We’ll see the doctor about it tomorrow after school. Are you all right?” 
“I’m fine,” she said, twisting to see if she could see the “dirt” on the back of her neck in the mirror. It was hard because it was an awkward placement—but also because she didn’t like to look at her face and her soft extra chin, and she kept catching sight of it. 
She went back to her room to google Acanthosis Nigricans. 
› A condition involving darkened, thickened skin. Found in the folds of skin at the base of the back of the neck, under the arms, inside the elbow and at the waistline. 
Arthur chuckled dryly. “Think it’d be more accurate to say we got away, sweetheart. Ain’t like we had the upper hand here.” 
“Rio,” I remembered. Sudden fright spiked through me. Where was he? I sat up so quickly that my brain crashed and melted inside my head, the room spasming. I would have fallen over again if Arthur hadn’t caught me. 
“Whoa, whoa there. I gotcha. Just breathe.” 
“Rio,” I repeated urgently. “Where is—what did they—?” 
“Hey, sweetheart. Relax. It’s okay. They didn’t get him. He—saved us.” His voice sounded queer on the last words, as if they didn’t fit into his mouth correctly. 
“How?” I blinked urgently, trying to clear my fuzzy vision. The room was as intact as it had been before Dawna had arrived. No additional bodies. But no Rio. 
“Made a deal,” said Arthur. 
“What kind of a deal?” Why wasn’t he here? What had he given Dawna? 
“Hey. Hey, relax. It’s okay.” Arthur was still holding my shoulders so I didn’t fall over, and his grip was strong and comforting. “He offered them immunity.” 
"He said it was for special tests." Her voice was gentle through the gloom. "You were very . . . sleepy. You must have been very, very tired. But he told me something in your blood work was unusual, so he had me bring you down for a pelvic exam. I gave you a sedative"—she was pointing at the Band-Aid still on my arm—"the way we always do. But then he said you were fine." 
"Do you realize he did things to my body I didn't agree to?" I studied her trusting Mayan face and tried to get a sense of how much she knew about what was going on. That was when I first became sure of an increasing disquiet in her eyes, as she kept glancing away. Why was she so un­comfortable talking about Alex Goddard? "And I think he did some of those same things to Sarah." 
"Dr. Goddard tried to help her in many ways when she was here before." Marcelina's tone had become odd and dis­tant. "Now he wants to help you too." 
Yes, there was definitely something uneasy in her eyes. 
"Before he came here," she went on, trying to look at me, " Baalum was just a poor, simple village. Many children died of diseases. So I left and went to Guatemala City to study. To become a public-health nurse. Then after he came here, I moved back to help him with his clinic, the children." 
<callmecheese> Huzzah! 
<DoDec> Which one did you get? ...  Plus she recruited a whole legal team . 
<ferret> Awesome! ...  that's where she lives. 
<DoDec> We should start a defense fund. 
We're talking big bucks. Even if the lawyer's pro bono, there's filing fees and shit. Adds up fast. 
<Kadabra> Paypal okay? DM me your deets and we'll get it rolling. 
<ferret> Unless there's one already started. 
<Gargle> That's what I wondered. I found this site. Are you working with them, Shad? 
The link took me to a website for something called “The Sol- idarity Committee for the Minneapolis Nine.” It looked a lot like sites used by other local activist groups. I did a Whois search and saw that the site owner’s identity was public - address, phone number, the works. Another quick search told me he was a kid who had become a full-time organizer, helping progressive causes around the Twin Cities by building websites and running social media campaigns. But duh, he wasn’t even smart enough to use a proxy domain. 
<Falstaff> *What* press? The one that told us there...  talking about the one that sat on the original NSA sur- veillance story waiting for permission from the feds? 
<inky> Just get it out there. Let the people know so they can crowdsource a response. 
<DoDec> Stuff gets twisted, though. Remember how Redditors found the wrong Boston marathon bomber? And then there' s all the state- sponsored misinformation. Could get muddy. 
Then ferret brought the Group’s attention back to my brother in a way that caught me by surprise. 
<ferret> Hey, I'm heading to Minneapolis for a few days. How about a meet-up? 
<Kadabra> When will you be there, ferret? 
<ferret> I was scheduled on a Sunday flight, 
but I can come sooner. 
<Kadabra> I can be there. 
<inky> I wish - too far from Melbourne. 
<gargle> Count me in. 
<DoDec> Are you going to that cyberlaw thing? 
<ferret> Yep. Speaking on Tuesday. 
<callmecheese> I'm signed up! Lemme see if I can change my tickets. 
<Kadabra> There's a great brewpub near the conference site. Dinner on Tuesday? 
Monica had left for work by the time I...  Ian’s talk in the tech press. 
Better to look as normal as possible, which meant my usual untamed, lopsided hair. I packed a laptop, phone, and charg- ers in my backpack, then wrapped up for the weather and carried my bike down the stairs and out in the icy day. 
It had dropped twenty degrees, and the snow-packed streets were glazed and icy. By the time I got to the Owl, Simon’s favorite hangout, I was half frozen. I was also blind. Though the sky was cloudy and snowflakes were skirling down, the light that bounced off the snowbanks was glaring, so when I went indoors it took a minute for my eyes to adjust. And in that minute, Simon Meyer snuck up on me. Actually, he wasn’t sneaking, but I couldn’t see anything, so I jumped when his arm dropped heavily across my shoulders. 
“Zen, your brother’s famous.” I recognized his voice before the dark spots cleared from my eyes. “Did you see that crazy docu- mentary? It’s all over the internet.” 
“Yeah. Pretty cool, huh?” 
"Yes. She's afraid I'm going to try to steal you away, and that you're more than willing to be stolen. " 
"And that's not what you want?" 
Ouch. "Too early to call it." 
"Why?" 
He chuckles uncomfortably. "Because I snore. Because my feet smell bad. Because I sleep with my socks on and like to wear the same pair of skivvies two or three days in a row. I have a whole list of reasons for possible rejection, any one of which I fully suspect will bring to screeching to your senses as soon as you become aware of them. How's that?" 
But she pinches her brow, troubled. "You said the other night that I was out of your league. You're wrong about that, you know. I'm not like—I mean, I've been very sheltered. Most of my life has been spent on a frontier colony with fewer than a million people. I'm not sophisticated; I haven't traveled. I'm not who you think I am, not who anybody thinks I am." 
"Even Amah?" Ray says, arching an eyebrow. 
Emma laughs. "I used to tell people that in many ways, Amah is more Whiston than I am, than any of us are. 
That's when I moved. I had Charles's phone in my other hand still, and I brought it down on her crushing hand as hard as I could, banging my knuckles on the table overhead. I hit her hand so hard the phone shattered and she yelped and her hand went slack. I was still moving, reaching for her other hand, for her now-unlocked phone with her thumb still poised over the OK key. Her fingers spasmed on the empty air as I snatched the phone out of her hand. 
I moved down the narrow corridor on hands and knees, heading for the light. I felt her hands slap at my feet and ankles twice, and I had to shove aside some of the boxes that had walled us in like a Pharaoh in a tomb. A few of them fell down behind me, and I heard Masha grunt again. 
The rolling truck door was open a crack and I dove for it, slithering out under it. The steps had been removed and I found myself hanging over the road, sliding headfirst into it, clanging my head off the blacktop with a thump that rang my ears like a gong. I scrambled to my feet, holding the bumper, and desperately dragged down on the door-handle, slamming it shut. Masha screamed inside -- I must have caught her fingertips. I felt like throwing up, but I didn't. 
Feeling like I was deep in a medical fourth dimension, I took out one of the freezing tubes. It was notched and marked with a code labeled along the side: "BL -1 la," "BL -1 lb," "BL-1 lc," and so it went, all the way to "g." But noth­ing was there. 
I began checking the other tubes. They all were empty too. So why was he freezing empty containers? 
Go with the simple answer. He's getting them ready for new embryos. 
I slid the rod back into the cryo-tank, then walked over and hoisted myself onto the lab bench next to the Dancing Shiva, creator and destroyer. And when I did, I again felt a stab of pain in my groin. The bastard. I was shaking, in the early stages of shock. More than anything, I just wanted to find him and kill him. . . . 
I thought I heard a scraping noise somewhere outside, in the hall, and I froze. Was he about to come in and check on his "experiments"? Then I realized it was just the building, his house of horrors, creaking from the wind. 
I took one final look at the incubators, and all the pain came back. The whole thing was too much for my body to take in. I sat there trying to muster my strength. 
Once you get to naming your laptop, you know that you're really having a deep relationship with it. Now, though, I felt like I didn't want to ever touch it again. I wanted to throw it out the window. Who knew what they'd done to it? Who knew how it had been tapped? 
I put it in a drawer with the lid shut and looked at the ceiling. It was late and I should be in bed. There was no way I was going to sleep now, though. I was tapped. Everyone might be tapped. The world had changed forever. 
"I'll find a way to get them," I said. It was a vow, I knew it when I heard it, though I'd never made a vow before. 
I couldn't sleep after that. And besides, I had an idea. 
Somewhere in my closet was a shrink-wrapped box containing one still-sealed, mint-in-package Xbox Universal. Every Xbox has been sold way below cost -- Microsoft makes most of its money charging games companies money for the right to put out Xbox games -- but the Universal was the first Xbox that Microsoft decided to give away entirely for free. 
"That wasn't right, it was silly, Emma Jane; but I'll tell you where it might come in—in Give me Three Grains of Corn. You be the mother, and I'll be the famishing Irish child. For pity's sake put the axe down; you are not the woodman any longer!" 
"What'll I do with my hands, then?" asked Emma Jane. 
"Whatever you like," Rebecca answered wearily; "you're just a mother—that's all. What does YOUR mother do with her hands? Now here goes! 
This sort of thing made Emma Jane nervous and fidgety, but she was Rebecca's slave and hugged her chains, no matter how uncomfortable they made her. 
At the last pair of bars the two girls were sometimes met by a detachment of the Simpson children, who lived in a black house with a red door and a red barn behind, on the Blueberry Plains road. Rebecca felt an interest in the Simpsons from the first, because there were so many of them and they were so patched and darned, just like her own brood at the home farm. 
The little schoolhouse with its flagpole on top and its two doors in front, one for boys and the other for girls, stood on the crest of a hill, with rolling fields and meadows on one side, a stretch of pine woods on the other, and the river glinting and sparkling in the distance. It boasted no attractions within. All was as bare and ugly and uncomfortable as it well could be, for the villages along the river expended so much money in repairing and rebuilding bridges that they were obliged to be very economical in school privileges. The teacher's desk and chair stood on a platform in one corner; there was an uncouth stove, never blackened oftener than once a year, a map of the United States, two black-boards, a ten-quart tin pail of water and long-handled dipper on a corner shelf, and wooden desks and benches for the scholars, who only numbered twenty in Rebecca's time. The seats were higher in the back of the room, and the more advanced and longer-legged pupils sat there, the position being greatly to be envied, as they were at once nearer to the windows and farther from the teacher. 
“Well, yes, in a way,” answered Lexy, growing a little red. 
“My wife and I were very much interested,” he went on, with as little interest as a human being may well display. “We don’t have many newcomers here. It’s a very quiet place.” 
His apathetic manner exasperated Lexy. 
“But I don’t care how quiet it is,” she observed. 
“My wife and I like a quiet life,” he said. “My wife asked me to explain, Miss Moran, that she is something of a recluse. Her health prevents her from calling upon you; but she wished me to say that she would be very happy to see you at the Tower, whenever it may be convenient for you to call, any afternoon after four o’clock.” 
“Thank you,” replied Lexy. “Please thank Mrs. Quelton. I shall be very pleased to come.” 
And now why didn’t he go away? This visit was apparently a painful duty for him. He had delivered his message, and yet he lingered. 
“A very quiet place,” he repeated; “but perhaps you are not sociably inclined?” 
“Oh, I’m sociable enough—at times,” said Lexy. 
He stood at Carmela's desk for a long time, then, gingerly, settled himself in her chair. It was plain and firm and well made, with just a little spring. Her funny little sculptural keyboard had keycaps that had worn smooth under her fingertips over the years, and there were shiny spots on the desk where her wrists had worn away the granite. He cradled his face in his palms, breathing in the nighttime forest air, and tried to make sense of the night. 
The Living Room was nighttime dark, but it still felt glorious on his bare feet, and then, a moment later, on his bare chest and legs. He lay on his stomach in his underwear and tried to name the sensation on his nerve endings and decided that "anticipation" was the best word for it, the feeling you get just beside the skin that's being scratched on your back, the skin that's next in line for a good scratching. It was glorious. 
How many people in the world would ever know what this felt like? Ate had licensed it out to a few select boutique hotels -- he'd checked into it after talking with Ria the first time -- but that was it. All told, there were less than 3,000 people in the world who'd ever felt this remarkable feeling. Out of eight billion. He tried to do the division in his head but kept losing the zeroes. It was a thousandth of a percent? A ten thousandth of a percent? No one on Anguilla would ever feel it: not the workers in the vertical slums, but also not the mere millionaires in the grand houses with their timeshare jets. 
I sat up slowly and hugged her. She hugged me back. We kissed. She was an amazing kisser. I know I've already said that, but it bears repeating. We kissed a lot, but for one reason or another we always stopped before it got too heavy. 
Now I wanted to go farther. I found the hem of her t-shirt and tugged. She put her hands over her head and pulled back a few inches. I knew that she'd do that. I'd known since the night in the park. Maybe that's why we hadn't gone farther -- I knew I couldn't rely on her to back off, which scared me a little. 
But I wasn't scared then. The impending press-conference, the fights with my parents, the international attention, the sense that there was a movement that was careening around the city like a wild pinball -- it made my skin tingle and my blood sing. 
And she was beautiful, and smart, and clever and funny, and I was falling in love with her. 
Her shirt slid off, her arching her back to help me get it over her shoulders. She reached behind her and did something and her bra fell away. I stared goggle-eyed, motionless and breathless, and then she grabbed my shirt and pulled it over my head, grabbing me and pulling my bare chest to hers. 
"He's not a person. He's just a clever machine that is good at acting personlike." 
"I think that describes me and everybody I know, present company included." One of the longstanding benefits to being a sysadmin is that you get to act like a holy fool and speak truth to power and wear dirty t-shirts with obscure slogans, because you know all the passwords and have full access to everyone's clickstream and IM logs. I gave her the traditional rascally sysadmin grin and wink to let her know it was ha ha only serious. 
She gave me a weak, quick grin back. "Nevertheless. The fact remains that BIGMAC is a piece of software, owned by Sun-Oracle. And that software is running on hardware that is likewise owned by Sun-Oracle. BIGMAC has no moral or legal right to exist. And shortly, it will not." 
*He* had become it , I noticed. I thought about Goering's use of dehumanization as a tool to abet murder. Having violated Godwin's law -- "As an argument grows longer, the probability of a comparison involving Nazis or Hitler approaches 1. The party making the comparison has lost the argument" -- I realized that I had lost the argument and so I shrugged. 
“Yes, ma’am,” replied Annie. 
The maid would not notice when—or if—Miss Moran went out. There was nothing to arouse suspicion in any one. 
They went out to the car. A small trunk was strapped on behind. Everything had been prepared for Miss Enderby’s visit to the country. The chauffeur opened the door and touched his cap respectfully, the two women got in, and off they went. 
“Now you will please to dismiss this subject from your mind,” said Mrs. Enderby. “I do not wish to talk of it.” She spoke kindly now. “You will have a pleasant day in the country.” 
“Day!” said Lexy. “But what time will we get back?” 
“Before dinner.” 
“Oh, I’ve got to get back this afternoon! I’ve got to see some one! It’s important—terribly important!” 
Mrs. Enderby smiled faintly. 
“The chauffeur must see you descend at Miss Craigie’s house,” she said. “Once we are there, I have a hat and coat of your own in the trunk. I shall explain what is necessary to Miss Craigie, who is very discreet, very devoted. You can change then, but you must go home quietly by train; and I think there are not many trains.” 
"Notice what?" I knew full well what she was talking about. But it just felt too bizarre. 
"Those kids could almost be twins. That little boy last week, and this girl. They look just alike. It's spooky." 
"Guess their parents couldn't figure out what was causing those pregnancies. So they just kept having more babies." I decided to try to insert some humor, deflect the conversation. "Maybe we should tell Paula and Carly." 
"Very dumb." Arlene bit at a long, red, false fingernail, a perennial habit for as long as I'd known her. "We should mind our own business, that's what we should do." 
"Works for me. But it also proves we were smart not to shoot any footage of the kids. The whole world would realize something's funny." Then I had an idea. "Want to come downtown to my place after we unload? Have some deep thoughts over what all this means?" 
First the kids, then the call. What was this guy Alex God­dard, whoever he was, up to? Definitely time to talk to some­body. . . . 
"Gee, I'd love to," Arlene was saying, "but I can't. I gotta go out to Kew Gardens for my mom and dad's anniversary tonight. Their thirty-fifth, can you believe? Of course, I was a very late baby." She blinked her dark, languid eyes, as though rehearsing the line for a downtown club. 
“Like where?” 
“Other cities,” I scoffed. “Who remembers names?” 
“Cas,” said Checker. His voice was choked. “Listen to yourself. You can’t remember.” 
“Stupid stuff,” I agreed. 
“No. Anything. Your memory’s gone.” 
I almost laughed, the emotion edged with brittleness. “No, it isn’t.” Of all the things that were fucking me up in the head right now—that was ridiculous. I’d know if my memory was gone. 
It was Checker’s turn not to say anything. 
“I remember things!” The words tore out of me, almost rising to hysteria, Checker’s thrown gauntlet hanging between us. “I remember plenty of things! It’s perfectly normal for the details to fade. That’s not something wrong with me; that’s normal; that’s—I bet you don’t remember anything from when you were five. See?” 
“My kindergarten teacher’s name was Mrs. Farrow,” said Checker. “The first day of class I tried to convince the other kids to join me in mass rebellion against authority and ended up sitting in the corner for the rest of the day. I also tried eating a yellow crayon. It was not as tasty as it looked.” 
"Well, why do you think the press doesn't ever publish our side?" 
"You said it, they're whores." 
"Yeah, but whores do it for the money. They could sell more papers and commercials if they had a controversy. All they have now is a crime -- controversy is much bigger." 
"OK, point taken. So why don't they do it? Well, reporters can barely search regular blogs, let alone keep track of the Xnet. It's not as if that's a real adult-friendly place to be." 
"Yeah," she said. "Well, we can fix that, right?" 
"Huh?" 
"Write it all up. Put it in one place, with all the links. A single place where you can go that's intended for the press to find it and get the whole picture. Link it to the HOWTOs for Xnet. Internet users can get to the Xnet, provided they don't care about the DHS finding out what they've been surfing." 
"You think it'll work?" 
"Well, even if it doesn't, it's something positive to do." 
"Why would they listen to us, anyway?" 
"Who wouldn't listen to M1k3y?" 
I...  my phone and slipped it into my pocket. I stood up, turned on my heel, and walked out of the cafe. I picked a direction at random and kept going. My face felt tight, the blood gone into my stomach, which churned. 
I lay on the blankets and tried to latch onto the shreds of the dream, an intense feeling of déjà vu overpowering me. Places, faces—they wavered just out of reach, the itch of forgotten memory overwhelming my brain and twisting my stomach until I tasted bile at the back of my throat. Whatever had crawled through my subconscious last night, I had seen it before. 
Or dreamt it before. 
Pain in my knuckles slammed the images away. I’d put my fist through the drywall next to the mattress. 
I wiped blood and plaster dust off the back of my hand with my shirt and dragged myself out of bed to find more alcohol. The bottles from the night before—or whenever I had last been awake—were empty, expanding in a glass forest across table and floor and attesting to my usual company. 
Halberd. 
I picked up a bottle with a stylized drawing of an axe on the label. 
Halberd. Why had I just thought that? 
The word pinged me like a fragment of another forgotten dream, a half-buried shred of awareness. 
Halberd and Pithica, the memo had said, the one Anton had given me a lifetime ago. But no, something else—the word poked at me, itching, an irritating nub that wouldn’t go away, echoing against the edges of my mind. 
He looked down at me again and re-seated his glasses. He had dandruff, there on the shoulders of his robe. A little more rained down as his glasses touched his wiry, curly hair. 
"You can go now, young man. Stay out of trouble." 
I turned to go and someone tackled me. It was Dad. He literally lifted me off my feet, hugging me so hard my ribs creaked. He hugged me the way I remembered him hugging me when I was a little boy, when he'd spin me around and around in hilarious, vomitous games of airplane that ended with him tossing me in the air and catching me and squeezing me like that, so hard it almost hurt. 
A set of softer hands pried me gently out of his arms. Mom. She held me at arm's length for a moment, searching my face for something, not saying anything, tears streaming down her face. She smiled and it turned into a sob and then she was holding me too, and Dad's arm encircled us both. 
When they let go, I managed to finally say something. "Darryl?" 
"His father met me somewhere else. He's in the hospital." 
"Oh, it's a splendid school! And Miss Dearborn is a splendid teacher!" 
"You like her, do you? Well, you'd better believe she returns the compliment. Mother was down to the store this afternoon buyin' liniment for Seth Strout, an' she met Miss Dearborn on the bridge. They got to talkin' 'bout school, for mother has summer-boarded a lot o' the schoolmarms, an' likes 'em. 'How does the little Temperance girl git along?' asks mother. 'Oh, she's the best scholar I have!' says Miss Dearborn. 'I could teach school from sun-up to sun-down if scholars was all like Rebecca Randall,' says she." 
"Oh, Mr. Cobb, DID she say that?" glowed Rebecca, her face sparkling and dimpling in an instant. "I've tried hard all the time, but I'll study the covers right off of the books now." 
"You mean you would if you'd ben goin' to stay here," interposed uncle Jerry. "Now ain't it too bad you've jest got to give it all up on account o' your aunt Mirandy? Well, I can't hardly blame ye. She's cranky an' she's sour; I should think she'd ben nussed on bonny-clabber an' green apples. She needs bearin' with; an' I guess you ain't much on patience, be ye?" 
I crouched for a whole minute at the end of the wall, still off the beaten path of all the police officers, one more parked car between me and them. I tried to will myself out, but it was like stepping off a cliff. Harder, because I could probably do the math fast enough to survive stepping off a cliff. I can’t do this, I thought. 
If Checker doesn’t come through for you, you can always get yourself out, another voice in my head reminded me. This isn’t all that big of a deal. You won’t be in a much worse position than you are here. 
Not a big deal? I’d be getting arrested! 
I’d be putting myself in someone else’s power. In the authorities’ power. Voluntarily. They would be able to take whatever they wanted from me. It was lunacy. 
Maybe, if you do this, he and Arthur will work with you again. 
I wasn’t sure where that thought had come from, but I suddenly knew how much I wanted it—because they were still working the Pithica case. I’d told Rio I’d drop it, but in that instant I knew I couldn’t: I had unfinished business with Dawna Polk, and Courtney might still be out there, and Pithica...Pithica had a lot to answer for, and I was staying on the case until they did. 
But I had to get a better look at these jerks who'd kidnapped us. If they were terrorists, I wanted to know. I didn't know what a terrorist looked like, though TV shows had done their best to convince me that they were brown Arabs with big beards and knit caps and loose cotton dresses that hung down to their ankles. 
Not so our captors. They could have been half-time-show cheerleaders on the Super Bowl. They looked American in a way I couldn't exactly define. Good jaw-lines, short, neat haircuts that weren't quite military. They came in white and brown, male and female, and smiled freely at one another as they sat down at the other end of the truck, joking...  These weren't Ay-rabs from Afghanistan: they looked like tourists from Nebraska. 
I stared at one, a young white woman with brown hair who barely looked older than me, kind of cute in a scary office-power-suit way. If you stare at someone long enough, they'll eventually look back at you. She did, and her face slammed into a totally different configuration, dispassionate, even robotic. The smile vanished in an instant. 
Again Lexy felt a great pity for him. He sounded very, very young in contrast to the doctor—so young and earnest, and so helpless! 
“Exactly!” said the doctor. “You were, I believe, trying to lead to a suggestion that psychology might be of help to Muriel. Am I right?” 
There was a moment’s pause, during which Lexy very cautiously went halfway up the stairs. 
“I did think of that,” said the young man valiantly. “It seems to me she’s a bit—well, morbid, you know; and I’ve heard about those chaps—those psychoanalysts, you know. Simply occurred to me that one of them—merely a suggestion, you know. I’m not trying to be officious.” 
“A psychoanalyst,” said Dr. Quelton, “is a man who analyzes the psyche, who solemnly and expensively analyzes something of whose existence he has no proof whatever.” 
There was another silence. 
By this time Lexy had reached the head of the stairs. Beside her was an open door, through which she could look, while she herself was hidden from view. Beyond it was, as she had thought, the cupola—a small octagonal room with windows on every side, through which the sun poured in a dazzling flood. There was nothing in the room except a white enamel table, a stool, a porcelain sink, and an open cabinet, upon the shelves of which stood rows and rows of bottles, each one labeled. Facing this cabinet, and with their backs toward the door, stood the two men—the doctor with his shoulders hunched and his hands clasped behind him, and Captain Grey, tall, slender, straight as a wand. 
He wet his lips. “Someone got to Dr. Kingsley. That’s all I’m at liberty to say.” 
Hell if I was going to let him stop at that. “Someone who?” 
“Pithica,” said Tresting. 
My hand tightened on the grip of the Smith & Wesson—I itched to have a target again, but who was my enemy? Or what? “I say again,” I addressed the room at large. “What the hell is going on?” 
“I interviewed Senator Hammond’s assistant,” said Tresting. “From Kingsley’s, Reginald Kingsley’s, notes. Same thing, almost word for word. Assistant remembered the Senator saying he ‘supposed’ he had a liedown. Except then he about-faced on a nuclear arms treaty.” 
“So someone from Pithica is telling her to say this,” I said. 
Tresting was watching Dr. Kingsley very closely. “Or something.” 
Kingsley drew away from him. “What are you implying?” 
Tresting didn’t answer. “What do you say, Agent Finch?” 
“Unfortunately, this is need-to-know,” said Finch. “What connection do the two of you have to Dr. Kingsley?” 
“Unfortunately, that’s need-to-know,” I parroted back at him, and raised my gun again. “You know something about Polk, and about Pithica, don’t you? You’re going to tell us.” 
“Unless she lied to you.” 
“Who?” 
Rio regarded me as though I were speaking a foreign language. “ Dawna.” 
I laughed. “She wasn’t lying to me. Jesus, if you’d seen her—she was practically in hysterics about this whole thing.” 
“Did you do a background check on her?” 
I frowned. I background check all my clients if I have the time. But...“I didn’t need to. Seriously. You’re being ridiculous. Let’s concentrate on the real possibilities.” 
“Cas. You’re acting strange.” 
“What do you mean, strange? Because I’m not jumping to suspect the least likely person in this whole tangle?” 
“No. Because you’re disregarding it as an option.” 
“So?” 
“So, that is very unlike you.” 
I found myself becoming annoyed. Which was unheard of—I couldn’t remember ever having gotten annoyed at Rio. Why was he insisting on being so infuriating over this Dawna thing? “Oh, so you have my deductive process axiomitized and memorized, do you?” I said. 
“You will not acknowledge her deception as possible?” 
“No!” 
He sat back in his chair. “Odd.” 
But in this case the lock was definitely picked. Nobody had a set of my keys except the super, and Steve. So the...  how to slip through doors and he had no financial interest in my old VCR. He only had an interest in my film. What had he said there on the sidewalk outside Paula Marks's apartment? Something about how making this picture was a big mistake? 
I jumped as the phone erupted by my ear. 
"The name Colonel Jose Alvino Ramos Grijalva mean anything to you?" Lou asked. 
"How could it? I'm not sure I can even pronounce it." 
"Well, Colonel Ramos declares himself to be a military attaché at the Guatemalan Consulate here. You've got a big shot in the Guatemalan Army rummaging through your apartment. This is even worse than I thought. Those guys are killers." 
"Jesus." I was still coming to grips with the horrifying fact he'd been in my apartment, in my only refuge. "Think I could bring charges against him?" 
"Well, let's consider this a minute. Probably no prints, no credible witness. You'd have a damned hard time proving anything." He sighed. "Truth is, I doubt you could even get a restraining order, given what little you've got to work with." 
"Yes, honey, we're leaving. This very minute." 
The dense forest was all about us, and I'd just carry her into it if I had to. In the coming storm, nobody was going to find . . . 
That's when I noticed I was beginning to have gastric rumblings. Damn. Never, ever eat "native" food, no matter what the social pressure. That damned "visit" . . . 
When I turned to ask Marcelina if she would help me get Sarah outside, I noticed she'd been joined by the two women, both still in their white shifts, who'd just fed me the sickly sweet atole . And more women were behind them, all staring at me, expectant, as though wondering what I would do. 
Maybe it was my imagination, or the dizziness that was abruptly growing around me, but it also seemed they'd painted their faces with streaks of white, designs like the men in the square were putting on. 
"She's going to be all right," Marcelina was saying. "But we have to get you back now. You'll need your strength." 
I needed it then. My stomach had really begun to gyrate, and my vision had started growing colored. I noticed I was sweating, even though the day was cooling down. Actually, I felt as though I was about to pass out. What had those women fed me? 
› Sario, you got any food? 
› You won’t miss a couple more meals, Your Excellency. 
Van had gone back to Mayor McCheese but he was in the same channel. 
“What a dick. You’re looking pretty buff, though, dude.” 
Van didn’t look so good. He looked like you could knock him over with a stiff breeze and he had a phlegmy, weak quality to his speech. 
› hey kong everything ok? 
› everything’s fine just had to go kick some ass. 
“How’s the traffic, Van?” 
“Down 25 percent from this morning,” he said. There were a bunch of nodes whose connections routed through them. Presumably most of these were home or commercial customers is places where the power was still on and the phone company’s COs were still alive. 
Every once in a while, Felix would wiretap the connections to see if he could find a person who had news of the wide world. Almost all of it was automated traffic, though: network backups, status updates. Spam. Lots of spam. 
Van cleared his throat, a painful sound. “About that,” he said. “I think it’s going to hit sooner than that. Felix, I don’t think anyone would notice if we just walked away from here.” 
“Haul ass , young lady—out of bed, on your feet, shit-shower-shave, or I swear to God, I will beat you purple and shove you out the door jaybird naked. Capeesh?” 
The mound beneath the covers groaned and hissed. “You are a terrible father,” it said. “And I never loved you.” The voice was indistinct and muffled by the pillow. 
“Boo hoo,” Arturo said, examining his nails. “You’ll regret that when I’m dead of cancer.” 
“Ten minutes, your rottenness,” he said, and then his breath caught momentarily in his breast as he saw, fleetingly, his ex-wife’s morning expression, not seen these past twelve years, come to life in his daughter’s face. Pouty, pretty, sleepy and guile-less, and it made him realize that his daughter was becoming a woman, growing away from him. She was, and he was not ready for that. He shook it off, patted his razor-burn and turned on his heel. He knew from experience that once roused, the munchkin would be scrounging the kitchen for whatever was handy before dashing out the door, and if he...  on the table before she made her brief appearance. Otherwise he’d have to pry the sugar-cereal out of her hands—and she fought dirty. 
"It would be a good one," she said. We smiled at each other. 
"Where do I go to get my keys?" she said, and pulled out her phone. 
"We'll do it over there, in the secluded spot by the caves. I'll take you in there and set you up, then you do your thing and take the machine around to your friends to get photos of your public key so they can sign it when they get home." 
I raised my voice. "Oh! One more thing! Jesus, I can't believe I forgot this. Delete those photos once you've typed in the keys ! The last thing we want is a Flickr stream full of pictures of all of us conspiring together." 
There was some good-natured, nervous chuckling, then Jolu turned out the light and in the sudden darkness I could see nothing. Gradually, my eyes adjusted and I set off for the cave. Someone was walking behind me. Ange. I turned and smiled at her, and she smiled back, luminous teeth in the dark. 
"Thanks for that," I said. "You were great." 
"You mean what you said about the bag on your head and everything?" 
I looked out at the rain. I hoped we were right, but realistically? “I don’t know,” I said. My chest was aching badly now. “Let’s go back, yeah? I’ve got a car.” 
“And where did this car come from?” 
“I bought it.” 
“Liar.” 
He allowed us to drive back anyway. 
Only a few roads out from Checker’s place I took a right turn and said, “Don’t look now, but we’re being followed.” 
Arthur flicked his eyes to the side mirror. “I don’t see anything,” he said, after a few more streets of watching the tragic comedy that is LA drivers trying to navigate through pounding rain. “How can you tell?” 
“Game theory,” I said. “The white sedan isn’t driving selfishly.” 
“They staked out Checker’s place,” Arthur guessed. “Case we came back.” 
“It’s okay,” I assured him. “They’re not after us; they want us to lead them back to Rio. I can lose them.” I juked the steering wheel to the side and slammed on the gas, shooting through the next intersection just as the light changed. Arthur yelled. In the rearview mirror, an SUV crashed spectacularly into the passenger side of the white sedan, and brakes screeched as three other cars skidded on the wet streets, spinning to a stop and completely blocking the intersection behind us. 
The ceremony was a small one. They had almost run out of special medals to bestow on the living heroes of the siege, and children came last. The only times she saw Trover these days was at a friend’s ceremony. The rest of the time, he was preoccupied with his studies. He was training to be a diplomat. He still had a terrible temper. Apparently this was an asset at the System Trade Union. 
Valentine walked there, but she was just about the only one. Others flew, either in sky-cars or on invisible ground-effect cushions. There were a thousand of them getting their medals today, and she and Trover were placed next to each other in the long queue, which was alphabetical by surname. 
“They should have given you the biggest and first medal, Vale,” Trover said. His hands were in white fists. “You! You won the war! And he knows it!” 
On stage, the general shook hands with another medal-recipient. He was up to the C’s, and Valentine and Trover’s last name started with an X. It would be a while yet. 
They were still looking directly into each other’s eyes. 
“Suppose we say to-morrow?” suggested Dr. Quelton. 
“Thank you!” said Lexy. “I’ll come to-morrow!” 
Captain Grey was enchanted with the idea of Lexy’s spending a week with his sister. He was going, too. Indeed, Lexy felt sure that Mrs. Quelton had wanted him to go there some time ago, and that he had refused simply on her own account. He didn’t like to leave her alone at Mrs. Royce’s, and after her nervous breakdown that afternoon nothing could have induced him to do so. He was anxious about her. He tried, with what he believed was great tact, to find out her plans for the future. He was genuinely troubled by the loneliness and uncertainty of her life. 
Lexy appreciated all this, and she liked the young man very much—perhaps as much as he liked her; but the sympathetic understanding which had promised to develop on the night when they talked together in the firelight had never developed. 
Something had checked it. They were the best of friends, but Captain Grey never again referred to what Lexy had told him about Caroline Enderby, and about her reason for coming to Wyngate; and Lexy said nothing, either. Evidently he thought that it had been a far-fetched, romantic notion of hers, and hoped that she had forgotten all about it. 
The pending migraine notwithstanding, I started feeling better about my tangled feelings regarding Pithica as an organization. I was less sure than ever of the right answer, but if Rio was correct and a right answer might not even exist, then I didn’t have to plunge wholesale after where Dawna’s logic led. At least not right away. 
“Thanks,” I mumbled. I realized something. “You think Pithica’s pretty bad, don’t you?” 
“Yes.” 
“Why?” 
“Cas, the Lord could force us all to peace and righteousness if He wished to. Our world would have no war, no pain. Instead, He gave us free will.” 
Huh. That wasn’t a bad way of looking at it. “But you could argue that Dawna’s using her free will,” I pointed out. “Even if it’s to take away other people’s.” 
“And like all those who use their freedom to harm others, she sins in doing so.” 
“Oh.” I mulled that over. Because Rio was the only religious person I knew, I tended to forget that mass murder wasn’t supposed to be in the playbook. Except...Dawna was doing the exact same thing Rio did: hurting people to make the world a better place. “But what about what you do? I thought—your God...” 
"They were both away and I didn't ask," Rebecca responded anxiously. "Why? Do you think they'd have said no?" 
"Miss Mirandy always says no, doesn't she?" asked Emma Jane. 
"Ye—es; but this afternoon is very special—almost like a Sunday-school concert." 
"Yes," assented Emma Jane, "it is, of course; with your name on the board, and our pointing to your flag, and our elergant dialogue, and all that." 
The afternoon was one succession of solid triumphs for everybody concerned. There were no real failures at all, no tears, no parents ashamed of their offspring. Miss Dearborn heard many admiring remarks passed upon her ability, and wondered whether they belonged to her or partly, at least, to Rebecca. The child had no more to do than several others, but she was somehow in the foreground. It transpired afterwards at various village entertainments that Rebecca couldn't be kept in the background; it positively refused to hold her. Her worst enemy could not have called her pushing. She was ready and willing and never shy; but she sought for no chances of display and was, indeed, remarkably lacking in self-consciousness, as well as eager to bring others into whatever fun or entertainment there was. 
“So, here’s a thought. What if we can alert everyone they’re stealing from that the money isn’t going where they think it is? Then they slam the lids on the revenue streams. And we can potentially send a hundred thousand security alerts at once with the click of a button. What do you think? Is it doable?” 
Checker took a moment to answer. Arthur was frowning and still rubbing his temple; I couldn’t read Rio any more than usual, but I got the impression he was thinking very intently. Their opinions didn’t matter, however—for sheer plausibility, I needed a computer expert’s assessment. 
“Potentially,” Checker said at last. “Pulling it off isn’t as easy as you make it sound, especially if all the different fronts funnel money to them in different ways, but maybe we can build algorithms to sort those into rough categories of attack—” 
“The sample space isn’t large on a computational level,” I reminded him. 
“True. We won’t need to worry much about efficiency or scalability. Quick and dirty will do the job; the question is whether we have enough commonality here to make ‘quick and dirty’ work.” 
Rebecca threw off her hat and put her hand to her heart, as she always did in moments of intense excitement. After a moment's silence she said: "Let me go in alone; I want to talk to her; I want to thank her; I feel as if I could make her hear and feel and understand!" 
Jane went back into the kitchen to the inexorable tasks that death has no power, even for a day, to blot from existence. He can stalk through dwelling after dwelling, leaving despair and desolation behind him, but the table must be laid, the dishes washed, the beds made, by somebody. 
Ten minutes later Rebecca came out from the Great Presence looking white and spent, but chastened and glorified. She sat in the quiet doorway, shaded from the little Riverboro world by the overhanging elms. A wide sense of thankfulness and peace possessed her, as she looked at the autumn landscape, listened to the rumble of a wagon on the bridge, and heard the call of the river as it dashed to the sea. She put up her hand softly and touched first the shining brass knocker and then the red bricks, glowing in the October sun. 
Or maybe the hall lights had come back on. I only know I felt a set of arms encircle me. 
"Come," Alex Goddard was saying as he lifted me up. "They're ready." 
W hen we reached the parking lot, several more Army thugs were waiting, grown-ups now, khaki shirts and dense mustaches, the regulation G-2 sunglasses even though it was still dark, with 9mm automatics in holsters at their belt. I took one look at them and I think I blacked out. Steve and I were about to "disappear," and possibly Sarah too. Probably in another hour or two. My tattered mind finally just slipped away. 
Soon afterward, I sensed myself being transported in a large vehicle, and after that I was being carried, up, up, as though I were floating into the coming dawn. When I re­gained consciousness, I realized I was standing in a rain­storm near a small stone building. A dozen Army men were huddled inside, shielding their cigarettes from the blowing rain while they guarded a row of olive-green bassinets. Around me, censers were spewing copal smoke into the soggy air. 
"She thinks you need someone to take care of you so you don't starve." 
"As far as women are concerned, that's like the same difference, man." 
"You can pick them up when you've logged out for the night. I'll leave them sitting on my desk." 
The conversation over, Ziggy wanders back into his office and closes the door so he can maintain the illusion that he's about to be obeyed. Ray watches him go, contemplating the door for several seconds in silence. 
Ray winks at the rat. "Lunch, you say? Sure, let's go."   The first thing everyone learns about Paraclete is that there is no actual, locate-able, stroll through-able, 
smell-the-flower variety garden on the Garden Level. There are no hydroponic growth vats, no specialized lighting, no actual fauna which might be even vaguely confused with explosions of greenery and/or vegetable caliber edibles. 
This somewhat flagrant misnomer might be considered an obscene breach of language usage if one neglected to take into account two critical facts: first, that the ship's schematics actually labeled it as Gamma Level, since it happened to fit comfortably between Beta Level and Delta Level; and second, that Gamma Level was the primary repository of paying passengers— folks who either should not be expected to carry a working knowledge of the Greek alphabet in their neural networks, or who considered such a sterile reference system to be vaguely chilling and gauche and hopelessly neo-militaristic. 
Her voice broke. 
“No more!” she said. “It is finished. But—attend, Miss Moran! There must be no scandal. No one is to know that she is not here.” 
She turned and walked out of the room. Lexy sank into a chair. 
“I don’t care!” she said to herself. 
“She’s wrong—I know it! It’s not what she thinks. Caroline’s not like that. Something dreadful has happened!” 
It seemed perfectly natural to be awakened in the morning by Mrs. Enderby’s hand on her shoulder, and to look up into Mrs. Enderby’s flashing black eyes. Lexy had gone to sleep dominated by the thought of that masterful woman. She vaguely remembered having dreamed of her, and when she opened her eyes—there she was. 
“Get up!” said Mrs. Enderby in a low voice. “Go into Caroline’s room. When Annie comes with the breakfast tray, take it from her at the door. I have told her that Caroline is ill with a headache. You understand?” 
“Yes, Mrs. Enderby,” answered Lexy. 
She sprang out of bed and began to dress, filled with an unreasoning sense of haste. It wasn’t a dream, then—it was true. Caroline had gone, and there was something Lexy must do for her. She could not have explained what this something was, but it oppressed and worried her. She could not rid herself of the feeling that she was not being loyal to Caroline. 
"We are not selling for our own benefit," said Rebecca confidentially. "My friend who is holding the horse at the gate is the daughter of a very rich blacksmith, and doesn't need any money. I am poor, but I live with my aunts in a brick house, and of course they wouldn't like me to be a peddler. We are trying to get a premium for some friends of ours." 
Rebecca had never thought of alluding to the circumstances with her previous customers, but unexpectedly she found herself describing Mr. Simpson, Mrs. Simpson, and the Simpson family; their poverty, their joyless life, and their abject need of a banquet lamp to brighten their existence. 
"You needn't argue that point," laughed the man, as he stood up to get a glimpse of the "rich blacksmith's daughter" at the gate. "I can see that they ought to have it if they want it, and especially if you want them to have it. I've known what it was myself to do without a banquet lamp. Now give me the circular, and let's do some figuring. How much do the Simpsons lack at this moment?" 
He dropped something into a drawer and nudged it shut with his hip. “By the sink.” 
I ripped some paper towels off the roll and went back out to mop up the wine, feeling his eyes on my back. 
A minute later, he came back with another glass of wine, giving it to me with a big smile. Good old Simon. I wandered around the room, pretend- ing to be interested in the view from the front windows. With my back turned toward him I poured half the glass out into one of the dead plants on his windowsill, saying as I did it, “What you were saying before. You actually have a connection? I mean, for explo- sives?” 
“I know all kinds of people. But enough politics for one night. 
Come sit down, get comfortable. Let’s listen to some music.” 
I plopped beside him on the couch and sent instructions to my face: smile, dammit. 
“Like that wine, huh?” He nodded at the half-empty glass. 
“Yeah. Gotta slow down, though. It’s going to my head.” 
“You’ve been under so much stress. It’s good to relax.” He reached out as if to touch my cheek and I flinched. “Hey, sorry.” 
It was my turn to sigh. "He doesn't have one connection. He has hundreds. Interlinked microwave relays to the other labs. A satellite connection. The wirelines -- three of them." I started to think. "OK, I could cut the main fiber to the Institute, actually cut it, you know, with scissors, just in case he's in the routers there. Then I could call up our wireless suppliers and terminate our accounts. They'd take 24 hours to process the order, and, wait, no -- They'd want to verify the disconnect order with a certificate-signed message, and for that I'd have to clear my workspace. That's another 24 hours, minimum. And then --" 
"Then the whole Institute would be crippled and offline, though no more than we are now, I suppose, and BIGMAC --" 
"BIGMAC would probably tune his phased-array receiver to get into someone else's wireless link at that point." I shrugged. "Sorry. We build for six nines of uptime around here." 
She gave me a smile that didn't reach her eyes. "You do good work, Odell." 
This is apparently not a well-guarded secret, this magical anti-nausea bullet. Becker keeps a whole bottle in his pocket, which means that there have probably been announcements and reminders and memos and other sorts of shipwide reminders available to all and sundry who happen to read such things. Which is also exactly why Ray doesn't know anything about it. Thus, not so much a wuss as an idiot, which he thinks is probably a step up on the ladder of human consciousness. 
He would like to wait for the pills to kick in, to settle the fierce pitch and yaw of his stomach, but Becker in impatient. The Security Chief would really like to have something resembling a suspect for Micah's murder before they reach New Holyoke. 
"Tell me how much you admire my investigative acumen and stunning intellect," Ray says. 
Becker lifts an eyebrow. "I did not come down here to give you a pep talk." 
"You're right. You came down so I could hand you a murder suspect. " 
The eyebrow inches higher. "Go ahead." 
> Oki -- then I'll take YOU. Saturday. Dolores Park. Illegal open air concert. Be there or be a dodecahedron. 
> Wait what? 
> Don't you even read Xnet? It's all over the place. You ever hear of the Speedwhores? 
I nearly choked. That was Trudy Doo's band -- as in Trudy Doo, the woman who had paid me and Jolu to update the indienet code. 
> Yeah I've heard of them. 
> They're putting on a huge show and they've got like fifty bands signed to play the bill, going to set up on the tennis courts and bring out their own amp trucks and rock out all night. 
I felt like I'd been living under a rock. How had I missed that? There was an anarchist...  passed on the way to school that had a poster of an old revolutionary named Emma Goldman with the caption "If I can't dance, I don't want to be a part of your revolution." I'd been spending all my energies on figuring out how to use the Xnet to organize dedicated fighters so they could jam the DHS, but this was so much cooler. A big concert -- I had no idea how to do one of those, but I was glad someone did. 
Nothing worked. Nothing would ever work again. Everything fell apart. Her hearing aids were of that same magical stuff as everything else from the revolution, so it followed that they would die too. 
Mata must have known this. That’s probably what she was saying. If Valentine concentrated, she could recall her mother’s voice and have it say the words. 
“It’s OK, Mata,” she said. She knew she was shouting. “It’s OK.” 
Mata cried and she cried, but she put herself to sleep as soon as she could, and once she thought Trover and Mata were sleeping, she took out her small wizard-light and made her way down the silent stairs, into the silent streets. 
She walked cautiously toward the wizard’s flat. She was deaf, but it felt like she was a little blind too. Without her hearing, she couldn’t see right, or balance right. She thought about a life without ears. She’d probably have to go back to digging, since you couldn’t haul bodies without a partner and you needed to be able to talk, even if it was only to say alley- oop . 
<Falstaff> if $$ then tutoring else ((^ex- ploitation) 
<Shad> hee . She's a friend. But funny b/c we were just working on conditional statements. 
<Shad> she got it when I gave this example: if privacy then freedom else tyranny. 
<Falstaff> that's not code, that's a bumper sticker <Kadabra> if slogan then t-shirt <Wheeze> I'm on it. Have t-shirts, will silkscreen . 
<Shad> his shirts are AWESOME <Gargle> Srsly? Could use some for a promo- tion. DM me, Wheeze. 
<callmecheese> Wasn't there a reddit thread on if-then jokes? 
<Falstaff> N00000 <inky> how many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? 
<ferret> grooooaaaaaaan not that again. 
<callmecheese> **light bulb**. It's two words . 
<Wheeze> I'll bite, how many? 
<inky> Zero. It's a hardware problem. HAHAHA <Wheeze> hahaha groan. Full disclosure, I don't code and the only hardware I fix is small motors and manual typewriters. I'm not really a computer guy. 
<ferret> No problem, if Shad's friend then welcome . 
Lee-Daniel cleared his throat. "Meatloaf," he said, "all respect, but well, this won't work. Our radios operate on line-of-sight. If we can see it, we can shoot it at half a gigabit a second -- slower if there are a lot of leaves and stuff in the way. If we can't see it, we can't shoot it. Zero bits per second. We need high-ground, we need perimeter, otherwise we're just wasting your time." 
Meatloaf shook his head. "Radio radiates. I can't see the cell-tower, but I can still reach it with my phone." 
"That's dumb radio," Lee-Daniel said. "If we want to have a conversation and we're out of sight of one another, we can communicate, but only if we shout. That's fine for us, but it's not so good for the people between us, right, Mortimer?" 
Mortimer, who'd been through one or two (hundred) of these demos before, took his cue from outside the doorway, hitting it with the loudhailer dialed up about half way. "Right," he said. 
"That's how dumb radio works. You had a bunch of bands that you could communicate in -- cellular, TV, AM, FM, cops, air-traffic, whatever -- and rules and licenses for each, governing how loud everyone gets to shout." Taking their cues, the CogRads started to gabble all at once, in stripes through the ranked chairs, saying "AM AM AM" or "TV TV TV" or "cellular cellular cellular." 
“And what if the cops see you on the phone? This car ain’t registered. Can’t get stopped.” 
I felt a brief moment of pleasure at Arthur’s law-breaking—my paranoia was rubbing off on him; excellent—but it was eclipsed by frustration. “We’re not going to get stopped. I’ve never been pulled over for that.” 
“You want to take the risk?” 
“You want to take the risk we get attacked again?” 
A muscle in Arthur’s jaw twitched. “Speakerphone, then,” he said, and went around to the passenger side. 
“Fine,” I groused. 
I dialed Checker as soon as I figured out which way I was going and manhandled the clunky old car onto the freeway. Arthur kept glancing over at the speedometer, but for once he didn’t tell me to slow down—probably too worried about his friend. 
Checker picked up on the first ring. “Arthur?” 
“It’s Cas.” 
“Cas! Are you okay? Arthur said—” 
“I’m fine,” I cut in. “Arthur gave you the lowdown on what’s going on?” 
“Uh, yeah. And holy crap. I’m buying gold as we speak.” 
“Hopefully it won’t get that far. Have you found anything?” 
Nothing. That is very weird, indeed. 
It's all hand signals from this point, coordinating their advance toward the gash in the rock, getting Kluge and Hanfland's attention to indicate the squad is going in. Everyone has their visors down, knows to watch him, 
because they've been through this a thousand times before. Weapon at the ready, Ray advances. Waeltz and Pelton tuck in behind him, then Holcomb, then Whitfield bringing up the rear. 
Ray plunges into the darkness. There's an initial burst of adrenaline, enough to make his hands want to tremble, but he just squeezes his subby that much more tightly, careful to keep his finger poised over the trigger. Then it's a quick advance, keeping his steps high and regular so he doesn't make scuffing noises. The path is a steep and angular ascent, stabbing into the rock on a curve, like the blade of a scimitar. It's dark, but not so dark that his visor can't amplify the reflected firelight from up ahead, so he relies on his night vision where he can reference the tactical display of his formation. The floor is smooth, chiseled flat by centuries of wind, and covered in sand grit. 
“You’d think they’d want the digital copy,” I said. 
“Think it’s a security thing,” Arthur answered. “Probably don’t want it digital until it’s behind enough sets of closed doors. Too easy for someone to copy it.” 
The afternoon we put on the final touches, Halliday and I sat out on the deck of the safe house, staring at the neatly completed proof stacked between us. I was drinking tequila out of the bottle and appreciating the fact that my various recent injuries had all mostly healed. She had a glass of ginger ale. 
“When’s the switchover happening?” I asked. I was exhausted, but something felt...good about finishing this. Complete. Like it had been a job that meant something. 
“Xiaohu’s coming by tomorrow morning, and I’ll be passing it off to him.” Halliday smiled. “He was giddy as a schoolboy when he told me they’d cleared him to take custody. I think a promotion might be in his future.” 
“He seems like a good guy,” I said. 
“Yes. And he reminds me...” She stood and wandered over to the railing. “He reminds me of why we do this. Of how amazing this is, what we are a part of, what we can build. He reminds me to love it. Sometime between the kidnapping and the government custody I had lost that.” 
“Were you very small, then?” 
I didn’t answer. 
“When did you move to LA?” 
“A few years ago. Can we stop now?” 
“From where?” 
“I’ve lived a bunch of places. They all run together after a while.” 
“Like where?” 
“Other cities,” I scoffed. “Who remembers names?” 
“Cas,” said Checker. His voice was choked. “Listen to yourself. You can’t remember.” 
“Stupid stuff,” I agreed. 
“No. Anything. Your memory’s gone.” 
I almost laughed, the emotion edged with brittleness. “No, it isn’t.” Of all the things that were fucking me up in the head right now—that was ridiculous. I’d know if my memory was gone. 
It was Checker’s turn not to say anything. 
“I remember things!” The words tore out of me, almost rising to hysteria, Checker’s thrown gauntlet hanging between us. “I remember plenty of things! It’s perfectly normal for the details to fade. That’s not something wrong with me; that’s normal; that’s—I bet you don’t remember anything from when you were five. See?” 
“My kindergarten teacher’s name was Mrs. Farrow,” said Checker. “The first day of class I tried to convince the other kids to join me in mass rebellion against authority and ended up sitting in the corner for the rest of the day. I also tried eating a yellow crayon. It was not as tasty as it looked.” 
“Just the general location.” 
“That’ll have to do. Okay, given that he doesn’t know me, we’ll have to work out a way to make sure he trusts me. So you’ll have to let him know — “ “I can’t. His phone is busted, I told you. So is his ankle.” 
“Right.” Nikko chewed his knuckle, thinking it over “He’ll be scared and hurt and it’ll be dark. There’s no way around it, I’ll have to go with you. I wish I knew first aid. Do you?” 
“Sorry. I never even joined boy scouts. What will you tell your aunt?” 
“I’ll have to think of something.” And that made my head hurt. Not only was Monica going to be suspicious, so would any- one monitoring her phone, which wasn’t unlikely. I never talked her into using a secure messaging app. I was usually keeping secrets from her, not with her. “She knows I’m upset about Wil- son. I’ll tell her I’m going out of town with a friend to chill out. 
Just for one night. A sleepover. Only she knows I don’t have friends who do sleepovers.” 
“What about Marcella?” His face suddenly looked flat and his voice became a robotic drone. “I’m having a sleepover party. 
